Google 


This  is  a  digital  copy  of  a  book  that  was  preserved  for  generations  on  Hbrary  shelves  before  it  was  carefully  scanned  by  Google  as  part  of  a  project 

to  make  the  world's  books  discoverable  online. 

It  has  survived  long  enough  for  the  copyright  to  expire  and  the  book  to  enter  the  public  domain.  A  public  domain  book  is  one  that  was  never  subject 

to  copyright  or  whose  legal  copyright  term  has  expired.  Whether  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  may  vary  country  to  country.  Public  domain  books 

are  our  gateways  to  the  past,  representing  a  wealth  of  history,  culture  and  knowledge  that's  often  difficult  to  discover. 

Marks,  notations  and  other  maiginalia  present  in  the  original  volume  will  appear  in  this  file  -  a  reminder  of  this  book's  long  journey  from  the 

publisher  to  a  library  and  finally  to  you. 

Usage  guidelines 

Google  is  proud  to  partner  with  libraries  to  digitize  public  domain  materials  and  make  them  widely  accessible.  Public  domain  books  belong  to  the 
public  and  we  are  merely  their  custodians.  Nevertheless,  this  work  is  expensive,  so  in  order  to  keep  providing  this  resource,  we  liave  taken  steps  to 
prevent  abuse  by  commercial  parties,  including  placing  technical  restrictions  on  automated  querying. 
We  also  ask  that  you: 

+  Make  non-commercial  use  of  the  files  We  designed  Google  Book  Search  for  use  by  individuals,  and  we  request  that  you  use  these  files  for 
personal,  non-commercial  purposes. 

+  Refrain  fivm  automated  querying  Do  not  send  automated  queries  of  any  sort  to  Google's  system:  If  you  are  conducting  research  on  machine 
translation,  optical  character  recognition  or  other  areas  where  access  to  a  large  amount  of  text  is  helpful,  please  contact  us.  We  encourage  the 
use  of  public  domain  materials  for  these  purposes  and  may  be  able  to  help. 

+  Maintain  attributionTht  GoogXt  "watermark"  you  see  on  each  file  is  essential  for  informing  people  about  this  project  and  helping  them  find 
additional  materials  through  Google  Book  Search.  Please  do  not  remove  it. 

+  Keep  it  legal  Whatever  your  use,  remember  that  you  are  responsible  for  ensuring  that  what  you  are  doing  is  legal.  Do  not  assume  that  just 
because  we  believe  a  book  is  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  the  United  States,  that  the  work  is  also  in  the  public  domain  for  users  in  other 
countries.  Whether  a  book  is  still  in  copyright  varies  from  country  to  country,  and  we  can't  offer  guidance  on  whether  any  specific  use  of 
any  specific  book  is  allowed.  Please  do  not  assume  that  a  book's  appearance  in  Google  Book  Search  means  it  can  be  used  in  any  manner 
anywhere  in  the  world.  Copyright  infringement  liabili^  can  be  quite  severe. 

About  Google  Book  Search 

Google's  mission  is  to  organize  the  world's  information  and  to  make  it  universally  accessible  and  useful.   Google  Book  Search  helps  readers 
discover  the  world's  books  while  helping  authors  and  publishers  reach  new  audiences.  You  can  search  through  the  full  text  of  this  book  on  the  web 

at|http  :  //books  .  google  .  com/| 


Fred  Sowton  Scott 

i^yiiiiifiiiiiilii]iiMiiliWiiffl«illlitlliMII^ 


1 


DA, 

i  ^  ^  -^ 


JUNIUS: 


IKCLUDINO 

LETTERS   BY   THE    SAME   WEITER. 
UNDER   OTHER   SIGNATURES; 

TO  WHICH  ARE  ADDED 

HIS  CONFIDENTIAL  CORRESPONDENCE  WITH  MR.  WILKES, 
AND  HIS  PRIVATE  LETTERS  TO  MR.  H.  S.  WOODFALL. 


BY 


JOHN    WADE, 

▲DTHOB  OF  '*A  CHROyOLOOT  OF  BRITISH  HISTOBT,** 
"THB  CABINET  LAWrKR,"  ETC. 


VOL.    IL 


LONDON :    GEORGE  BELL  &  SONS,  YORK  STREET, 

COVENT  GARDEN. 

1890. 


LONDON  : 

PRINrSD  BY   WILLIAM  CLOWES  AND  SONS,    LIMITED, 
StXilSOUD  ST&BSI  AXO  CHAKOTa  CftOSS. 


\   • 


■  \     — * 


PREFACE. 


The  present  Volume  comprises  all  the  Letters  known  to  be 
written  by  the  Author  of  Junius  under  other  signatures,  or 
which  have  hitherto  been  ascribed  to  him.  Several  of  these 
are  now  considered  spurious;  but  it  has  been  deemed  ad 
visable  to  republish  every  letter  given  in  Woodfall's  edition, 
rather  than  exercise  any  discretion  in  expunging  what  may 
have  acquired  interest  with  many,  and,  with  some,  is  still 
matter  of  controversy. 

The  Private  Letters  of  Junius,  addressed  to  Woodfall, 
as  printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  are  valuable  not  only  for 
the  light  they  throw  on  the  progress  of  this  remarkable 
sorrespondence,  but  also  for  the  glimpses  they  afford  of  the 
movements  and  character  of  their  long  inscrutable  author. 
The  terseness  and  force  with  which  these  brief  notes  are 
penned,  are  strikingly  significant  of  the  energy  and  resolute 
purpose  of  the  writer. 

The  Letters  of  Junius  to  Wilkes  merit  careful  perusal. 
They  are  recommended  by  clearness  and  vigour  of  style,  as 
well  as  excellent  sense  and  a  sound  appreciation  of  constitu- 
tional principles.  The  replies  of  Wilkes  place  him  in  a 
favourable  light,  and  evince  a  power  of  reasoning  and  a  regard 
for  enlightened  principles  of  government,  greater  than  might 
have  been  inferred  from  his  giddy  and  dissolute  career. 

The  Miscellaneous  Letters  possess  several  claims  to 
notice.  In  them  may  be  discerned  the  first  agitation  of  public 
questions  which  Junius  subsequently  discussed  more  effectively, 
and  in  more  elaborate  and  polished  diction.  They  are  not 
all,  however,  believed  to  be  from  the  pen  of  Junius ;  and  in  the 
notes  it  has  been  attempted  to  distinguish  such  as  are  indis- 
putably his  from  those  which  cannot  be  affiliated  with  certainty. 

Newspaper  correspondence  had  an  authority  and  interest  in 
the  time  of  Junius  which  it  no  longer  possesses,  and  the 
Miscellaneous  Letters  derive  a  value  from  the  illustration 
they  afford  of  this  antecedent  phase  ot  journalism  At  this 
period  existed  none  of  those  leading  articles  or  elaborate 
commentaries  on  public  questions,  which  now  occupy  so 
prominent  a  place  in  our  daily  papers.  The  correspondents  of 
the  press  were  then  the  only  writers  of  political  communica- 
tions which  bore  the  character  of  leaders ;  and,  as  reports  of 
the  debates  were  not  permitted,  members  of  either  house 
BufEered  equally  with  tne  people  in  possessing  no  common 
Gooxmel  by  which  the  one  could  learn,  and  the  other  convey 


iV  PREFACE. 

their  sentiments.  In  consequence  of  this  restrictive  S3rstem» 
the  correspondence  of  newspapers  formed  the  most  talented 
portion  of  their  contents,  influential  men  of  all  parties 
adopting  this  medium  as  the  best  for  giving  publicity  to  their 
opinions. 

In  the  Appendix,  with  other  elucidatory  papers,  will  be 
found  the  letters  privately  addressed  to  the  Earl  of  Chatham 
by  Junius,  and  rocentlv  brought  to  light  in  the  Chatham 
Correspondence. 

But  the  subject  in  which  the  reader  is  likely  to  feel  most 
interested  is  the  identification  of  the  author.  The  editor  has 
pursued  this  inquiry  to  considerable  length,  under  favourable 
auspices;  he  has  not  only  been  aided  hj  the  labours  of 
numerous  preceding  investigators,  but  has  conversed  on  the 
subject  with  several  distinguished  living  individuals  who  were 
intimately  acquainted  with  the  remarkable  person  whom  it 
seems  now  fair  to  acknowledge  as  Junius.  He  has  also  had 
the  advantage  of  receiving  much  valuable  information  from 
the  members  and  descendants  of  Sir  Philip's  family.  From 
the  courtesy  and  readiness  with  which  his  inquiries  have 
been  met,  the  impression  appears  to  have  become  general, 
even  among  those  most  nearly  concerned,  that  all  motives 
for  concealment  have  ceased,  and  that  the  time  has  arrived 
when  a  full  disclosure  may  be  made,  without  the  compromise 
of  any  feeling,  interest,  or  obligation. 

In  our  Preface  to  the  first  volume,  we  promised  to  include, 
in  the  second,  an  Analysis  drawn  up  by  Sir  Harris  Nicolas ; 
it  therefore  becomes  necessary  to  explain  why  this  is  now 
omitted.  It  has  been  found,  after  a  careful  and  minute 
examination  of  a  mass  of  papers,  greater  in  bulk  than  even 
the  letters  they  are  intended  to  illustrate,  that  no  deductions 
are  made,  no  conclusions  drawn.  They  are  mere  materials, 
without  any  direct  tendency,  and  could  only  be  useful,  or  in  the 
least  degree  interesting,  in  the  event  of  further  investigation, 
should  any  one  still  think  the  question  not  finally  disposed  of. 

Sir  Harris,  some  time  before  his  death,  told  the  Publisher, 
that  he  was  engaged  in  posting  up,  ledger  fashion,  the  proa 
and  cons  in  the  Junius  Papers  as  given  in  Woodfall's  edition, 
convinced  that  this  was  the  likeliest  mode  of  eurriving  at  a 
satisfactoiy  result.  These  postings,  however,  were  never  com- 
pleted, and  no  denouement  is  attempted.  Indeed,  Sir  Harrif 
tonfessed  that  1:  i  had  not  been  able  to  arrive  at  any  conclo 


PREFACE*  V 

-non,  but  tbac  less  objection  seemed  to  exist  against  thd 
claims  of  Sir  Philip  Francis  than  those  of  any  other  can-* 
didate.     He  found,  like  some  other  astute  critics,  so  happily 
bantered  in  Byron's  stanzas  *,  that  it  was  easier  to  prove  that 
nobody  wrote  Junius,  than  to  find  a  writer  against  whom  there 
was  no  plausible  objection.    At  that  time  Sir  Harris  was  not  in 
possession  of  some  of  the  evidence  which  has  since  transpired. 
Bearing  in  mind  that  Archbishop  Whately  has  ingeniously 
(and,  were  there  any  doubt  on  the  subject,  we  might  say  success- 
fully) proved  that  Napoleon  never  existed;  we  cannot  wonder 
at  the  scepticism  of  those  who,  having  once  taken  their  stand, 
are  determined  that  Sir  Philip  Francis  shall  not  be  the  author. 
The  Analysis,  we  may  here  observe,  was  to  have  appeared 
in  several  successive  papers  in  the  Athenaum;  and  some  of  the 
preliminary  remarks  were  there  printed,  Feb.  10,  1844,  but 
were  never  continued.     These,  which  form  the  introductory 
portion  of  our  manuscript,  together  with  a  few  extracts  from 
the  analysis  itself,  are  annexed,  that  the  reader  may  have  a  fair 
sample  of  Sir  Harris's  mode  of  treatment.   We  have  not  room 
for  more,  and  even  if  we  had,  should  hesitate  to  load  our  volume 
with  what  can  have  but  little  attraction  for  the  general  reader. 
The  Index,  however,  has  derived  considerable  advantage  from 
Sir  Harris's  labours,  and  is  in  consequence  much  enlarged ;  the 
research  occasioned  by  the  operation  of  blending  his  materials 
with  our  own,  has  led  us  to  discover  the  curious  fact,  that  in 
the  previous  edition  of  Junius,  published  by  Woodfall,  the 
name  of  Sir  Philip  Francis  is  entirely  excluded  from  the 
Index,  which  is  the  more  remarkable,  as  in  other  respects  it 
is  singularly  minute. 

It  shows  how  completely  the  author  had  succeeded  in 
blinding  all  parties,  preserving  himself  entirely  free  even 
from  suspicion  up  to  the  comparatively  recent  period  of 
1812;  not  only  from  the  general  public,  but  his  latest  and 
ablest  commentator  (Mason),  and  his  earliest  and  most 
confidential  friend,  the  first  printer  and  publisher  of  the 
lietters. 

1864. 

*  Vision  of  Judgment,  cauto  74,  &(v 


a  t 


CONTENTS. 


PUBPACB  to  the  Second  Volome    t 

CONTENTS    Ti— •xu 

ANALYSIS  by  Sir  Harris  Nicolas    •»« 

ADYERTISEMBNT  to  WoodM's  First  Edition,  omitted  in  the  second^xzii 

THE  HISTORY  AND  DISCOVERY  OF  JUNIUS xi 

PRIVATE  LETTERS  addressed  to  Mr.  H.  S.  Wood&ll,  by  Junius...       1 

y  Middlesex  Petition  to  the  King note,      2 

l/Gity  of  London  Petition  to  the  King 7 

Lord  Holland's  Letter  to  the  Lord  Mayor 9 

Mr.  Beckford's  Answer  to  the  foregoing 9 

Letter  to  a  Liveiyman,  being  a  further  Answer  to 

Lord  Holland's  Letter 9 

-  Lord  Holland's  Letter  to  Mr.  H.  S.  Woed&ll  in  yindication  of  himself 
against  the  charge  in  the  City  Petition,  of  being  "  the  public  de- 

&alter  of  unaccounted  millions'*    10 

Observations  on  the  Accounts  of  the  Paymaster-General II 

Lord  Holland's  Memorial  to  the  Lords  of  the  Treasury  to  haye  longer 

time  to  make  up  his  Accounts  as  Paymaster- General    IS 

/The  King's  Warrant  to  stay  process  against  Lord  Holland  for  six 

months    13 

History  of  the  dispute  between  the  Bight  Hon.  George  Onslow  (after- 
wards Lord  Onslow),  and  Mr.  Home  (afterwards  Mr.  Tooke) 14 

Remonstrance  of  the  City  of  Westminster    note^     29 

Letter  to  Lord  North,  signed  Brutus note,     86 

Conclusion  of  a  Letter  from  Mr.  Wilkes  to  Mr.  Home note,     88 

Letter  from  Junius  to  Mr.  David  Garrick  41 

Mr.  Wilkes's  Reply  to  Mr.  Home,  and  compliments  to  the  genius  of 

Ghurick    note,     42 

Letter  from  Garrick  to  H.  S.  Wood&ll note,     46 

Case  of  Meares  and  Shepley  against  Ansell  note,     50 

PRIVATE  CORRESPONDENCE  ov  Junius  with  Mr.  Wiless 63 

Copy  of  the  Resolutions  of  the  supporters  of  the  Bill  of  Rights,  note,     71 
Extracts  from  Mr.  Wilkes's  Letter  to  the  Livery  of  London,  in  de- 
fence of  himself  from  an  attack  made  on  him  by  Mr.  Towna- 

hend    note,     97 

Extract  from  Messrs.  Wilkes  and  Bull's  Address  to  the  Livery  on 
employing  the  military  under  the  pretence  of  assisting  the  civil 

power note,     97 

m^C^LLANEOUS  LETTERS  ASCRIBED  TO  JUNIUS : 

(jBTTBB  I.  Poplicola  on  the  conduct  of  Lord  Chatham    108 

Mr.  Pitt's  (Lord  Chatham's)  Letter  in  explanation  of  his  and 

Lord  Temple's  resignation note.  111 

Poplicola  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  in  defence 
of  his  last  Letter,  and  in  answer  to  Sir  W.  Draper  (by  mis- 
take called  C.  D.  instead  of  W.  D.)  114 

Mr.  Wilkes's  attack  upon  Lord  Chatham  note,  114 

ilir  W.  Draper's  defence  of  him note^  110 


ttftn. 

lU. 


IT. 
T, 


VI. 

▼n. 


▼m. 

IX. 


X. 
XI. 

XII. 

XIII. 
XIT. 


XV. 

XVI. 
XVII. 


KVIII. 

XIX. 

XX. 

XXL 


COMTJBM'Itl.  VH 

PAOX 

Anti-Sejann^  jun.,  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiter 
on  Lord  OUatham's  forming  part  of  an  administration  under 
the  Earl  of  Bute 118 

A  Faithful  Monitor  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser  on 
Lord  To  wnshend  and  his  brother  the  Hon.  Charles  Townshend  1 241 

Correggio  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser. — Ironical 
portraits  of  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  Mr.  Conway,  Lord  Cam- 
den, Lord  Northington,  Lord  Shelbume,  T.  Townshend, 
the  Marquis  of  Granby,  Lord  Barrington,  Lord  Chatham, 
Sir  G.  Elliott,  and  Governor  Johnstone,  fictitiously  attri- 
buted to  the  pencil  of  Lord  Townshend    121 

Moderator  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser. — The  sub- 
ject Lord  Townshend 125 

Grand  Council  on  the  affitirs  of  Ireland. — Ironical  discussion 
of  instructions  to  be  given  Lord  Townshend,  just  then  ap- 
pointed Lord  Lieutenant  of  Ireland  128 

Mr.  Burke  charged  with  being  the  author  of  the  foregoing 
satire  note,  184 

To  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser  in  support  of  the  pre- 
tended instructions  to  Lord  Townshend    135 

Y.  Z.  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser. — Discussion,  in 
the  form  of  a  debate,  of  the  King's  speech  on  opening  the 
session  of  parliament,  in  Nov.  1767 137 

Extract  from  the  speech note,  140 

To  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser  on  the  subject  of 
American  politics  145 

Downright  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser. — Attack 
on  Lord  Chatham  as  the  cause  of  the  increase  of  the  Na- 
tional Debt 148 

To  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser. — Commission  for 
holding  the  privy  seal,  during  the  illness  of  Lord  Chatham, 
attacked 149 

Mnemon  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  on  the  grant 
of  a  part  of  the  Duke  of  Portland's  estate  to  Sir  J.  Lowther. . .  1 53 

Mnemon  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser. — The  same 
subject  continued    156 

Lord  North's  defence  of  the  grant  in  question  note,  159 

Anti-van-Teague  in  answer  to  Mnemon 160 

Anti-Stuart  in  reply  to  Anti-van-Teague  161 

C.  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser. — The  Ministry 
attacked  for  suiFering  Mr.  Wilkes  to  be  at  large  with  an 
outlawry  hanging  over  him    163 

Q.  in  the  Comer  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser  in 
support  of  the  foregoing 167 

C.  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser  on  the  subject  of 
nullum  tempus    168 

To  the  Duke  of  Grafton  on  his  taking  Miss  Parsons  to  the 
Opera 171 

Bifrons  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser  on  the  Duke 
of  Grafton's  breach  of  promise  to  the  Duke  of  Portland  re- 
specting his  estate 179 


I' Ml  OONTBim;. 

LISTER  PA<a 

XTii.    G.  to  the  Piinter  of  the  Public  Advertiser  ca  the  eonmiiaioik 

for  opening  Parliament  177 

XXIII.    Valerius  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Adyertiaer  in  defence  of 

"the  Duke  of  Portland's  case" 178 

xxiY.    Fiat  Justitia  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Adyertiser. — Attack 
on  Lord  Barrington's  letter,  thanking  the  Guards  for  their 

conduct  in  St.  CFeoi^e's  Fields   182 

Lord  Barrington's  letter  and  account  of  the  riot    note^  182 

XXT.     Pomona  to  Master  Harry  in  Black-boy  Alley,  on  his  duplicity. . .  184 

XXYI.    G.  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser. — The  new  commis- 
sion of  the  board  of  trade  ridiculed   186 

XXYII.   Insomnis  to  Mr.  Woodfall  in  defence  of  the  board 187 

XXYiu.  C.  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser. — Beply  to  In- 
somnis      189 

XXIX.  To  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser  on  the  subject  of 

American  politics    191 

XXX.  L.  L.  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser. — Sir  Je£fery 

Amherst's  dismission  from  his  government  of  Virginia  con- 
sidered      195 

zxxi.    To  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser. — American  politict 

further  discussed,  and  Mr.  Grenville's  character  defended...  197 
A  letter  from  that  gentleman  to  Mr.  Knox  on  the  subject  of 

America  note^  200 

zxxii.  Lucius  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser. — Sir  Jeffery 

Amherst's  dismission 201 

xxxiii.  Atdcus  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser  on  the  general 

state  of  the  country 202 

xxxiY.  Valerius  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  attributing 

the  dismission  of  Sir  J.  Amherst  to  the  influence  of  Lord  Bute  206 
XXXY.    Lucius  to  the  Earl  of  Hillsborough,  on  Sir  JeiFery  Amherst's 

dismission    210 

ZXXYi.  Gleophas  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser  in  defence  of 

the  Earl  of  Hillsborough    218 

XXXYii.  Lucius  to  the  Earl  of  Hillsborough,  in  reply  to  Gleophas 216 

Lord  Hillsborough's  letter  to  Sir  JeSery  Amherst,  and  A.  B.'s 

answer  notes,  216^  217 

KXXYiiL  L.  L.  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser  in  support  of  Sir 

Jeflfery  Amherst 220 

xxxix.  Lucius  to  the  Karl  of  Hillsborough. — The  same  subject  con- 
tinued   221 

XL.      Gleophas  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  in  answer  to 

Lucius *. 222 

TLL     Lucius  to  the  Earl  of  Hillsborough. — ^Attack  upon  his  lordship 

continued    225 

XUi.     The  same  to  the  same — 229 

Gonclusion  of   Scrutator's    letter   in   answer  to  the  fore- 
going   note,  281 

Gorrector,  in  reply  to  some  answers  given  to  Lucius's  pre- 
ceding letter   note,  283 

X&zn.    Lucius  to  the  Earl  of  Hillsborough  on  the  subject  of  Sir 

Jeffery  Amherst 231 


ZIJ7. 
XLY, 

XLVL 


XLTn. 
XLTIIL 

ZLIZ. 

L. 

U. 

LIL 

LIIL 

LIT. 

LY. 

LYI. 

LYU. 

LYm. 

LDL 

LZ. 
hXl, 


izn. 
Lzm. 


CONTEKTB.  )X 

PA  OS 

The  same  to  this  same 2S6 

Atticus  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  AdTertiser  on  the  state  of 
the  nation  238 

Temponim  Felicitas  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser. — 
Ironical  defence  of  Lord  Hillsborough  in  the  a&ir  of  Sir 
JeSery  Amherst 241 

Brutus  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  in  reply  to  an 
attack  on  the  letter  of  Atticufl   242. 

Atticus  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  giving  a  de- 
scription  of  the  members  who  formed  the  administration, 
together  with  the  then  state  of  the  country  243 

Why  ?  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser  on  the  appoint- 
ment of  Lord  Bochford  to  be  Secretary  for  the  Northern 
department 250 

Brutus  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser  in  support  of 
the  letters  of  Atticus 252 

Atticus  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser. — The  subject 
of  his  last  continued   254 

Junius  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser. — Observations 
on  the  conduct  of  the  Duke  of  Grafton  and  Lord  Oamden 
towards  Mr.  Wilkes 257 

To  the  Right.  Hon.  Q-.  Ghrenville,  on  American  affiurs 259 

Character  of  Mr.  Grenville ;  an  anecdote  respecting  Florida  and 
Louisiana,  by  Mr.  Knox,  formerly  his  private  secretary. .  .note,  261 

Junius  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  in  consequence 
of  the  monody  on  his  supposed  death  by  Poetikastos   262 

The  monody,  and  Silurus's  description  of  Junius  note,  263 

Your  real  Friend,  to  the  Marquis  of  Gh»nby,  to  induce  his  vote 
against  administration,  on  the  question  of  seating  Colonel 
Luttrell  for  Middlesex   ^ 265 

Simplex  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser. — An  attack 
on  the  Duke  of  Oiafton  and  Sir  William  Blackstone  for  the 
paidon  of  M'Quirk 267 

Amiens  Curiae  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser  in  de- 
fence of  the  Letters  of  Junius 269 

Jonia  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser. — A  pretended 
female  challenge  to  Junius,  and  in  support  of  the  decision 
of  the  House  of  Commons  on  the  Middlesex  election  272 

Junius  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  assuming  «  unia 
to  be  his  wife 275 

Junius  disavows,  though  not  directly,  the  last  letter note,  275 

Augur  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  reprobating 
the  abusive  language  of  the  ministerial  writers 279 

A.  B.  to  the  Duke  of  Qrafton,  printed  by  the  desire  of,  though 
not  written  by,  Junius,  on  certain  justices  of  the  peace  being 
made  for  the  county  of  Leicester  at  the  request  of  Lord 
Denbigh 277 

Messala  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser  in  reply  to 
the  foregoinff 280 

X.  X.  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  with  a  letter 
from  Mr.  OnibWto  Mr.  Wilkes    28] 


LXXI. 


LXZII. 


X  CONTEMTB. 

unftt  TA<m 

Another  letter  of  Mr.  Onslow  to  Mr.  Wilkes note,  282 

LXIT.    X.  X.  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser  in  answer  to 

Modestus  on  the  subject  of  General  Gansel's  rescue 284 

LXY.     T.  Y.  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  being  a  reply 

to  the  preceding  letter 284 

LXYL    X.  X.  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser  in  rejoinder  ...  287 
LZYii.  Modestus  to  Junius,  in  support  of  the  officers  concerned  in 

General  Ghinsers  rescue 289 

LXYIIL  X.  X.  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser  on  the  subject 

of  the  foregoing  292 

LXiz.    Domitian  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser. — Sketches 

of  the  characters  of  several  members  of  Administration 292 

Moderatus  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  on  the  dis- 
pute which  occurred  with  the  sheriffii  of  London  previous  to 
presenting  the  city  address,  &c 296 

Further  particulars  of  this  dispute,  with  Lord  Weymouth's 
letters note,  296 

Q.  in  the  Comer  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser, 
wherein  Miss  Bradshaw  is  charged  with  having  sold  the 
place  of  surveyor  of  the  pines  in  America 299 

A  Labourer  in  the  same  Cause,  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public 
Advertiser,  in  dissent  to  a  recommendation  that  Mr.  Wilkes 
should  stand  forward  as  a  candidate  for  the  city  of  London 
on  the  death  of  Alderman  Beckford  801 

Mr.  Alderman  Townshend's  trial  of  the  validity  of  the  land- 
tax  Act,  on  the  pretence  that  the  intrusion  of  Mr.  Luttrell 
had  vitiated  the  parliament    note,  802 

Mr.  Grey  Cooper  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  in 
answer  to  Q.  in  the  Comer    804 

Q.  in  the  Comer  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  in 
reply 805 

Q.  in  the  Comer  to  Thomas  Bradshaw,  Esq.,  on  the  subject  of 
his  former  letters 800 

A  Labourer  in  the  same  Cause  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public 
Advertiser  in  support  of  his  previous  opinion 307 

Testis  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  being  remarks 
on  a  declaration  of  Lord  Barrington,  reflecting  upon  all  the 
general  officers  of  the  army    810 

Testiculus  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Adyertiser. — An 
ironical  defence  of  his  lordship  811 

Domitian  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser. — A  review 
of  the  political  conduct  of  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  and  imita- 
tion of  his  oratorical  powers  812 

Chapter  of  Facts,  or  Materials  for  History    816 

Second  Chapter  of  Facts,  Ac 318 

Phalaris  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Adwrtiser,  on  Lord 
Mansdeid  laying  a  copy  of  his  charge,  in  Wood&lFs  case, 
on  the  table  of  the  House  of  Lords   320 

Nerva's  defence  of  his  lordship  note,  820 

ItXXXiiL  Domitian  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  on  the  re-ap- 
pointment of  Lord  Sandwich  to  be  minister  for  foreign  affidri  821 


LXXIII. 

LXXIY. 

LXXY. 

LXXYI. 
LXXYII. 

LXXYIU. 
LZXIX. 


LXXX. 
LXXXI. 
LXXXII. 


CXntTEVTS.  *j[i 

ucxziy.  Phalazis' card  to  Sir 827 

xjuxv.  Intelligence  Extraordinary. — On  Lord  Sandwich's  removal  to 
the  Admiralty,  and  Whately's  conduct  after  the  death  of 

G.  GrenviUe 828 

LXXZYi.  Anti-W.  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  AdvertiBer  in  defence  of 

Junius 820 

Lxzzyn.  Domitian  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser. — Eeview  of 
the  conduct  of  the  Princess  Dowager  of  Wales,  and  observar 
tions  on  the  difierent  members  who  composed  the  ministry...  831 
IiXXZTiii.  A  Member  of  one  House,  &c,  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public 
Advertiser  on  the  convention  with  Spain  respecting  Falk- 
land's Islands 837 

Further  account  of  this  occurrence note,  837 

Maserano's  declaration,  and  the  Earl  of  Eochford's  accept- 
ance  note,  887 

Lord  Chatham's  queries  respecting  the  declaration,  and  Lord 

Mansfield's  answer note,  839 

Address  of  thanks  carried  in  both  houses  of  parliament... note,  339 
Protest  against  the  address  of  the  House  of  Lords,  signed  by 

nineteen  peers note,  339-344 

Lxxzix.  A.  B.  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  upon  Lord 

Gower's  election  to  be  a  Knight  of  the  Garter 341 

xo.      Yindex  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser  upon  the 

Spanish  declaration 346 

XOi,      Yindex  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser  upon  the  same  847 
xoii.     An  Englishman,  &c.,  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser 
on  the  subject  of  the  power  of  the  House  of  Commons  to 

imprison  during  pleasure 848 

Detail  of  the  origin  of  this  dispute  by  the  resistance  of  Wheble 

and  Miller  note,  848 

The  Lord  Mayor's  speech  in  the  House  of  Commons,  and  his 

committal  to  the  Tower note,  849 

xcaiil.    G.  W.'s  address  to  the  Lord  Mayor,  &c.,  on  the  proclamation 

for  taking  the  printers  into  custody   853 

Mr.  Morris's  speech  to  the  Bill  of  Rights  Society  on  this  sub- 
ject   note,  855 

XOIT.    G.  W.'s  second  address  to  the  Lord  Mayor,  &c.,  on  the  privi- 
lege of  parliunent  856 

Lord  Chief  Justice  Holt's  opinion  upon  the  subjects  of  the 

foregoing  letters note,  861 

ZOT.     A  Whig  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser  upon  the  same 

subjects  ,.  861 

Minutes  of  the  House  of  Commons  in  respect  to  their  mes- 
senger   note,  866 

The  messenger  indicted  in  defiance  of  the  resolution  of  the 

House,  and  a  true  bill  found  against  him  note,  867 

A  noli  prosequi  entered,  and  the  speech  of  Mr.  Adair  against 

it note,  867 

Mr.  Attorney  General's  speech  in  answer note,  372 

Mr.  Adair's  reply  to  the  Attorney  General,  and  noli  prosequi 
gnotcd   ...••••••••••....• note,  878 


Xii*  CONTEMTB 

UBTTEB  PAGE 

ZOYI.    Henriciu  to  the  Earl  of  Sufiblk  on  his  joining  admioif  tration. . .  868 

ZOYII.    HenricQS  to  the  Earl  of  Suffolk  on  the  same 379 

XCYin.  Domitian's  answer  to  a  card  calling  upon  him  to  bring  for\iiard 

the  affiiir  of  Mine's  patent 881 

XdX.    An  Innocent  Reader  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser, 

being  an  account  of  the  Emperor  Valentinian    883 

0.       Anti-Fox  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser. — An  attack 

on  the  late  Mr.  Fox   384 

CI.       A.  B.  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser  in  support  of 

Junius  on  the  bailment  of  Byre 385 

One  of  the  Bail  and  Anti-Junius  in  defence  of  Lord  Mans- 
field  note,  385 

dl.  Cumbriensis  to  the  Duke  of  Cumberland. — Ironical  congratu- 
lation on  his  Marriage  with  Colonel  Luttrell's  sister,  Mrs. 
Horton    387 

Oin.     Anti-Belial  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  requesting 

that  Lord  Mansfield  might  be  left  to  the  care  of  Junius  ...  389 

OIT.     Juniper  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser  in  support  of 

Junius 890 

OY.      Veteran  to  Lord  Barrington  on  Mr.  Chamier  being  made 

deputy  secretary-at-war 392 

OTL  Anti-Belial  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser  in  defence 
of  the  doctrine  maintained  by  Junius,  in  Letter  lxyui.,  to 
Lord  Mansfield  895 

OYIL    Veteran  to  Lord  Barrington  on  his  political  tergiversation 396 

OYni.    Veteran  to  Lord  Barrington  on  his  insult  to  the  army  and  to 

General  Harvey 899 

Oix.     Veteran  to  Lord  Barrington. — General  observations  on  his 

political  conduct 402 

ox.  Veteran  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser  on  the  re- 
moval of  Messrs.  D'Oyly  and  Francis  firom  the  War  Office...  405 

oxi.     Scotus  to  Lord  Barrington. — Ironical  defence  of  the  Scotch...  406 

oxii.     Arthur  Tell-truth  to  the  lords  of  the  Admiralty  on  the  ap- 
pointment of  Mr.  Bradshaw  to  be  a  member  of  that  board...  407 

oxm.    Nemesis  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  which  the 

author  entitled  Memoirs  of  Lord  Barrington 409 

APPENDIX. 

Private  Letters  of  Junius  to  Lord  Chatham • 418 

Letters  of  Colonel  Barr4 417 

Duel  between  Mr.  Hastings  and  Sir  Philip  Francis 419 

Letter  of  Sergeant  Bough  to  E.  H.  Barker   421 

IxDix  423-458 


JUNIUS    AND    HIS    WORKS 
Bt  Sib  Habbis  Nicsolas. 

(hr  the  general  question  of  the  authorship  of  Junius's  Letters  my  views  coin* 
dde  with  those  so  ably  expressed  in  the  Edinburgh  Review,  that  though  the 
happiness  of  mankind  may  not  be  materially  interested  in  its  determination, 
and  though  it  may  not  inyolve  any  great  or  scientific  truths,  yet,  as  a  point 
of  Hterary  history,  it  ranks  very  high ;  and  the  feet  of  the  community  having 
long  taken  so  extraordinary  an  interest  in  the  subject,  as  to  have  given  birth 
to  at  least  a  hundred  volumes  or  pamphlets,  besides  innumerable  essays  and 
letters  in  magazines  or  newspapers,  and  that  a  great  and  universal  curiosity 
IS  still  felt  to  know  who  wrote  the  Letters,  seem  quite  sufficient  to  justify  a 
good  deal  of  pains  in  the  research,  and  satis&ction  on  the  discovery.  Per- 
haps we  might  add,  that  the  obscurity  in  which  the  point  is  still  involved, 
seems  a  reflection  upon  the  critical  acumen  and  literary  industry  of  those  who 
have  investigated  the  subject ;  for  it  is  almost  incredible  that  means  should 
not  exist  for  removing  the  veil  in  which  Junius  has  for  nearly  eighty  years 
been  shrouded.  It  has  long  been  our  conviction  that  the  materials  for  ascer^ 
taining  who  Junius  really  was  have  not  been  so  carefully  nor  so  impartially 
examined  as  they  might  be ;  and  that  a  mass  of  &cts  could  be  obtained  from 
the  Letters,  which,  when  brought  together  and  classed,  would  be  found  of 
infinite  value  to  future  investigators  of  this  perplexing  question.  Though  the 
Letters  have  been  repeatedly  read  by  all  writers  on  the  subject,  two  mistakes 
seem  to  have  been  committed.  First  (and  which  is  fatal  to  almost  any 
inquiry),  the  Letters  have  been  critically  examined  by  various  persons,  not 
to  ascertain  teko  the  author  might  have  been,  but  to  establish  some  j^recon- 
ceived  theory;  and  thus  the  same  passages  have  been  cited  as  conclusive 
proofs  of  totally  difierent  &cts.  Secondly,  the  passages  and  statements  chiefly 
relied  upon  are  such  as  Junius  would  naturally  have  used  for  the  mere  pur* 
poses  of  argument  or  illustration, — to  give  greater  force  to  his  attacks,— er 
to  divert  attention  from  himsel£  With  these  objects  he  evidently  feigned 
representations  of  his  own  character,  situation,  and  feelings ;  simulated  dis- 
approbation of  men  and  measures;  attacked  or  defended  individuals,  and 
expressed  opinions  according  as  the  interests  of  his  party  or  his  own  political 
views  dictated,  and  which  accounts  for  the  contradictions  and  inconsistencies 
that  appear  in  some  of  his  writings. 

To  deny  that  Junius  was  a  consummate  actor,  if  even  a  stronger  term 
would  not  be  stiU  more  applicable,  would  be  to  deny  that  he  wrote  from 
political  or  party  motives,  and  that  he  availed  himself  of  the  weapons  which 
then  disgraced  party  war&re.  It  is  not,  therefore,  in  studied  phrases, 
daborate  metaphors,  or  well-turned  periods;  nor  in  the  attacks  upon  or 
piaite  of  individuals,  that  the  author  is  to  be  traced.  These  were  the 
materials  of  his  business — the  tools  of  his  art — and  are,  consequently,  of 
little  other  value  for  his  identity,  than  as  they  afford  evidence  of  his  powers 
of  composition.  But  even  in  this  point  of  view  their  utility  is  materially 
lessened  by  the  immense  labour  with  which  the  Letters  were  written,  and 
by  the  improbability  of  finding  any  other  of  his  compositions  after  that  time 
on  which  so  much  care  was  bestowed.  But  though  great  reliance  should  not 
be  placed  on  those  finished  productions  bearing  the  signature  of  Junius,  they 
MvertheleM  afibrd  some  materials  for  identifying  their  author. 


i^ 


*XlV         ANALYSIS  BY  THE   LATE  SIB  HABB[S  NICOLAS. 

But  Junius's  private  correspondence  with  Woodfall  seems  a  far  safer  gmlt 
for  tracing  him  ;  for  though  he  was  probably  almost  as  desirous  of  conc^si^ 
himself  from  his  publisher  as  from  the  public,  and  may  have  taken  nearly 
equal  pains  to  mystify  both,  yet  those  letters  were  necessarily  of  a  much 
more  personal  nature  than  the  others ;  and  they  consequently  exhibit  many 
peculiarities,  of  thought,  feeling,  temperament,  and  style,  besides  affording 
other  fiusts  of  considerable  importance  for  his  identification. 

Tet  the  difficulty  of  determining  what  passage  or  statement  in  any  of  his 
letters  was  true,  is  so  great,  that  too  much  hesitation  cannot  be  shown  in 
fixing  upon  any  one,  as  being  the  certain  representative  of  a  fact,  unless  it 
be  supported  by  some  corroborating  circumstance.  All  inquirers  into 
Junius's  identity,  must,  we  apprehend,  have  felt  this  difficulty ;  for  we  find 
them  adopting  some  parts  of  the  Letters  as  true,  and  regarding  others  as 
feigned,  though  the  grounds  for  belief  in  the  selected  passages  seem  equally 
uncertain. 

For  these  reasons  a  complete  analytU  of  the  letters  appears  to  be  one  of 
the  most  likely  modes  of  ascertaining  their  author ;  for  it  is  scarcely  possible 
that  some  indications  of  the  man  should  not  be  found  in  the  dissection  of 
4  several  hundred  of  his  letters,  extending  over  nearly  six  years,  and  treating 
not  only  of  all  the  political  and  party  transactions  of  the  period,  but  con- 
taining a  quantity  of  personal  matter  altogether  unprecedented  in  any 
political  writer. 

Hypocrisy  cannot  be  consistent  for  a  long  period  and  under  a  great  variety 
of  circumstances ;  nor  can  any  one,  be  his  skill  what  it  may,  altogether  con- 
ceal the  idiosyncracies  of  his  nature  when  called  into  active  life,  whether  as 
a  speaker  or  an  author.  Though  for  these  reasons  we  should  place  little 
weight  on  the  tests  usually  relied  upon  for  discovering  Junius,  yet  his  public 
as  well  as  his  private  letters  contain  some  minute  peculiarities,  as  well  as 
some  statements,  which  are  deserving  of  attention.  Identity  of  an  anony- 
N  mous  writer  lurks  in  favourite  words;  in  repeated  allusions  to  objects  or 
sentiments  with  which  he  was  familiar  in  early  life,  or  which  became 
habitual  from  professional  avocations ;  to  feelings  inspired  by  an  unconscious 
but  predominant  passion;  in  national  or  provincial  phrases;  in  dates  and 
localities ;  in  accidental  references  to  inconveniences,  personal  or  local,  arising 
out  of  his  immediate  labours,  and  which  fidl  unconsciously  from  the  pen ;  in 
punctuation ;  in  the  use  of  capital  letters ;  and,  indeed  in  those  numerous 
small  but  marked  peculiarities  by  some  of  which  each  writer  is  distinguished 
from  another,  and  which  are  rarely  attempted  to  be  concealed  or  suppressed, 
because  he  himself  is  usually  unconscious  of  their  existence. 

Another  equally  strong,  if  not  stronger  peculiarity  is  Jumdvfriting ;  and 
we  think  it  as  impossible  for  a  person  to  disguise  his  writing  in  an  effectual 
manner,  as  to  change  his  features  or  his  voice,  unless,  indeed,  he  be  a  pro- 
fessed mimic  or  ventriloquist  Most  of  Junius's  notes  to  Mr.  Woodfidl, 
together  with  the  corrected  copy  of  Wheble's  edition  of  the  Letters,  from 
which  the  first  authorized  edition  was  printed,  are  fortunately  preserved. 

It  is  here  proper  to  remark  that  so  far  from  having  any  theory  of  our  cwn 
on  Junius's  identity,  we  are  as  entirely  free  firom  bias  on  the  subject^  and 
confess  ourselves  as  profoundly  ignorant  of  the  authorship  of  those  celebrated 
Letters,  as  if,  instead  of  having  for  many  years  constantly  had  the  question 
«  onr  mind,  and  having  read,  we  believe,  nearly  everything  that  has  beeo 


ABALTBIS  B7  THE  LATE  SIB  HABRIS  NICOLAS.         *Kf 

written  on  tbe  point,  we  had  never  bestowed  a  thought  on  the  matter.  We 
hare  indeed  a  strong  impression  that  Junius  was  not  any  one  of  tbe  nume* 
loiis  persons  heretofore  so  confidently  brought  forward*;  and  we  may  at  the 
conclusion  of  these  papers,  perhaps,  "sum  up"  the  evidence  arising  out  of 
oar  analysis  of  the  Letters,  with  the  view  of  showing  what  facts  must,  in 
our  judgment,  meet  in  Junius.  Our  readers  will  have  the  goodness  to  bear 
in  mind  that  our  sole  object  is  to  bring  together  materials  not  hitherto 
collected,  and  parts  of  which  only  have  lutherto  been  used,  and  then  only  to 
support  some  preconceived  opinion.  Having,  on  the  contrary,  no  opinion  to 
establish,  we  view  the  Letters,  and  the  other  circumstances  which  will  be 
mentioned,  as  a  mass  of  raw  material,  ^hall  use  them  with  the  hope  of 
enabling  other  inquirers  to  obtain  from  them  some  certain  result  However 
startling  the  idea  may  be  to  the  many  ^^ndo-diecoverera  of  Junius  on  both 
sides  the  Atlantic,  we  found  much  of  the  claim  of  our  observations  to  atten- 
tion in  the  very  &ct  of  our  having  no  Junius  qf  our  own,  and  on  our 
iiiMi^  in  each  qf  theirs. 

The  analysis  of  Junius's  Letters  will  consist  of 
i.  The  dates  and  signatures  to  all  the  letters  in  Wood&irs  edition  in  3  vols. 

8vo,  1814  (now  re-published  in  2  vols.),  arrahged  in  chronological  order. 
2.  Extracts  from,  or  refer^ces  to,  letters  containing  indications  of — 

Personal  dislike  to  individuals. 

Personal  approbation  of  individuals. 

Disapprobation  of  public  measures. 

Approbation  of  public  measures. 
t.  Indications  of  intimate  knowledge  of  the  proceedings  of,  or  other  matters 
relating  to— 

The  court, 

The  ministry, 

The  army. 
4.  Collection  of  statements  as  aUegedfcicts,  connected  with  Junius's  identity, 
consisting  of  allusions  to  his  own  taste,  opinions,  proceedings,  pursuits, 
habits,  temper,  age,  movements,  >&c. 
6.  Indications  of  Junius  being,  if  not  a  regular  author,  at  all  events  a  prac 
tised  writer  for  the  press. 

6.  Indications  of  his — 

Dislike  of  certain  professions,  country,  &c. 

7.  Peculiar  words  or  phrases,  metaphors,  style,  &c,  orthography,  &c 

8.  Bemarks  on  the  handwriting  of  Junius. 


Chbovolooioal  List  qfa^l  the  Lbttbbs  attributed  to  Junius,  wiA  the  dates, 
signatures,  and  principal  jKirport,  distinguishing  the  private  from  IM 
published  Lett/trs;  and  r^erring  to  the  volume  and  page  of  Woo^aXCs 
sdition,  wherein  they  occur.  All  the  Letters  were  addressed  "  to  the  Ptinter 
qf,**  or  ''for  the  Public  Advertiser,'*  except  where  otherwise  stated: — 

I. — 1767,  April  28.  "  Poplicola." — A  severe  attack  upon  Lord  Chatham, 
■euaing  him  of  aiming  at  arbitrary  power,  and  charging  him  w'th  having 

*  This  eisav  was  written  in  1S43. 


*XVi         ANALYSIS  BT  THE  LATE   STB  HABBIS  NICOLAS 

"  loerificed  "  his  brother  in-law,  Lord  Temple,  and  of  promoting  his  ''ranooiw 
ous  enemy/'  the  Duke  of  Bedford.  Lord  Camden,  the  Chancellor,  is  called 
''  an  apostate  lawyer,  weak  enough  to  betray  the  laws  of  his  country." — 
(di.  461.) 

IL—1767,  May  28.  "  Poplicola."— A  reply  to  Sir  William  Draper'i 
defence  of  Lord  Chatham,  and  supporting  thexharges  against  him. — (ii.  458.) 

IIL — 1767,  June  24.  "  Anti  Sejanus,  jun." — An  attack  on  Lord  Bute, 
and  on  Lord  Chatham,  for  his  '*  base  apostacy."  "  I  will  not  censujpe  him 
for  the  Avarice  of  a  pension,  nor  the  melancholy  ambition  of  a  title" — "  but  to 
become  the  stalking-horse  of  a  stallion  " — [Lord  Bute,  then  suspected  of  con- 
nection with  the  Princess  of  Wales]  which  is  again  alluded  to  in  Letter  V . — 
(ii.  465.) 

IV.— 1767,  Aug.  25.  St.  James>  Coffee  House.  "  A  Faithful  Monitor." 
— Censuring  the  appointment  of  Lord  Townshend  as  Lord  Lieutenant  of 
Ireland,  and  of  his  brother,  the  Hon.  Charles  Townshend,  as  Chancellor  of  the 
Exchequer. — "  I  have  been  some  time  in  the  country." — "  I  am  not  a  stranger 
to  this  2>ar  nohilefratrunu  I  have  served  under  the  one,  and  have  been  forty 
times  promised  to  be  served  by  the  other.**  Calls  Lord  Townshend  a  boaster 
without  spirit,  and  alludes  to  his  afiairs  with  Lord  [quser.  Albemarle]  and 

Mr. ,  **  in  which  he  set  out  with  unnecessary  insolence,  and  ended  with 

shameful  tameness." — (ii.  468.) 

v.— 1767,  Sept  16.  "  Correggio."— On  Lord  Townshend's  talente  in  ca 
ricatnring,  and  suggesting  subjects  for  his  pencil  from  the  ministry,  vis.  the 
Duke  of  (j^rafton,  Mr.  Conway,  Lord  Camden,  Lord  Chatham,  Lord  Shelbume, 
Lord  Northington,  &c.     Several  Icicunai  occur  in  this  letter. — (ii.  470.) 

VI. — 1767,  Oct.  12.  "  Moderator." — In  reference  to  a  controversy  respect- 
ing  Lord  Townshend's  courage,  and  supporting  the  attack  on  that  nobleman. 
— (ii.  475.) 

VII. — 1 767,  Oct.  22.  (No  signature.) — "  Grand  Council  upon  the  aSain 
of  Ireland,  after  eleven  adjournments."  A  satirical  paper  on  the  instructions 
to  be  given  to  Lord  Townshend,  as  Lord  Lieutenant  of  Ireland.  The  speakers 
are.  Lord  Northington,  President  of  the  Coimcil;  Lord  Camden,  Chancellor; 
Conway  and  Lord  Shelbume,  Secretaries  of  State ;  and  Lord  Townshend 
himself,  whose  supposed  want  of  personal  courage  is  frequently  alluded  to, 
and  he  is  made  to  say,  ''  I  will  consult  Lord  George  Sackville,  as  he  loves  to 
be  in  the  rear  as  well  as  myself."  This  paper,  which  was  imputed  to  Burke 
was  reprinted  in  the  PoltUccU  Reffistert  where  the  coarse  expressions  given 
to  Lord  Northington  occur  at  length.  The  Chancellor  observes  of  the  Irish, 
that  it  "  is  their  claim  and  birthright  to  talk  without  meaning,  and  to  live 
withoutlaw."— (ii.  483.) 

VIII. — 1767,  Oct  81.  (No  signature.) — Noticing  another  version  of  the 
Grand  Coimcil,  which  had  appeared  for  the  purpose  of  attacking  Burke, 
offering  to  produce  proofs  which  will  gall  "  a  Correspondent's  patrons  "  that 
Lord  Townshend  could  not  obtain  any  instructions,  and  pointedly  alluding 
to  a  conversation  between  Lord  Townshend  and  one  of  the  Secretaries  on  the 
iabject-(ii.  493.) 

IX.— 1767,  Dec.  5.  *'Y.  Z."— Sending  a  copy  of  Mr.  Burke's  speech 
tgainst  the  Ministry,  but  which  the  printer  was  siraid  to  insert,  who  apolo- 
gised to  his  "  valuable  correspondent  C."  for  the  omission. — (ii.  498.) 

X. — 1767,  Dec  19.  (No  signature). — Censuring  the  conduct  of  the  Ame- 
*^2an  Colonies,  and  the  repeal  of  the  Stamp  Act ;  and  on  the  state  of  th« 


ANALYSIS   BY  THE  LATE   SIB  HABRIS  NICOLAS.         ^t^vil 

country.     Lord  Ohatbam  is  called  a  lunatic,  the  Ministry  abused,  and  Mr. 
deoige  Qrenville  highly  extolled.— >(ii.  611.) 

XI.— 1767,  Dec  22.  '*  Downright"— A  short  attack  on  Lord  Chatham 
ii  answer  to  Mr.  Macaroni.— (ii.  517.) 

XII.— 1768,  Jan.  2.  "  To  Lord  Chatham"  (without  signature.)  Lately 
printed  in  vol.  iii.  p.  802  of  the  Chatham  Correspondence. — This  remarkable 
letter  (which  is  not  in  Wood&ll's  edition  of  Junius)  commences  thus :  "  If  I 
were  to  give  way  to  the  sentiments  of  respect  and  veneration  which  I  have 
always  entertained  for  your  character,  or  to  the  warmth  of  my  attachment  U 
your  person,  I  should  write  a  longer  letter,"  &c.  After  saying  he  has  "  an 
opportunity  of  knowing  something,"  and  that  the  Earl  may  rely  on  his  vera- 
ci^,  he  states  that  during  the  Karl's  absence  from  the  administration,  not 
one  of  the  ministers  had  adhered  to  him  with  firmness,  or  supported  his  prin- 
ciples in  the  King's  service — points  out  the  conduct  of  his  colleagues,  and 
informs  him  of  the  plan  of  the  Duke  of  Grafton  to  subvert  him  in  the  admi- 
nistration. The  conclusion  is  in  these  words:  *'  My  Lord,  the  man  who  pre- 
sumes to  give  your  Lordship  these  hints,  admires  your  character  without 
servility,  and  is  convinced  that  if  this  country  can  be  saved,  it  must  be  saved 
by  Lord  Chatham's  spirit,  by  Lord  Chatham's  abilities." 

XIII. — 1768,  Feb.  16.  (No  signature.) — Censuring  the  Ministry,  and 
especially  the  appointment  of  persons  of  no  rank  as  Commissioners  of  the 
Privy  Seal  for  six  weeks,  apparently  during  Lord  Chatham's  illness.  In  this 
letter  Junius  shows  deep  knowledge  of  the  madUnery  of  the  constitution,  and 
speaks  with  some  respect  of  Lord  Chatham  himsell — (iii.  1.) 

XIY. — 1768,  Feb.  24.  '*  Mnemon." — Describes  the  English  character  as 
**  somewhat  phlegmatic  "  and  patient  under  aggression,  and  applies  the  &ct 
to  Sir  James  Lowther  having  obtained  a  grant  of  part  of  the  Duke  of  Port- 
land's estate,  '*  on  the  absurd  and  tyrannical  principle,  that  no  length  of  pos- 
session secures  against  a  claim  of  the  Crown."  Calls  Sir  George  SaviUe,  who 
brought  in  a  bill  on  the  subject,  **  one  of  the  ablest,  most  virtuous,  and  most 
temperate  men  in  the  kingdom." — (iii.  7.) 

XV. — 1768,  March  4.  **  Mnemon." — An  eloquent  letter  on  the  danger  and 
injustice  of  the  maxim  "ntUlum  iempus  oceurrU  Re^i'*;  calls  Sir  George 
Saville ''  a  superior  genius,  a  great  light  of  the  age,"  and  attacks  the  Ministry 
for  their  conduct  on  the  subject. — (iii.  18.) 

XVI. — 1768,  March  24.  "Anti  Stuart." — Also  on  the  nullum  tenipus 
maxim,  in  answer  to  a  letter  signed  "  Anti  van  Teague,"  who  had  defended 
the  grant  to  Sir  James  Lowther.  That  signature  seems  to  indicate  that  Junius 
was  supposed  to  be  an  Irishman,  and  Mr.  Burke.  Junius  signs  **  Anti 
Stuart,"  in  reference  to  John  Stuart,  Earl  of  Bute,  whose  daughter  Sir  James 
Lowther  had  married.  He  then  attacks  the  pvhlic  character  of  the  Duke  of 
Qrafton,  the  Prime  Minister,  and  says  he  had  not  meddled  with  his  private 
eharacter,  which  he  left  for  the  Duke  to  earth  in,  whenever  he  is  hard  run, 
"according  to  the  laudable  example"  of  Lord  North. — (iii  22.) 

XVIL— 1768,  April  5.  "  C."- Censures  the  conduct  of  the  Ministiy  in 
respect  to  the  proceedings  at  and  after  Wilkes's  election  for  Middlesex.  Wilkei 
himself  is,  however,  severely  treated,  as  "  a  man  of  most  in£eimous  character 
in  private  life,"  "without  a  single  qualification,  either  moral  or  political;" 
"overwhelmed  with  debts,  a  convict  and  an  outlaw ;"  who  "  had  wantonly 
and  treasonably  attacked"  the  King,  whs  is  spoken  of  in  very  respectful 
(crms. — (iii.  27.) 


*XVIU       ANALYSIS   B7  THE  LATE   SIB  HABBIS  NICOLAS. 

XVIII— 1768,  April  5.  "Q  in  the  Comer/'—On  the  same  subjeefc 
Suggesto  that  the  ministers  tolerated  Wilkes's  conduct,  in  allowing  him  U 
return  to  Bngland  and  remain  at  large  notwithstanding  his  outlawry,  with 
the  object  of  terrifying  Lord  Bute,  by  producing  their  tribune  once  more 
upon  the  stage. — (iii.  82.) 

XIX.— 1768,  April  12.  ^*  C." — Again  on  the  maxim  "  Nullum  Umpu$ 
occvLrrit  Regi."  Attack  on  the  ministry  for  having  acted  upon  it  towardi 
the  Duke  of  Portland.— (iii  84.) 

XX.— 1768,  April  28.  (No  signature).—"  To  the  Duke  of  Grafton."  A 
severe  attack  on  his  public  and  private  character,  and  especially  for  having 
sat  with  his  mistress  (Miss  Plarsons,  afterwards  Lady  Maynard)  publicly  at 
the  Opera. — (iii.  40.) 

XXL— 1768,  April  23.  "  Bifrons."— Charges  the  ministry  with  dupli- 
city as  their  general  characteristic.  Attacks  Lord  Camden.  Adverts  par- 
ticularly to  the  Duke  of  Portland's  case :  says  *'  he  remembers  seeing  Ba»> 
•ambaum,  Saurez  Molina,  and  a  score  of  other  Jesuitical  books  burnt  at  Paris, 
by  the  common  hangman."— ^L  42.) 

XXII 1768,  May  6.  "C." — The  ministry  censured  for  opening  Par- 
liament by  commission. — (iii.  48.) 

XXIIL— 1768,  May  12.  "  Valerius."— On  the  Duke  of  Portland's  case, 
in  reply  to  a  defence  of  the  grant  to  Sir  James  Lowther. — (iii  61.) 

XXIV.- 1768,  May  19.  "  Fiat  Justitia."— Censure  of  Lord  Barrington's 
(Secretary  at  War)  letter,  dated  May  11,  which  he  says  he  was  informed  of 
by  an  officer  of  the  Guards,  conveying  the  King's  approval  of  the  conduct  of 
the  troops  in  suppressing  the  riots  in  St.  George's  Fields,  and  promising  them 
the  protection  of  the  law  and  of  the  War  Office. — (iii.  57.) 

XXV.— 1768,  July  1.  "  Pomona."—"  To  Master  Harry,  in  Black  Boy 
Alley,"  [query  ]  on  his  duplicity  in  promising  a  place  to  Lord 

Bx>ckingham  and  to  another  person.  Proposes  to  show  how  he  can  perform 
his  first  promise,  and  "  yet  continue  as  great  a  rascal  as  you  would  wish  to 
be."  "  You  are  a  mere  boy,  Harry,  notwithstanding  the  down  upon  your 
chin."    (iii.  60.) 

XXVI.— 1768,  July  19.  "  C."— On  the  appointment  of  a  new  Commi** 
sion  of  Trade,  which  is  ridiculed. — ^i.  63.) 

XXVIL— 1768,  July  23.  "  C."— Beply  to  a  letter  signed  '*  Insomnis  " 
(iiL  66),  defending  the  new  Commission  of  Trade,  supporting  his  former 
letter.— (iii.  69.) 

XXVIII.— 1768,  July  80.  (No  signature.)— Attack  on  the  "weak, 
distracted,  worthless  ministry,"  for  their  proceedings  towards  America.  H« 
adverts  to  his  letter  of  the  19th  December,  1767  (No.  X.) — ^repeats  many  of 
his  statements — praises  Mr.  Gkorge  Grenville,  whom  the  ministry  ''  feared 
and  bated,"  because  he  had  the  **  melancholy  triumph  of  having  truly  fore- 
told the  consequences  of  their  own  misconduct,"  and  preferred  the  rebellion  ol 
half  the  empire  to  acknowledging  his  superiority  over  them — says  the  nation 
u  **  on  the  brink  of  a  dreadful  precipice ;  the  question  is  whether  we  shall 
ttill  submit  to  be  guided  by  the  hand  that  hath  driven  us  to  it,  or  whether 
we  shall  follow  the  patriot  voice  [Mr.  Grenville]  which  hath  not  ceased  te 
warn  ns  of  our  dangers,  and  which  would  still  decUre  the  way  to  safety  and 
honour." — (iiL  78.) 

XXIX.— 1768,  August  5.    <<  L.  L."— Expressing  indignation  al  tha  ikt 


ANALYSIS  Bl   THE  LATE  SIB  UABBIS   NICOLAS.  *xix 

il  of  Sip  Jeffery  Amherst  from  his  government  of  Virginia,  wlioed  s«p 
ffees  and  merits  are  strongly  described.  -  (iii.  80.) 

XXX.— 1768,  August  6.  (No  signature.) — A  defence  of  Mr.  Gren* 
tille't  conduct  respecting  the  Stamp  Act,  and  towards  the  American  Colo 
Dies,  in  answer  to  two  writers  in  the  '  Public  Advertiser.'  In  reply  to  vagut 
hints  from  one  of  them,  he  challenges  him  to  "  meet  upon  the  fiur  ground 
of  truth,  and  if  he  finds  one  vulnerable  part  in  Mr.  Grenville's  character. 
let  Mm  fix  his  poisoned  arrow  there."-— (iii.  83.) 

XXXI.— 1768,  August  10.  "Lucius."— In  reply  to  "Virginius/'  « 
writer  who  had  defended  the  appointment  of  Lord  Botetourt,  as  successor 
to  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst  in  Virginia ;  and  exposing  the  motives  and  injustice 
ef  his  dismissal. — (iii.  89.) 

XXXII. — 1768,  August  19.  "  Atticus." — On  the  situation  of  the  coun- 
try. The  decline  of  public  credit  had  induced  him  to  sell  out  of  the  funds, 
and  invest  his  property  in  land ;  and  concluding  with  a  violent  invective 
■gainst  the  ministry.— (iii.  91.) 

XXXIII. — 1768,  August  23.  "  Valerius." — The  ministry  were  ordered 
to  dismiss  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst  for  the  sake  of  giving  Lord  Botetourt,  who 
is  severely  attacked,  the  situation.  "  It  was  proper  not  only  to  affront  living 
merit,  but  to  insult  and  trample  upon  the  sacred  ashes  of  the  dead  ; "  i.e.  the 
late  Duke  of  Cumberland,  "  whose  family  was  the  great  school  of  military 
knowledge,"  and  under  whose  patronage  Amherst  first  appeared.  —  (iii.  98.) 

XXXIV 1768,  August  29.     "  Lucius."— "  To  the  Eari  of  Hillsbo- 

nmgh,**  Secretary  of  State  for  the  Plantations,  imputing  to  him  the  dis- 
missal of  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst,  detailing  every  circumstance  relatiuff  to  it, 
and  giving  reasons  for  its  not  having  been  the  act  of  any  of  his  colleagues. 
He  was  not  dismissed  by  the  adrice  of  Lord  Granby  or  Sir  Edward  Hawke, 
the  latter  of  whom  had  a  pension,  "  nobly  earned  I  confess,  but  not  better 
deserved  than  by  the  labours  which  conquered  America  in  America." 
'*  Military  men  have  a  sense  of  honour  which  your  Lordship  has  no  notion  of." 
Speaking  of  Lord  Chatham,  he  says,  **  his  infirmities  have  forced  him  into 
a  retirement  where,  I  presume,  he  is  ready  to  suffer,  with  a  sullen  submis- 
sion, every  insult  and  disgrace  that  can  be  heaped  upon  a  miserable,  de- 
erepid,  worn-out  old  mata."  He  puts  a  series  of  questions  to  Lord  Hillsbo- 
rough about  Sir  Jeffery's  dismissal,  and  says  "  they  must  and  shall  he  an- 
nni  vUt, 

"  The  W — ^y  Company,"  mentioned  in  a  note  to  this  letter  as  "  the  enter- 
prise/' which  Junius  says  had  ruined  Lord  Botetourt  (Six  Jeffery  Amherst's 
successor),  was  the  Warmly  Company,  for  converting  copper  into  brass,  oi 
which  Lord  Botetourt  was  the  head.  It  is  surprising  that  the  object  of  that 
company  had  not  furnished  Junius  with  a  sarcasm. — (iii.  105.) 

XXXV.— 1768,  Sept  1.  "  Lucius."— '*  To  the  Earl  of  Hillsborough,"  in 
reply  to  a  letter  signed  "  Cleophas,"  explaining  the  fiicts  attending  Sir  Jef- 
fery Amherst's  dismissnl,  which  letter  Lucius  assigns  to  the  Earl  himself,  who 
has,  he  says,  forfeited  all  title  to  respect,  by  the  disingenuous  and  evasive  na* 
ture  of  its  contents.  The  fitcts  of  the  case  are  fully  discussed ;  and  the  Duke 
of  Grafton  is  bitterly  and  warmly  attacked  for  refusing  Sir  Jeffery*s  proposi- 
tions for  recompense.  Lucius  shows  much  information  respecting  contemplated 
irmy  arrangements.— (iii.  116.) 

XXXVI.— 1768,  Sept  6.  «'L.  L."— In  reply  to  a  letter  signed  "Cleo 

a  ♦ 


*XX  ANALYSIS   BY   THE   LATE   SIR  HABRIS   NlCOUkS. 

phas.  Jan.,"  whose  explanation  of  part  of  the  Earl  oi  HilUborongh's  coo 
luct  toward?  Sir  Je£fery  Amherst  is  called  "  an  absolute  iaisitj/'  As  th< 
•writer  of  this  IdUf  speaks  of  **  Lucius"  (certainly  "Junius")  as  '*a  mas- 
terly correspondent,"  and  as  on  the  following  day  **  Lucius"  himself  an* 
9wered  "  Cleophas,  Jun./'  stating  the  same  thing  as  **  L.  L."  had  done,  it 
msiy,  perhaps,  be  doubted  if  it  were  written  by  Junius. — (iii.  124.) 

XXXVII.— 1768,  Sept.  7.  **  Lucius."— "  To  the  Earl  of  Hilbboroogh," 
denying  a  statement  of  ''Cleophas,  Jun.**  in  defence  of  that  minister.—- 
(iii.  126.) 

XXXVIII.  1768,  Sept.  9.  " Lucius."— "  To  the  Earl  of  Hillsborough," 
in  answer  to  another  letter  of  "  Oieophas"  on  the  same  subject.  He  says 
his  "authority  is  indisputable ;"  that  the  Earl's  ostensible  defeLce  differs 
entirely  from  his  private  explanation ;  and  that  he  is  indebted  to  his  for- 
bearance for  not  exposing  it.  "  You  are  sensible  that  the  most  distant  in- 
sinuation of  what  the  defence  is  would  ruin  you  at  once.  But  I  am  a  man  of 
honour,  and  will  neither  take  advantage  of  your  imprudence,  noc  of  your 
situation." — (iii.  133.) 

XXXIX.— 1768,  Sept.  10.  "  Lucius."—"  To  the  Earl  of  Hillsborough," 
in  answer  to  "Scrutator"  on  the  same  subject,  in  which  "Lucius"  made 
a  mistake  in  the  date  of  part  of  the  transaction. — (iii.  139.) 

XL.— 1768,  Sept.  16.  "  Lucius."—"  To  the  Barl  of  Hiilsborwigh,"  ad- 
verting to  the  same  subject,  but  containing  general  charges  of  incapacity, 
especially  in  the  instructions  given  by  the  Earl  to  governors  in  America.  In 
a  postscript  he  collects  all  the  epithets  heaped  upon  him  by  Lord  Hillsbo* 
rough's  partisans,  and  corrects  the  mistake  in  dates  in  his  preceding  letter.— 
(iii.  145.) 

XLL— 1768,  Sept.  20.  " Lucius.'— "  To  the  Barl  of  "Hillsborough." 
Draws  a  parallel  between  the  case  of  Mr.  Ford,  who  had  been  convicted  of 
perjury,  but  escaped  from  an  error  in  the  date  of  the  offence,  and  the  mis- 
take in  the  dates,  above  mentioned.  He  then  answers  a  letter  detracting 
from  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst's  military  services,  ai.d  "  says  the  Earl,  had  left 
Amherst  "  poor  in  every  article  of  which  a  false  fawning  minister  could  de- 
prive him,  but  you  have  left  him  rich  in  the  esteem,  the  love,  and  veneration 
of  his  country,"  and  ** concludes"  the  discussion. — (iii.  151.) 

XLIL— 1768,  Oct.  6.  "  Atticus."—"  Since  my  last  letter  (No.  xxxii.)  was 
Drinted." — On  the  state  of  France  and  this  country,  and  the  effect  on  public 
credit,  in  continuation  of  his  letter  of  19th  August. — (iii.  156.) 

XLIII.— 1768,  Oct.  12,  "  Temponim  Felicitas."— Satirical  praise  of  the 
correspondents  who  had  supported  the  ministry,  and  again  alluding  to  Lord 
Hillsborough  and  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst.— (iii.  160.) 

XLIV.— 1768,  Oct.  16.  "  Brutus."— In  answer  to  "  A  Friend  to 
Public  Credit,"  who  had  replied  to  Atticus's  letter  of  the  6th  October  (No. 
xlii.),  on  the  state  of  Foreign  Af&irs. — (iii.  162.) 

XLV.— 1768,  Oct.  19.  "  Atticus."— On  the  state  of  affairs.  He  an- 
nounces that  Lord  Shelbume's  removal  from  office  had  "  within  these  few 
days  been  absolutely  determined,"  and  unsparingly  examines  the  conduct  of 
the  Duke  of  Grafton  and  the  other  ministers,  seriatim.  When  discussing 
that  of  Lord  Hillsborough,  the  case  of  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst  is  prominently 
mentioned,  and  the  secret  cause  of  his  dismissd  is  stated.  (Vide  Na 
Kxjcriii.)      Praises     Granby's   bivvciTj   generosity,    and    good    humour 


ANALYSIS   B7  THE   LATE   SIB  HARRIS   NICOLAS  «SX1 

Orossly  abases  Lord  Shelborae,  whose  "  life  is  a  satire  on  mankind/'  io 
deserting  a  friend  and  attaching  him  to  a  declared  enemy.  "  Of  Lord 
Chatham,"  who  had  resigned  on  the  16th,  then  supposed  to  be  worn  ont 
with  the  gout,  "  I  had  much  to  say,  but  it  were  inhuman  to  persecute  when 
Proridence  has  marked  out  the  example  to  mankind." — (iii.  165.) 

XLVL-1768,  Oct  26.  "  Whyl"— A  high  eulogium  on  the  Earl  of 
Rochford,  pointing  out  his  peculiar  fitness  for  conducting  a£^s  with  France. 
He  refers  to  the  letter  of  Atticus  (No.  xlv.),  and  says  the  public  reflect 
with  horror  on  the  intelligence  he  had  conminnicated,  and  therefore  asked 
why  Lord  Bochford  was  made  Secretary  of  State,  and  for  the  Northern 
Department?— (iii.  177.) 

XLVIL— 1768,  Oct  27.  *'  Bnitus."— In  answer  to  «  Plain  Truth  and 
Justice,"  who  had  replied  to  his  letter  on  the  decline  of  public  credit,  sup- 
porting his  former  statements  on  that  subject  It  contains  a  compliment  to 
Mr.  Grenville, — "  We  may  retire  to  our  prayers,  for  the  game  is  up." — (iii. 
180.) 

XLVIIL— 1768,  NoY.  14.  "  Atticus."— On  the  state  of  public  affidrs, 
and  reviewing  generally  the  conduct  of  the  administration,  its  weakness  and 
vacillation.  "  For  my  own  part  I  am  not  personally  their  enemy."  He 
particularly  censures  the  Commander-in-Chief,  Lord  Grauby,  who  looks  no 
further  than  to  the  disposal  of  Commissions,  and  suffers  the  army  to  be 
robbed  by  way  of  pension  to  the  noble  disinterested  house  of  Percy,  and 
Sir  Jeffery  Amherst  to  be  sacrificed."  Most  of  the  subjects  noticed  in  his 
previous  letters  are  touched  upon.  It  is  remarkable  that  he  should  state 
that  "  the  Peerage  which  had  been  absolutely  refused  is  granted  "  to  Sir 
Jeffery  Amherst,  whereas  he  was  not  created  a  peer  until  the  20th  May, 
1776,  eight  years  after.— (iii.  188.) 

XLIX.— 1768,  Nov.  21.  "Junius." — (The;2r«</e<fer  bearing  that  celebrated 
signature,  but  it  was  not  included  in  Junius's  ovm,  edition  of  his  Letters  in 
1772,  probably  because  Wilkes  was  mentioned  in  a  manner  not  consistent 
with  their  relations  in  that  year.)  On  the  violation  of  "  all  ties  of  honour, 
professions  of  friendship,  and  obligations  of  party "  by  the  ministry  to 
Wilkes,  but  clearly  shows  that  h^  is  not  personally  interested  about  him.— - 
(iii  190.) 

L.— 1768,  Dec.  16.  (No  signature).—"  To  the  Eight  Hon.  George  Gren- 
ville," "  who  possessed  all  the  constituent  parts  of  a  minister,  except  the 
honour  of  distributing  or  the  emolument  of  receiving  the  public  money," 
containing  general  censure  on  the  administration. — (iii.  192.) 

LL — 1769,  Jan.  21.  "  Junius."— -On  the  state  of  the  nation.  General 
censure  of  ministers  (including  the  Marquis  of  Granby,  Commander-in- 
Chief),  and  review  of  their  proceedings;  but  he  compliments  Sir  Edward 
Hawke — to  whom  the  navy  is  so  highly  indebted,  that  no  expense  should 
be  spared  to  secure  to  him  an  honourable  and  affluent  retreat  Praises  the 
personal  virtues  of  the  king. — (i.  887.) 

LII 1769,  Feb.  7.     "  Junius."-"  To  Sir  William  Draper."     Reply  tt 

a  letter  from  Sir  William  Draper,  who  had  defended  the  Marquis  of  Granby. 
"  I  ihould  have  hoped  that  even  my  name  might  carry  some  authority  with 
it"  In  support  of  his  charges  against  that  nobleman,  Junius  says,  "  he 
deserted  the  cause  of  the  whole  army  when  he  suffered  Sir  Jeffery  AmhersI 
40  be  sacrificed.- (i  410.) 


^^^^mmwmm 


ADVERTISEMENT 

PREFIXED  TO  WOODFALL'S  FIRST  EDITION,  OMITTED  IK 

THE  SECOND. 


The  present  edition  contains,  besides  the  letters  published  by  authority  ol 
Junius  himself,  others  written  by  the  same  author  under  various  signature^ 
which  appeared  in  the  Public  Advertiser  from  April,  1767,  to  May,  1772^ 
together  with  his  Private  Letters,  peculiarly  curious  and  interesting,  addressed 
to  his  printer,  the  late  Mr.  H.  S.  WoodfiUl,  and  bis  confidential  correspond* 
race  with  Mr.  Wilkes.  These  latter  papers  only  reached  the  proprietor's 
hands  after  a  considerable  part  of  the  work  had  been  printed  off,  which  will 
account  for  the  unavoidable  omission  of  any  notice  of  them  in  the  Preliminary 


It  is  in  perfect  consistency  with  the  plan  at  first  proposed  by  the  author, 
but  which  he  was  compelled  in  some  degree  to  depart  from,  as  remarked  in  the 
Preliminary  Essay,  that  the  edition  now  offered  contains,  independently  of 
his  more  finished  compositions  under  the  signature  of  Junius  and  Philo- 
Junius,  letters  under  other  signatures,  bearing  nevertheless  characteristic  and 
unequivocal  marks  of  proceeding  from  the  same  pen ;  and  which,  though 
written  perhaps  with  more  haste  than  the  former,  exhibit  merit  enough  to 
accompany  them ;  while  they  possess  no  small  portion  of  additional  value  as 
comments  upon  points  that  require  elucidation. 

The  editor,  in  thus  deciding  upon  materials  which  lie  scattered  through 
what  the  author  terms  six  "  solid  folios,''  will  be  found  seldom  to  have  relied 
altogether  upon  his  own  judgment,  but  to  have  availed  himself  of  a  variety 
of  minute  clues  resulting  from  incidental  references,  or  open  acknowledgments 
in  the  Private  Letters;  direct  charges  of  contemporary  labourers  in  the  same 
political  vineyard,  which  were  not  disavowed  by  Junius  himself,  as  was  his 
custom  whenever  "  other  persons'  sins,"  to  adopt  his  own  language,  were 
attributed  to  him ;  or  from  numerous  other  casual  hints,  both  in  the  acknow- 
ledged and  more  palpable  Miscellaneous  Letters,  of  which  the  reader,  it  is 
presumed,  will  meet  with  instances  enough  to  satisfy  himself  as  he  proceeds. 

To  the  author's  explanatory  notes,  the  present  editor  has  added  such  others 
through  the  entire  progress  of  the  work,  as  the  intervening  lapse  of  time  has 
seemed  to  render  necessary,  and  though  some  of  them  are  longer  than  he 
could  have  wished,  yet  from  the  circumstance  of  their  having  been  written 
in  answer  to  letters  from  Junius,  he  has  thought  it  more  desirable  that  they 
should  appear  in  the  form  in  which  ibey  are  now  offered,  than  be  pressed  into 
the  text  of  the  work,  by  which  means  its  present  size  must  have  been  very 
considerably  extended ;  and  the  plan,  as  devised  by  the  author,  have  been  in 
some  instances  departed  from.  Many  of  these  notes,  moreover,  selected  iroM 
the  Pvhlie  Adveriuer,  will  be  found  in  themselves  extremely  curious  an^ 
valuable,  while  at  the  same  time  they  are  nowhere  else  to  be  met  with.  The 
text  has  been  carefully  collated  with  the  journal  in  which  the  letters  origi* 
nally  appeared,  and  very  numerous  errors,  which  have  crept  into  all  the 
editions,  except  the  genuine  one  published  by  Mr.  H.  S.  Wood&U  himself 
and  which  have  been  considerably  multiplied  in  the  later  impressicns,  hai^ 
been  carefully  corrected  or  expunged. 

The  remainder  of  this  Advertisement  it  of  no  interest. 


THE 

HISTORY 

AND 

DISCOVERY    OF    JUNIUS. 


To  golve  riddles  is  a  leading  propensity  of  man,  and  the  more 
baffling  they  are  the  more  ardent  he  becomes  in  research. 
Such  dispositions  of  our  nature,  from  their  beneficial  tenden- 
cies, may  be  commendably  indulged.  To  persevering  inquiry 
society  is  mainly  indebted  for  its  progress,  and  may  look  for- 
ward to  continual  advancement,  tiU  the  utmost  limits  of  dis- 
covery are  reached,  and  philosophers,  like  Alexander  at  the 
close  of  his  triumphs,  sigh  that  no  more  victories  remain  to 
be  won. 

The  phenomena  of  the  material  universe  may  challenge 
wonder  and  admiration,  but  what  most  absorbs  sympathy 
are  the  mysteries  of  our  own  conduct.  Hence  the  superior 
interest  of  inquiries  that  pertain  to  human  genius ;  its  gran- 
deur, its  perversions,  and  its  eccentricities.  History  is  replete 
with  these  themes;  controversies  on  many  of  them  seem 
interminable,  and  the  combatants,  like  hardy  warriors,  retire 
from  the  lists,  not  because  they  are  vanquished  or  convinced, 
but  because  they  are  exhausted. 

It  is  this  wluch  has  tended  to  leave  undetermined  many 
problems  of  a  former  period.  Few  would  now  care  to  renew 
the  disputation  whether  Charles  I.  or  Bishop  Gauden  com 
posed  Eikon  Basilike  ;  whether  William  or  George  Cavendish 
wrote  the  Life  of  Wohey,  or  Lady  Packington  The  Whole 
Duty  of  Man,  The  question  revived  in  Queen  Anne's  reign, 
whether  King  James  was  the  father  of  the  old  Pretender, 
has  descended,  with  the  young  Pretender,  into  oblivion,  and 
neither  pen  nor  claymore  is  likely  again  to  be  drawn  re- 
ipeeting  any  affinities  of  the  Stuarts.  Weariness  of  the  dis- 
pute, if  not  greater  decorum,  precludes  further  scrutiny  iutc 


I 


Xii  THE  UISTOBY  AKP   DISCOYEBY  OF  JUNIUS 

llie  transgressions  of  Mary  Qaeen  of  Scotland.  Anne  of 
Austria  is  similarly  chartered,  though  her  suspected  derelicts 
were  more  numerous  than  those  of  the  Scottish  queen.  All 
these  are  enigmas  with  which  inquirers  of  the  last  century 
pertinaciously  wrestled,  as  well  as  with  the  more  melan* 
eholy  ones  pertaining  to  the  death  of  Don  Carlos  of  Spain, 
Alexis  of  Hussia,  and  Count  Konigsmark  at  the  electoral 
court  of  Hanover. 

The  truth  of  such  dark  passages  of  history  might  not  be 
of  use  to  mankind,  if  indubitably  revealed;  but  there  aro 
inquirers  who  delight  in  their  exploration  as  there  are  adven 
turers  always  forthcoming  to  brave  the  gloom  and  icebergs  of 
the  polar  seas.  On  the  other  hand,  diere  are  men  whose 
predominant  taste  is  not  to  unravel  mysteries  but  to  create 
them.  Hence  the  numerous  impostors  and  literary  forgeries 
that  have  appeared — ^Annius  of  Viterbo,  Damberger,  the 
pretended  Auican  traveller,  and  George  Psalmanazar;  the 
Bowley  Poems,  the  Poems  of  Ossian,  and  the  Shakspeare 
Papers.  With  rare  exceptions,  the  authors  of  such  fabri- 
cations maintained  their  genuineness  to  the  last,  and  died 
without  confession.  Psalmanazar,  indeed,  after  a  long  and 
successful  career  of  imposition  practised  on  bishops  and  church 
dignitaries,  was  at  length  unmasked,  chiefly  by  Dr.  Douglas 
— "the  scourge  of  impostors,  the  terror  of  quacks," — who 
pointed  out  the  contradictions  in  his  pretended  missionary 
labours  and  nativity  in  the  island  of  Formosa ;  but  though 
Psalmanazar  was  brought  to  admit  his  deceptions,  he  comd 
never  be  prevailed  on  to  disclose  his  real  name  or  birth- 
place. 

Ireland  too  was  an  exception — ^he  avowed  the  Shakspeare 
forgeries,  after  deceiving  such  recondite  connoisseurs  as  the 
Earls  of  Lauderdale  and  Somerset,  Sir  James  Burgess,  Dr 
Parr,  Mr.  Pinkerton,  and  Pye  the  poet  laureate.  But  neither 
Chatterton  nor  Macpherson  could  be  brought  to  admit  the 
spuriousness  of  their  productions.  The  "  Poems  of  Rowley  '* 
were  so  adroitly  executed,  that  no  one,  Mr.  Malone  affirmed, 
except  the  nicest  judges  of  English  poetry,  &om  Chaucer  to 
Pope,  was  competent  to  test  their  genuineness.  As  Chatter 
ton  died  without  acknowledging  their  composition,  it  is  still 
open  to  controversy.  Dr.  Johnson  believed  that  Chatterton 
was  the  author,  but  was  astonished  at  his  precocious  ability. 
**  This  is  the  most  extraordinary  young  man«"  said  he,  **  who 


•  •• 


LTTEBABY  ENIGMAS  OF  LAST  CENTURY.  XIU 

has  encountered  my  knowledge — it  is  wonderful  how  the  whelp 
has  written  such  things."  The  "  Poems  of  Ossian  "  have  heen 
an  equally  successful  deception ;  deceived  Gray,  Home,  and 
even  Dr.  Blair,  a  critic  and  writer  on  language  by  profession. 
But  the  acuteness  of  Mr.  Hume,  though  willing  to  be  con- 
verted, suggested  a  simple  trial.  "  Shew  us,"  said  the  his- 
torian, *'  the  original  Celtic  poems  from  which  the  transla- 
tions have  been  made,  and  tell  us  how  they  have  been  so 
wonderfully  preserved  during  so  many  centuries."  The  appeal 
was  a  &ur  one,  but  Macpherson  declined  to  join  issue,  and 
with  affected  disdain  refused  to  answer. 

These  retrospective  glances  have  been  cast  briefly  to  indi- 
cate the  literary  enigmas  which  have  occupied  a  pre- 
ceding generation,  but  except  as  pertaining  to  the  mysterious, 
they  have  no  relation  to  the  subject  of  the  present  inquiry. 
In  the  depths  of  their  secrecy  the  Lettebs  of  Junius  have 
been  unequalled,  but  stand  whoUy  distinct  from  the  dass  of 
literary  forgeries.  Bich  in  intrinsic  excellence,  they  might 
have  been  safely  left  to  their  own  merits  to  find  a  lasting 
place  in  public  esteem.  Unlike  the  fictions  adverted  to,  they 
are  a  genuine  production,  commenced  with  a  determinate  pur- 
pose, resolutely  persevered  in,  and  in  the  main  fully  success- 
ful. The  mystery  in  regard  to  them  is,  that  a  work  of  such 
undoubted  claims,  one  which  has  commanded  such  universal 
admiration,  should  so  long  remain  a  waif — be  so  long  astray 
in  the  world  without  any  acknowledged  claimant. 

To  unravel  this  mystery — ^to  sever  this  Gordian-knot  of 
the  age — is  the  object  of  the  present  Essay.  A  task  which 
oas  &iled  in  the  hands  of  so  many,  is  not,  it  must  be  owned, 
either  an  encouraging  or  an  easy  one.  Excess  of  false  lights, 
in  some  degree,  cUuszles  and  perplexes  the  way.  Junius  has 
been  profoundly  invisible,  but  he  is  no  myth  of  antiquity ;  he 
lived  in  an  age  when  hardly  anything  that  provokes  curiosity 
can  elude  the  searching  blaze.  For  the  result  to  be  satis- 
fiictoiy,  no  disembodied  spirit  will  suffice ;  it  must  be  a  being 
of  flesh  and  blood,  one  that  will  bear  to  be  challenged  by  facts, 
documents,  and  living  witnesses.  Despite  of  this  array,  I  shaV 
make  the  attempt.  I  shall  show  who  Junius  was,  and  the  * 
conditions  and  exigencies  under  which  he  acted.  I  will 
explain  all  that  is  most  marvellous  in  him — all  that  roost  l/ 
astonished  his  contemporaries — ^his  apparently  instantaneous 
anc  universal  sources  of  ii'teUigenco :  his  meteoric  career  and 

b  2 


nv  TH2   BISTORT  AND  OI8G0TEBT  Of  JUXIUS. 

6uddea  disappearance ;  the  reasons  of  his  concealment  >  and 
why  he  lived  and  died  auavowed. 

Who,  thkn,  was  Juntos? 

The  lists  are  crowded  with  claimants,  and  this  is  the  first 
difficulty  which  presents  itself.  The  throng  is  emharrassing, 
but  many  combatants  have  no  title  to  be  placed,  and  the 
ranks  must  be  thinned  by  settling  the  eligibilities  of  the 
tournament  This  is  a  fair  preliminary,  allowed  in  every 
investigation.  Geometricians  always  commence  with  axioms 
that  are  indisputable,  by  which  the  path  is  opened  to  theorems 
In  the  trial  of  a  judicial  issue,  certain  descriptions  of  evidence 
are  deemed  inadmissible,  and  not  entitled  to  be  examined. 
By  following  this  course,  the  ground  is  cleared,  irrelevanciea 
got  rid  of,  and  attention  concentrated  on  essential  points.  It 
is  a  precedent  I  shall  follow  by  describing  certain  denomina- 
tions of  candidates,  none  of  whom  can  possibly  have  been 
v      Junius.     Acting  upon  this  rule,  my  first  affirmation  is, 

\  That  Junius  was  not  a  Lawyer, 

In  deciding  this  issue,  I  shall  not  trust  to  my  own  judgment, 
3Ut  appeal  to  higher  authority :  Lord  Campbell,  whose  words 
have  been  quoted  (p.  63),  says  distinctly  that  Junius  could 
not  have  been  a  lawyer,  or  he  would  not  have  committed  the 
serious  mistake  of  denying  the  power  of  Chief  Justice  Mans- 
field to  bail  Eyre,  charged  with  theft  under  peculiar  circum- 
stances  *,  A  remark  of  like  import  I  have  heard  made  by  a 
celebrated  ex-chancellor.  Indeed  the  mistake  is  held  by  the 
profession  to  have  been  an  egregious  one,  and  such  as  no 
barrister  would  have  committed. 
^  In  his  Dedication  he  falls  into  a  further  unprofessional  error, 
when  in  speaking  of  the  House  of  Commons,  he  says,  "  They 
are  only  trustees,  i^efee  is  in  us."  Upon  this.  Lord  Campbell 
observes,  "  Those  who  are  of  the  eretft  all  know  that  the  fee 
is  in  the  trustee,  not  in  the  cestuiqus  trust,  or  person  benefi* 
cially  interested."  f  But  it  is  due  to  Junius  to  remark,  that 
he  never  pretended  to  be  of  the  **  craft ;"  he  disdained  tho 
connection;  considered  that  it  narrowed  the  mind  and  cor- 
rupted the  heart.  In  a  private  letter  to  Wilkes,  he  says, 
^  *^  Though  I  use  the  terms  of  art,  do  not  injure  me  so  much 
as  to  suspect  I  am  a  lawyer.  I  had  as  lief  be  a  Scotchman, 
*  Jimiuf,  Tol.  i  p.  440.  f  Iatm  of  the  Ghanc.  vi  p.  844. 


J 


JUSIUB  NOT  A  LAWYER.  XV 

It  is  the  encouragomenc  given  to  disputes  about  titles,  whicli 
has  supported  that  iniquitous  profession  at  the  expense  of  tHe 
community."  *  Judging,  therefore,  from  this  moral  aversion, 
his  renunciation,  and  his  legal  mistakes,  Junius  must  be  con- 
cluded not  to  have  been  a  lawyer. 

The  blank  it  creates  in  the  roll  of  candidates  is  enormous 
Some  of  the  brightest  and  best-supported  names  must  be 
struck  off.  Dunning  is  one ;  subtle,  able,  honest,  indepen- 
dent, so  enamoured  of  the  style  of  Junius  that  he  once 
essayed  to  imitate  it,  in  answer  to  a  City  address,  and  so 
successfully,  that  many  were  deceived.  Mr.  Britton  includes 
him  among  his  triumvirs,  and  Heron,  the  ingenious  critic 
of  language  and  eloquence,  finishes  his  learned  essay  by 
announcing  the  '*  celebrated  Dunning  to  be  Junius."  A  single 
fact  disposes  of  the  conjecture.  Dunning  was  appointed 
Solicitor-General  in  December,  1767,  and  held  that  office  till 
March,  1770.  In  December,  1769,  the  famous  letter  of 
Junius  to  the  King  appeared,  in  which  he  discharged  those 
fearful  shafts  at  royalty  that  made  the  blood  of  Mr.  Burke 
^*  run  cold ;''  and  "ji^hich,  with  other  missiles  from  the  same 
quarter,  must,  if  Dunning  was  Junius,  have  proceeded  from 
His  Majesty's  Solicitor-General !  Further,  the  Earl  of  Shel- 
burne,  with  whom  Lord  Ashbiirton  lived  in  confidential  inti- 
macy, often  declared  that  Dunning  did  not  *'  write  a  line  of 
Junius." 

Other  lawyers  have  been  named.  A  Mr.  Sergeant  Adair 
was  once  produced,  on  the  plea  of  certain  ephemeral 
pamphlets,  but  the  feebleness  they  evinced  caused  him  to 
be  quickly  given  up.  It  appears  almost  ludicrous  to  note, 
that  the  great  Lord  Camden  was  suspected,  simply  on  the 
ground  of  his  dislike  to  the  law  and  politics  of  Chief  Justice 
Mansfield.  William  Gerard  Hamilton,  of  Single-speech  fanxe, 
studied  at  Lincoln's  Inn,  but  was  not  called  to  the  bar.  He 
7as  a  man  of  worth  and  ability,  the  first  patron  of  Burke,  and 
the  intimate  associate  and  correspondent  of  the  leading  men 
of  his  day ;  but  his  nature  was  timid  and  retiring,  and  in  the 
latter  days  of  his  life  he  sank  into  an  unambitious  placidity, 
irreconcilable  with  the  energetic  and  indefatigable  Junius 
When  questioned  on  the  subject  by  Earl  Temple,  he  dis 
tinctly  denied  the  authorship  of  the  Letters  f.  Just  before  hii» 
ieftth,  the  same  question  was  asked  him  by  a  member  of  the 

*  Letter  to  Wilkee,  Ko.  70,  p.  91.       t  Dr.  Qood'e  Prelim.  Benj,  p.  ^^ 


^ 


XVI  THE  HISTOHY  AND  DISCOVERY   OF  JUNIUS. 

House  of  Commons ;  he  repeated  his  denial,  which  it  is  quite 
unlikely  he  would  have  done  if  he  had  had  any.  claim  to  the 
composition  of  writings  so  celebrated,  so  efifective,  and  so 
accordant  with  his  own  principles. 

In  connection  with  Mr.  Hamilton,  an  opportunity  is  afforded 
for  a  passing  audit  of  the  claims  of  Earl  Temple ;  he  was  not 
a  lawyer,  but  a  volume  has  been  written  in  his  favour*.  If 
his  Lordship  was  Junius,  it  must  have  been  a  superfluous 
interrogatory,  or  a  very  poor  joke,  to  ask  Gerard  Hamilton 
the  question.  Earl  Temple  was  not  reputed  by  a  discern 
ing  judge  to  be  a  writer  of  competent  power  to  wing  the  shafts 
of  Junius.  A  pamphlet  which  appeared  in  1766,  of  some 
merit,  was  ascribed  to  him,  but  Lord  Chesterfield  remarked, 
th&t  he  thought  it  "  above  him."  Besides,  Temple  was 
an  active  politician,  a  Peer  of  Parliament,  and  brother-in 
law  of  Lord  Chatham,  and  had  no  need  of  the  Public  Adver- 
tiser  to  circulate  his  opinions.  Although  his  claim  is  disal- 
lowed, it  will  ^appear  probable  in  the  sequel,  that  Earl  Temple 
was  one  among  the  parties  who  contributed  materials  to  Junius ; 
and  towards  the  close  of  the  Letters,  his  Lordship  may  have 
confidentially  known  the  author. 

Other  names,  in  addition  to  the  above,  have  been  adduced, 
but  it  is  unnecessary  to  dwell  on  their  claims.  If  any 
member  of  the  profession  be  again  brought  forward  under  the 
visor  of  Junius,  he  may  be  readily  disposed  of  either  as  a  false 
Junius,  or  a  bad  lawyer.  ^  That  Junius  consulted  lawyers,  and 
able  ones,  has  been  admitted,  but  he  could  not  have  done  this 
frequently  without  endangering  his  privacy.  His  argument, 
impugning  Lord  Mansfield's  decision,  he  admits,  cost  him 
infinite  pains,  which  is  probable  enough  in  the  absence  of 
professional  acquirements  and  resources.  Addressing  Mr. 
Wilkes,  he  says,  **  No  man  writes  under  so  many  disadvan- 
tages as  I  do ;  I  cannot  consult  the  learned,  I  cannot  directly 
ask  the  opinion  of  my  acquaintances."!  But  enough  of  the 
legal  character  of  Junius.  Against  the  next  class  the  proof 
is  not  so  strong,  but  the  probability  is  great 

^  That  Junius  was  not  a  Clergyman, 

If  he  were,  he  must  have  been  a  lax  or  insincere  one,  and 
flbat  is  inconsistent  with  his  fieiy  and  daring  temperament 
Some  have  held  him  to  be  without  religion.     This  is  inadmis 

*  Z.<e.  <2f  JundMs,  by  Newhall,  1881.  f  Letter  to  Wilkee,  Ke^  79. 


JUNIUS  NOT  A  CLERGYMAN.  XV 11 

sible.  Bigoted  or  sectarian  he  evideutly  was  not ;  but  that  he 
nhorished  real  piety  is  attested  by  the  grateful  tenour  of  the 
peroration  with  which  he  winds  up  his  labours  (vol.  1.  470). 
The  priesthood  certainly  did  not  stand  high  in  his  estimation,  y' 
and  by  taunts  and  inuendoes  he  frequently  attempts  to  cast 
ridicule  upon  them.  He  was  familiar  with  the  language  of 
Scripture,  but,  as  Heron  has  observed,  often  used  it  in  mock-  ^ 
ery.  Upon  such  jmwa/acM  indications,  it  may  with  tolerable 
certainty  be  concluded,  that  Junius  was  not  in  holy  orders. 

If  this  be  correct,  Philip  Francis,  D.D.,  descended  from  a 
race  of  church  dignitaries,  richly  beneficed,  could  not  have 
been  Junius;  and  resting  upon  the  like  ecclesiastical  objec- 
tion, neither  could  the  Kev.  Philip  Rosenhagen.  He  was 
a  chaplain  in  the  army,  and  may  have  known  something 
of  military  men  and  affairs,  but  the  Letters  were  beyond 
his  calibre.  He  wrote  a  pamphlet  in  answer  to  Dr.  John- 
sons FalM  Alarrriy  in  which  the  feebleness  of  the  argument 
was  on  a  level  with  the  meagreness  of  the  style,  and 
very  unlike  the  vivid  flashes  that  illumed  the  columns  of 
the  Public  Advertiser,  Mr.  WoodfeU  knew  him  intimately ; 
he  had  been  his  schoolfellow  at  St.  Paul's,  and  was  quite 
satisfied  that  he  had  no  share  in  the  production  of  the  Letters. 
The  autograph  of  Junius  was  bold,  firm,  and  precise ;  that  of  ^ 
Rosenhagen  a  feeble,  half  illegible  scrawl.  Besides,  Eosen^ 
hagen  was  of  foreign  extraction,  and  could  hardly  be  master 
of  the  idiomatic  phraseology,  constitutional  knowledge^  and 
British  feeling  that  signalize  Junius.  But  he  was  ambitious 
of  the  honour,  and  in  common  with  Hugh  Boyd,  and  other 
pretenders,  decked  in  the  plumage  of  the  royal  bird,  sought  to 
profit  by  it;  for,  upon  the  authority  of  Gerard  Hamilton, 
t  is  related  by  Almon*  that  Rosenhagen  tried  to  negotiate  a 
pension  for  himself  with  Lord  North,  on  the  stipulation  that 
Junius  "  would  write  no  more." 

Special  reasons  also  exist  against  the  claim  of  Dr.  Butler, 
Bishop  of  Hereford,  who  occasionally  wrote  political  pamph- 
lets, but  they  were  mediocre  productions,  without  either  the 
grace  or  fire  of  Junius.  It  could  only  have  been  an  ironical 
joke  of  Mr.  Wilkes,  to  impute  the  authorship  to  this  prelate. 
The  claim  of  the  Rev.  Dr.  James  Wilmot,  in  whose  favour  his 
niece,  the  celebrated  Olivia  Wilmot. Serres,  ci-devant  Princess 
of  Cuml)erland,  put  forth  a  volume,  with  a  portrait  of  the 

*  Letters  of  Junius,  Fre&ce,  p.  lit. 


\ 


> 


Xviii  THE   HISTORY  AND   DISCOVERT   OF  JUNIUS. 

Doctor,  Latin  motto,  fac-sirailes,  tc.j  need  only  be  mentioned 
I  advance  to  a  hig'ner  sphere^  comprising  two  estates  of  the 
realm,  and  proceed  to  show,  that 

Junius  was  neither  a  Peer  nor  Member  of  the  House  of 

Commons. 


A  remarkable  trait  in  our  autlior  is  his  knowledge  of  the 
great  world.  Whatever  might  have  been  his  talents,  the 
spirit  of  his  language,  the  originality  of  his  ideas,  or  the 
patriotism  of  his  purpose,  he  evidently  felt,  that  to  exhibit  a 
perfect  and  constant  acquaintance  with  political  and  court  life 
was  absolutely  essential  to  gain  the  public  ear.  In  this  object 
he  completely  succeeded,  displaying  such  a  mastery  of  facts, 
such  an  immediate  knowledge  of  State  secrets,  and  such  supe- 
riority of  style  and  tone,  that  he  was  always  presumed  to 
speak  from  a  high  position  in  society.  "  My  rank  and  for- 
tune," he  artfully  intimates,  **  place  me  above  a  common 
bribe"*  Perhaps  a  seat  in  the  cabinet  only  could  buy 
Junius.  That  he  had  some  personal  views  to  future  honour 
and  advantage  he  does  not  deny,  but  says,  "  I  can  truly 
affirm,  neither  are  they  little  in  ^emselves,  nor  can  they  by 
any  possible  conjecture  be  collected  from  my  writings. '*t 
J,  Then  he  had  intelligence  from  every  quarter.  If  a  secret 
expedition  was  fitting  out,  he  knew  it ;  if  war  impended,  he 
anticipated  all  the  visitors  of  the  Orange  or  Cocoa-tree  |.  Were 
any  official  changes  in  train,  Junius  was  the  first  to  announce 
them.  Were  a  nobleman  affronted,  he  was  the  earliest  to 
denounce  it.  **  That  Swinney,  **  says  he,  "  is  a  wretched,  but 
dangerous  fool,  to  address  Lord  George  SackviUe."§  '*  Beware  of 
David  Garrick.  He  was  sent  to  pump  you,  and  went  direct!; 
to  Eichmond  to  tell  the  king  I  should  write  no  more."||  The 
Corporation  of  London,  the  cabals  and  clubs  of  the  citizens, 

*  Let.  No.  54,  p.  265.  f  Let  to  Wilkes,  p.  63. 

$  Of  the  latter  Gibbon  gives  tbe  following  description : — "  That  respectable 
body  of  which  I  have  the  honour  of  being  a  member  affords  every  evening  a 
sight  truly  English.  Twenty  or  thirty,  perhaps,  of  the  first  men  in  the 
kingdom  in  point  of  fiuhion  and  fortune,  supping  off  little  tables,  covered  with 
a  napkin,  in  the  middle  of  a  coffee-room,  upon  a  bit  of  cold  meat  or  a  sandwich, 
and  drinking  a  glass  of  punch.  At  present  we  are  full  of  king's  counsellon 
and  lords  of  the  bedchamber,  who,  havinff  jumped  into  the  ministrr,  make  • 
very  singular  medley  of  their  old  principles  and  language  with  their  modem 
anes."— Vo«rfus//or  Hovem^,  1762. 

S  Private  Letter,.No.  H.  Q  Ib.«  No.  40. 


JUNIUS  NOT  A  PEER  OK  M.P.  XIX 

were  equally  open  to  him.  Neither  were  the  precincts  of  the  J  , 
Palace  sacred ;  with  the  secrets  of  the  closet  he  was  acquaintecu  ^ 
and  even  those  of  the  kitchen  did  not  escape  him.  In  one 
place  it  is  said,  "  a  great  personage  had  need  of  cordials ;" 
in  another,  that  a  fit  of  chagrin  had  supervened  over  royalty, 
and  that  it  would  be  met  by  a  **  week's  diet  of  potatoes." 
Even  the  business  of  the  printer  would  appear  to  have 
been  better  known  to  Junius  than  to  Woodfall.  **  Your 
VeridicuSy  "  says  he,  *'  is  Mr.  Whitworth;  I  assure  you,  I  ha\e 
not  confided  in  him."*  **  Your  Lycurgus  is  a  Mr.  Kent,  a 
young  man  of  good  parts  upon  town."f  Jf  oppressed  by 
power,  he  assures  him  that  money  shall  not  be  wanted  to 
sustain  him,  and  prevent  loss.  He  cautions  Wilkes  against 
making  himself  "so  cheap,  by  walking  the  streets  so  much." J 
Perhaps  Junius  means  it  to  be  inferred  that  he  had  descried 
the  great  agitator  from  hid  carriage. 

Not  content  with  creating  ua  impression  of  rank  and  affluence, 
and  of  a  familiarity  with  both  court  and  city,  he  sought  to 
clothe  himself  with  the  vonerableness  of  age.  As  one  of  the 
fruits  of  his  past  life  he  strongly  inculcates  honesty  to  Woodfall. 
*  After  long  experience  in  the  world,"  he  tells  him,  **I  can  assure 
you  I  never  knew  a  rogue  who  was  happy. "  Wilkes  tries  to  draw 
him  to  a  Mansion-house  ball ;  offers  him  tickets,  and  expresses 
the  joy  he  would  feel  to  see  him  dance  with  Polly  his  daughter. 
"  How  happy  should  I  be,"  says  he,  "  to  see  my  Portia  here 
dance  a  graceful  minuet  with  Junius  Brutus !  But  Junius  ia 
inexorable,  and  I  submit."  Junius  replies,  "  Many  thanks  for 
your  obliging  offer ;  but  alas !  my  age  and  figure  would  do  little 
credit  to  my  partner."  Would  not  any  one  infer  that  the 
writer  was  an  old  man ;  or,  if  not  advanced  in  years,  beyond  \ 
middle  life,  and  somewhat  portly  ? 

Under  his  circumstances  it  is  but  slight  reproach  to  Junius 
to  have  resorted  to  those  illui&ive  arts.  He  had  great  practical 
ends  in  view,  which  could  only  be  realized  by  practical  means 
Columbus,  in  quest  of  the  New  World,  found  himself  com- 
pelled to  resort  to  deceptions;  and  so  too  Napoleon,  Hannibal, 
Mahomet,  and  other  great  leaders  or  misleaders  of  man- 
kind. But  few  have  been  more  triumphant  than  Junius.  ^/^ 
His  aims,  as  stated,  were  twofold— to  give  weight  and 
authority  to  his  writings,  and  to  conceal  the  writer.  His 
Buccess  has  been  extraordinary  in  both.  His  printer  was 
*  Prifate  Lett«r«  No.  6.  f  lb.,  No.  H.  t  Page  78. 


XX  THE   HISTORY  AND   DIBOOTERT  OF  JUNIUS. 

awo-struck  by  a  sense  of  the  great  unknown  with  whom 
he  was  in  communion,  and  reverentially  sought  his  guidance 
in  the  discharge  of  his  electoral  duties  *.  The  great  demo- 
gorgon  of  the  city  lay  prostrate.  *•  I  do  not  mean,"  says 
Wilkes,  "  to  indulge  the  impertinent  curiosity  of  finding  out 
the  most  important  secret  of  our  times — the  authorship  ot 
Junius.  I  will  not  attempt  with  profane  hands  to  tear  the 
sacred  veil  of  the  sanctuary :  I  am  disposed,  with  the  in- 
habitants of  Attica,  to  erect  an  altar  to  tlie  unknown  god 
of  our  political  idolatry y  and  will  be  content  to  worship 
him  in  clouds  and  darkness/'f  To  which  the  god  replies, 
first  gently  reproving  the  lax  ethics  of  his  worshipper, 
*'  I  find  I  am  treated  as  other  gods  usually  are  by  their  vota- 
ries, with  sacrifice  and  ceremony  in  abundance,  and  very  little 
obedience.  The  profession  of  your  faith  is  unexceptionable ; 
but  I  am  a  modest  deity,  and  should  be  full  as  well  satisfied 
^ith  good  works  and  morality."*  Even  the  sage  Dr.  Johnson 
did  not  escape  the  Junius  rage.  He  thought  it  was  Burke's 
thunder  that  rolled  over  him : — "  I  should  have  believed  Burke 
to  be  Junius,"  said  he  to  Boswell,  ''because  I  know  no  man  but 
Burke  who  is  capable  of  writing  these  letters ;  but  Burke  sponta- 
neously denied  it  to  me.  "§  Mr.  Burke  himself  was  carried  off  his 
feet  equally  with  the  great  moralist,  and  poured  out  the  well- 
known  description  already  inserted  (vol.  i.  p.  4),  of  the  new 
comet  that  blazed  in  the  political  firmament.  The  myrmidons 
of  the  court,  and  the  legal  advisers  of  the  Crown,  were  not  less 
astounded,  and,  according  to  Lord  Campbell,  many  consulta- 
tions were  held  between  the  Earl  of  Mansfield  and  his  friends 
to  consider  how  **  the  mighty  boar  of  the  forest"  could  be  most 
adroitly  ensnared  in  the  network  of  the  law.  But  they  were 
divided  in  opinion  as  to  the  most  advisable  course.  In  conse- 
quence the  Chief  Justice  was  left  to  his  terrors,  and  for  a  long 
time  he  was  *'  afraid  at  breakflEist  to  look  into  the  Daily  Adver^ 
tiser,  lest  he  should  find  in  it  some  new  accusation  which  he 
could  neither  passively  submit  to,  nor  resent  without  discredit."  || 
In  his  extremity  his  Lordship  is  considered  to  have  grappled 
with  his  assailant  in  his  own  way,  and  to  have  entered  the  lists 
against  him  in  the  Puhlic  Advertiser  under  the  disguise  of  a 
fictitious  name.     "  There  appeared,"  says  Lord  Campbell, 

*  Letter  No.  64,  p.  61.        f  Letter  of  Wilkes,  p.  88.        t  lb.,  p.  87. 

§  Life  of  Johnson,  vol.  iii.  p.  402. 

i  Lives  of  the  Chief  Justices,  vol.  ii  p.  492. 


JUKIU8  KOT  A  PEEB  OR  M.P.  JLZI 

''in  the  Daibj  Advertiser  [his  Lordship's  constant  mistake  for 
Public]  a  very  able  paper  signed  '  Zeno,*  in  defence  of  Lord 
Mansfield  against  all  the  charges  Junius  had  brought  against 
him,  which  was  supposed  to  have  been  written  by  Lord  Mans- 
field himself;  but  it  only  drew  forth  a  more  scurrilous  diatribe 
from  Pbilo- Junius,  and  all  hope  of  refuting  or  punishing  him 
was  abanHoned."* 

The  excitement  ertended  to  an  humbler  sphere,  and  to 
places  distant  irom  ibe  metropolis.  **  Old  people  have  told 
me,"  says  Lady  Francis,  "  that  we  have  no  idea  of  the  sensa 
tion  created  at  the  time  in  remote  little  towns.  The  post-  y^ 
man  would  call  out,  as  he  rode  through  the  streets, '  A  letter 
from  Junius  to-day ! '  and  all  who  took  in  the  Public  Advertiser 
were  besieged  with  requests." 

Amidst  all  this  stir  and  ecldt  it  does  not  greatly  excite  sur- 
prise that  both  the  conjectures  of  contemporaries,  and  subse- 
quent inquiries  into  the  identity  of  Junius,  have  been  so  far 
astray.     It  could  not  possibly  be  imagined,  that  letters  replete 
with  80  many  indications  of  scholarship  and  station   could  X' 
emanate  from  an  ignoble  source.      Hence   the  telescopes 
of  observers  swept  the  field  at  too  great  an  elevation ;  never 
seeking  the  author  in  a  less  personage  than  a  distinguished    y     y 
peer  or  commoner,  or  some  writer  of  established  renown.    This      ^ 
was  precisely  the  direction  which  Junius  sought,  with  consum- 
mate art,  to  give  to  public  scrutiny,  and  which  enabled  him 
for  half  a  centiuy  after  to  walk  the  earth  in  his  invisible  garb, 
not  only  unknown,  but  unsuspected.  ^ 

Misled  by  the  fictitious  character  which  Junius  established,  * 
the  world  has  shut  its  eye$  to  a  very  palpable  mode  of  narrow- 
ing the  circle  of  inquiry.  Upon  his  own  showing  it  has  been  \  y 
already  decided  that  he  was  neither  a  lawyer  nor  a  clergyman. 
He  also,  in  apparent  unconsciousness  of  the  conclusion  that 
might  be  drawn  from  it,  raises  the  veil  in  another  place,  and 
affords  satisfactory  evidence  that  he  was  not  a  member  of 
either  house  of  Parliament.  Anxiously  and  vigilantly  he  kept 
watch  to  prevent  detection  f ;  but,  as  Young  truly  remarks, — 

"  Man's  caation  often  into  danger  tnnu." 

•  VoL  i  p.  421. 

f  That  Jmiittf  took  great  paing  to  mislead  inquirers  into  his  identity  if 
evident  firom  some  of  his  contradictory  statements,  in  cases  where  there  ii 
ao  doubt  of  the  genuineness  of  the  letters ;  thus,  in  Letter  111,  vol  ii. 
^  406,  he  calls  himself  a  Scotchman^  and  signs  Swttu,  while  in  Letter  70^ 


XXU  THE    HISTORY    AND    DISCOVERY   OF  JUNIUS. 

By  referring  to  a  subsequent  page  (p.  34),  it  will  be  seen  tha^ 
Junius  was  extremely  desirous  of  being  present  on  the  ap- 
proaching debate  on  the  Falkland  Islands,  and  strenuously 
exerted  himself  that  the  public  might  not  be  excluded.  For 
this  purpose  he  despatched  a  series  of  paragraphs  to  Woodfall, 
to  be  successively  inserted  in  his  paper,  with  the  aim  of 
shaming  ministers  into  a  compliance  with  his  wishes.  But 
.  why  all  this  paragraphing  to  obtain  open  doors,  and  the  ad- 
\y  mission  of  strangers  into  the  gallery?  Had  he  been  a  mem- 
\  her  of  Parliament  he  would  have  had  the  right  of  entry;  but 
that  he  was  not,  and  sought  admission  only  as  one  of  th3 
broad  public,  may  be  safely  inferred.  What  a  host  of  claim 
ants  are  set  aside  by  this  consideration  ?  As  elsewhere  re 
marked  (p.  35),  the  Duke  of  Pprtland,  the  Earl  of  Chester- 
field, Earl  Shelbume,  Lord  G^rge  Sackville,  Mr.  Hamilton, 
Mr.  Burke,  Leonidas  Glover,  Colonel  Barre,  with  sundry 
others,  could  not  have  been  Junius,  since  all  these  were  mem- 
bers either  of  the  upper  or  the  lower  House. 

Against  such  conclusion  it  has  been  observed,  that  the  object, 
of  Junius  on  this  as  on  other  occasions  may  have  been  to  mis- 
.  lead  as  to  his  identity.  But  the  paragraphs  were  not  pub- 
N^  lished  under  his  signature ;  they  were  not  meant  to  support 
the  Junius  character;  but  were  circulated  as  ordinary  news  to 
advance  a  public  object,  and  not  to  aid  his  disguise.  Besides, 
it  was  not  a  direction  in  which  Junius  sought  to  deceive,  his 
aim,  as  already  explained,  being  to  augment  the  inBuence  of 
his  writings  by  magnifying  the  impression  of  his  political  im- 
portance. 

That  the  reader  may  at  once  perceive  how  few  with  any 
pretensions  have  escaped  suspicion,  I  subjoin  a  list  of  claim- 
ants with  appendant  notes. 

Colonel  Barre,  Earl  Shelbume, 

Hugh  Macauley  Boyd  \  Lord  Camden, 

Bishop  Butler,  Earl  Temple, 

Lord  Chatham,  M.  Delolme^ 

Lord  Chesterfield,  J.  Dunning  (Lord  Ashburton), 

vol.  it  p.  91,  and  in  other  places,  he  manifests  his  dislike  of  *h.e  Scotch. 
Again,  in  Letter  105,  vol.  iL  p.  898,  he  describes  himself  as  a  soldier 
hi  another  Letter  he  declares,  "  X  am  not  a  soldier." 


*  Preliminary  Essay,  voL  I  p.  67. 

'  A  foreigner,  author  of  an  el<^gantly  written  Bssay  on  the   Rnglisli 


•  •• 


LIST  OF    CLAIMAKT8.  XXIU 

Heury  Flood,  the  Irish  orator  Samuel  Dyer% 

Edmund  Burke,  George  Grenville  and 

Edward  Gibbon,  the  historian'*  James  Grenville ', 

William  Gerard  Hamilton,  William  Greatrake£>^ 

Charles  Lloyd^  Duke  of  Portland  ^ 
John  Roberts, 

Constitutioxi,  which  for  many^yean  enjoyed  great  popularity,  and  it  qnoted  by 
Joniiis.  Delolme  only  arrived  in  England  in  the  winter  Junius  began.  He  is 
]>r.  Busby's  hero ;  and  his  cause  is  maintained  with  considerable  ingenuity 
by  the  usual  appliances  of  ^tc-similes,  identity  of  style  and  sentiment ;  also 
by  reference  to  a  letter  that  appeared  two  days  previously  in  the  Momi/tg 
CkronicU,  which  letter  the  Doctor  avers  to  have  been  written  by  Junius, 
oUm  by  Delolme,  and  that  Junius  prevailed  on  Wood&ll  to  reprint  in  the 
Pviblic  Advertiter:  see  No.  61  of  the  Miscellaneous  Letters.  But  the 
statement  proves  nothing,  except  perhaps  the  industry  of  Junius,  who,  despite 
of  his  denial  of  the  authorship  to  Woodfall,  may  have  furnished  Mr.  William 
Wood&Il  with  a  rough  copy  in  the  way  of  encouragement  in  his  newspaper 
adventure  previous  to  its  appearance  in  a  more  finished  style  in  the  Pvilio 
Advertiser. 

*  Beyond  holding  a  place  it  does  not  appear  that  Gibbon  was  greatly 
enamourfd  of  politics.  It  was  not  till  1770  that  he  tried  his  powers  in 
Snglish  composition,  by  a  pamphlet  in  reply  to  Warburton  on  the  Eleusinian 
Mysteries ;  and  alrc«dy  his  mind  was  absorbed  in  the  noble  task  that  has 
immortalized  him. 

*  Of  the  claima  of  the  last  three  named,  see  vol.  i.  p.  56. 

*  The  brothers  Grenville  were  two  of  the  three  sons  of  Richard  Grenville, 
Esq.  George  Grenville,  the  minister,  died  in  1770.  James,  who  became  a 
Lord  of  the  Treasury  and  died  in  1783,  established  no  claims  to  Junian 
honours. 

'  A  notable  example  this  of  connecting  small  things  with  great  Great- 
nkes,  a  native  of  Ireland,  died  suddenly  at  Hungerford  on  his  way  from 
Bristol  to  London,  and  was  buried  there,  with  stai  novUnis  umbra  inscribed 
on  his  gravestone.  The  industry  of  Mr.  Britton  has  collected  some  curious 
facts  to  prove  that  Greatrakes  was  the  amanuensis  employed  by  Junius  to 
copy  his  letters  for  the  P.  A.;  but  it  ought  first  to  be  shown  that  Junius 
employed  an  amanuensis.  K  he  did,  and  Greatrakes  was  his  penman,  it  could 
haidly  give  him  a  claim  to  the  motto  of  his  principal.  That  was  a  distinction 
which,  if  it  has  any  significance,  could  be  applicable  only  to  the  shadow  of  a 
shade  that  wrote  the  letters,  not  the  copyist  of  them.  Probably  an  affectation 
for  the  same  device  was  the  only  affinity  between  them,  and,  in  the  case  ol 
Greatrakes,  referred  to  the  obscure  place  of  his  death,  not  to  anything  done 
in  his  lifetime. 

'  According  to  Mr.  Johnston*s  interpretation,  the  entire  aim  of  the  Letters 
was  the  restoration  of  the  Duke  of  Portland's  estate,  part  of  which  had  been 
taken  firom  his  Grace  in  the  year  1767  and  granted  to  Sir  James  Lowther, 
who  had  married  the  daughter  of  Lord  Bute.  It  was  the  resumption  of  a 
(^Byal  gfmt,  on  the  now  exploded  legal  maxim  that  no  length  of  possession  wil) 


XXIV  THE   HISTOBr  AND    DISCOVERr  OF  JUNIUS. 

Richard  Glover  ^  John  Home  Tooke, 

Sir  William  Jones,  John  Kent*'*, 

James  Hollis,  Henry  Grattan  *^ 

General  Lee  ^  Daniel  Wray*^ 

Laughlin  Maclean  ***,  Horace  Walpole, 

Lord  George  Sackville",  Alexander  Wedder'oTim  (Lord 

Rev.  Philip  Rosenhagen,  Loughborough)**, 

John  Wilkes, 

bar  the  right  of  the  crown,  and  is  understood  to  have  been  the  result  of  mini- 
sterial  manoeuvres  to  strengthen  the  election  interests  of  the  Lonsdale  fiunily  in 
Cumberland.  The  transfer  has  been  severely  commented  upon  in  the  Letters ; 
and  the  privation  was  keenly  felt  by  the  Duke  of  Portland,  sufficiently  so 
p^haps  to  make  him  a  good  Utwyer,  but  not  a  Junius. 

'  The  writer  mentioned  in  the  last  note,  who,  in  his  "  Letters  to  a  Noble- 
man," bolsters  up  the  pretensions  of  the  Duke  of  Portland,  treats  with 
supreme  contempt  the  claims  of  "Leantdas"  Glover.  Johnston  declares  that 
he  has  no  fiiith  in  him,  though  his  advocates,  as  corroborative  facts,  assert 
that  Mr.  Glover  "  wore  a  bag,  with  his  wig  accurately  dressed,  and  carried  a 
small  cocked  hat  under  his  arm,  before  the  year  1776,  and  in  this  costume 
constantly  walked,  in  fine  weather,  firom  his  house  in  St.  James's  Street,  in 
Westminster,  into  the  city,'*  the  writers  thence  inferring  that  he  was  the 
"  tall  gentleman"  who  threw  the  letter  into  Mr.  Wood&irs  office  in  Ivy  Lane. 

'  At  Warsaw  pending  the  letter-writing. 

*•  Vide  vol.  i.  p.  77,  note. 

^*  Afterwards  Lord  George  Germaine ;  a  fiivourite  and  courtier  of  G^rge 
III.f  and  very  unlikely  to  be  his  accuser.    See  also  voL  L  p.  81. 

^*  Wished  to  pass  for  Junius,  but  only  a  penny-a-liner,  or,  according  to 
Almon,  a  newspaper  editor  at  a  weekly  stipend. 

"  The  suspicion  fixed  upon  the  Irish  patriot  induced  Mr.  Almon  to  address 
to  him  a  letter  of  inquiry,  to  which  Mr.  Grattan,  with  characteristic  manliness^ 
returned  the  following  explicit  reply : — 

*'  Sir, — I  can  firankly  assure  you  that  I  know  nothing  of  Junius,  except 
that  I  am  not  the  author.  When  Junius  beoan  I  was  a  boy,  and  knew 
nothing  of  politics  or  the  persons  concerned  in  them. 

"  I  am,  Sir,  not  JuniuSf  but  your  very  good  wisher  and  obedient  servant, 
"  Dublin,  November  4, 1806.  "  H.  Grattah.** 

'^  Many  years  a  deputy- teller  of  the  Exchequer  by  fiivour  of  the  Hard- 
wicke  fiunily.  A  good  "fellow"  at  college  and  in  society,  and  much  devoted 
to  letters,  especially  hlaeh  The  pleasant  biographical  anecdotist,  Mr.  Justice 
Hardinge,  contributed  a  curious  Wray-ana  to  Nichols's  "Illustrations  ol 
Literary  History;"  but  the  monument  Mr.  Palconar  has  sought  to  raise  te 
his  memory,  by  making  Wray  Junius,  will  not  bear  scrutiny. 

^^  Lord  Campbell  repudiates  the  notion  of  Wedderbum  being  Junius.  He 
Had,  however,  his  literary  sponsors.  Sir  Nathaniel  Wraxall  remarks  that  **  be 
had  long  nourished  a  strong  belief  that  the  late  chancellor  was  the  anthor, 
and  that  persons  of  credit  had  recognised  the  handwriting  to  be  that  of  M.'^j. 
Wedderbum,  his  first  wife." 


LI8T   OF   CLAIMANTS.  XXV 

Philip  Francis,  D.D  ",  James  Wilmot,  D.D. '. 

Junius  has  been  a  favourite  theme  of  literary  exercise ,  and 
there  is  not  one  of  the  above  thirtj-five  names  on  which  a 
dook,  pamphlet,  review,  essay,  or  disquisition  has  not  been 
written,  but  almost  the  whole  number  are  inadmissible  under 
the  general  class-rules  previously  established.  As  different 
persons,  however,  are  impressible  by  different  kinds  of  fact  and 
reasoning,  it  may  be  more  conclusive,  in  addition  to  the  specific 
objections  condensed  in  the  accompanying  notes,  to  add  some 
further  disqualifications.  Some  of  the  candidates,  as  Laughlin 
Maclean,  Lord  Sackville,  and  Lord  Chesterfield,  appear  to 
have  possessed  a  tenacious  vitality — have  been  slain,  and 
buried  repeatedly,  and  again  been  raised  by  ingenious  opera 
tors.  To  prevent  similar  reproductions,  I  shall,  in  respect  of 
some  leading  names,  subjoin  a  few  supplemental  notices,  after 
which,  I  apprehend,  the  field  will  be  cleared  of  pretenders  up 
to  the  publication  of  Woodfairs  Junius  in  1812. 

The  Earl  of  Chatham  has  been  mentioned ;  that  neither  he 
nor  Lovd  Camden  was  Junius  may  at  once  be  determined  on 
the  authority  of  the  Chatham  Papers  and  the  facts  stated  at 
p.  52,  elucidatory  of  the  anxiety  of  Junius  to  obtain  duplicate 
proofs  from  the  printer  to  forward  to  the  former  statesman. 
Moreover,  Lordjuhat^am,  though  most  effective  in  oratory, 
was  careless  m  literary  composition ;  inexact,  loose,  and  repe- 
titionaiy :  very  unlike  Junius,  who  not  only  polished  his  public 
letters  to  the  highest  finish,  but  never  let  the  most  brief  or 
trivial  private  note  escape  him  unmarked  by  the  hand  of  a 
master. 

Similar  negligence  of  style  is  observable  in  the  Earl  of 
Shelbome.    His  Lordship  was  a  munificent  patron  of  men  of 

^  In  the  lag t  note  handwriting  is  aasomed  the  cardinal  point  of  proof.  Mi, 
Taylor,  in  his  fint  attempt  to  diicover  Junius,  greatly  relied  on  a  long  array 
of  extiacta,  from  which  he  concluded  certain  similarities  of  style  made  it  pro- 
bable Dr.  Francis  was  the  author  of  the  Letters.  Both  style  and  handwriting 
appear  very  uncertain  criteria  of  authorship.  There  have  been,  as  the 
Athenaum  has  remarked,  upwards  of  thirty  Jnninses,  and  in  £Eivonr  of  each 
the  "respectiye  patron  has  adduced  similarity  of  style"  in  proof  of  identity. 

'^  The  late  Mr.  Beckford,  of  Fonthill,  is  said  in  a  conversation  reported 
in  the  New  Monthly  Magazine,  to  have  given  his  opinion,  that  Dr.  Wilmot 
was  Junius,  but  he  adduced  no  coincidences  in  the  life,  character,  or  abilities 
of  the  Doctor,  who  was  a  convivial  divine,  to  prove  identity.  In  the  sequel 
.'t  will  be  shown  who  was  Junius,  and,  this  establishe<l,  it  ignores  the  cliiou 
'A  the  above  list  ol  candidatet. 


XXy\  THE  HISTORY  AND  DISCOVERY    OF  JUNIUS 

letters  and  cultivated  their  society ;  was  remarkably  well  in- 
formed on  all  public  questions  pertaining  to  this  and  other 
countries ;  used  to  select  able  men,  like  Dunning  and  Barre^ 
to  represent  and  enforce  his  sentiments  in  the  House  of  Com- 
mons ;  and  had  special  agents  abroad  for  the  purpose  of  for- 
warding authentic  intelligence  on  the  state  of  foreign  affairs  ; 
but  he  was  careless  of  language.  Of  this  his  letters  in  the 
Vhatham  Correspondence  aJSbrd  proofs ;  they  are  short  and 
negligently  expressed,  manifesting  an  obvious  desire  of  the 
writer  to  despatch  what  he  had  to  say,  in  the  fewest  and 
readiest  words — habits  of  composition  not  characteristic  of 
Junius. 

But  his  Lordship  disclaimed  the  distinction,  only  a  week 
before  his  death  in  1 80^MT)eing  personally  applied  to  on 
the  subject  ot  Junius  by  the  late  Sir  Eichard  Phillips.  Sir 
Bichard,  according  to  the  account  he  gave  of  the  interview 
.n  the  Monthly  Magazine,  told  his  Lordship,  *'  that  many 
persons  had  ascribed  these  letters  to  him,  and  that  the  world 
at  leirge  conceived  that  at  least  he  was  not  unacquainted  with 
che  author."  The  Marquis  smiled,  and  said,  **  No,  no ;  I  am 
not  equal  to  Junius,  I  could  not  be  the  author;  but  the 
grounds  of  secrecy  are  now  so  far  removed  by  death  and 
changes  of  circumstances,  that  it  is  unnecessary  the  author 
of  Junius  should  be  much  longer  unknown.  The  world  is 
curious  about  him,  and  I  could  make  a  very  interesting  pub- 
lication on  the  subject.  I  knew  Junius,  and  I  know  all  ahoiU 
the  writing  and  production  of  those  letters.  But,"  said  he, 
**  look  at  my  condition ;  I  don't  think  I  can  live  a  week — my 
legs,  my  strength,  tell  me  so ;  but  the  doctors,  who  always 
flatter  sick  men,  assure  me  I  am  in  no  immediate  danger. 
They  order  me  into  the  country,  and  I  am  going  there  If  I 
live  over  the  summer,  which,  however,  I  don't  expect,  I  pro- 
mise you  a  very  interesting  pamphlet  about  Junius.  I  will 
put  my  name  to  it.  I  will  set  that  question  at  rest  for 
ever."  But  there  must  have  been  misapprehension  or  inac- 
curacy in  the  report  of  this  conversation,  since  it  is  doubtful 
whether  Lord  Shelbume,  then  the  Marquis  of  Lansdowne, 
knew  Junius.  The  present  Marquis  was  appealed  to  some 
years  later  by  Sir  R.  Phillips,  and  was  informed  by  him 
that  he  had  never  heard  Lord  Shelburne  say  that  he  knew 
the  author.  **  It  is  not  impossible,"  his  Lordship  said,  "  my 
Either  may  have  been  acquainted  with  the  fact,  but  was  per- 


LORD  SHELBDRKE  AND  SIR.   RICHARD    PHILUPS.       XXVU 

haps  under  some  obligation  to  secrecy,  as  he  never  made  any 
oonununication  lo  me  upon  the  subject." — Monthly  Magazine, 
July,  1813. 

Thinking  that  in  the  long  interval  which  had  elapsed  some- 
thing  further  might  have  occurred  to  Lord  Lansdowne,  I 
reminded  the  Marquis  of  his  answer  to  Sir  R.  Phillips.  With 
his  wonted  courtesy  his  Lordship  promptly  replied,  March 
25,  1860,  as  follows:— 

"  Lord  lansdowne  has  much  pleasure  in  answeriog  the  inquiry  contained 
in  a  letter  which  he  has  received  this  mominf?  from  Mr.  Wade,  althongh  he 
is  afraid  that  answer  will  give  him  little  information  or  satis£akction.  He 
remembers  to  have  answered  a  question  put  to  him  by  the  late  Sir  Kichard 
Phillips,  nearly  in  the  terms  mentioned  by  that  gentleman ;  but,  although  it 
was  '  not  impossible'  that  his  &ther  might  have  been  acquainted  with  the 
name  of  the  author  of  Junius,  or  known  him  personally.  Lord  Lansdowne's 
belief  is  tkcU  he  was  not,  and  his  conviction  is  quite  clear,  at  all  events,  that  he 
WHS  not,  as  has  been  sometimes  supposed,  though  without  the  slightest  proof, 
the  author  himself.'' 

Upon  the  whole,  the  conclusion  seems  amply  established 
that  Lord^^hgUuime  was  not  Junius ;  nor  is  it  probable  that 
be  knewliim^ 

I  should  not  revert  to  the  evidence  against  Burke,  but  from 
a  recent  occurrence.  Within  a  few  days  I  have  heard  a  noble 
Lord,  who,  some  thirty  years  past,  had  ably  sifted  the  question, 
declare  emphatically  that  he  was  '*  convinced  that  the  mi?id 
of  Burke  was  in  Junius ;  he  did  not  care  for  the  difiPerenco 
observable  in  their  styles.  Burke  had  wonderful  powers  of 
Gomposition,  and  could  imitate  any  style.  He  might  havo 
employed  Francis,  or  any  other  person,  as  his  amanuensis,  or 
lo  do  the  *  conveyancing  part ;'  but  he  was  thoroughly  con- 
vinced, upon  as  strong  testimony  as  would  convict  any  one  at 
the  Old  Bailey,  that  Burke  was  the  author  of  the  Letters,  and 
that  there  was  no  other  eontemporaiy  of  Junius  capable  of  it." 
All  this  was  doubtless  uttered  in  momentary  forgetfulness^ 
of  his  Lordship's  masterly  array  of  proofs  to  the  contrary,  and 
shows  the  need  of  keeping  compact  the  evidence  against  Burke, 
to  piweSt  similar  emr 

First  against  Burke  are  his  own  three  separa-te  denials 
in  one  instance,  to  Lord  Townshend ;  next,  when  asked  by  Sir 
William  Draper :  these  may  be  demurred  to,  on  the  plea  of 
in  author's  admitted  right  to  disavow,  if  interrogated,  writings 
which  he  has  published  anonymously ;  but  his  third  denial  to 
Dr.  Johnson  was  not  upon  interrogatory ;  it  was  spontaneoas 


AXVlli  THE   HISIX  RY   AKD   DISCOVEBT  OB'  JUNIUS. 

(ante,  p.  xx.) ;  and  his  standing  answer  tx)  all  who  teased  him 
on  the  subject  of  the  Letters  was,  **  I  could  not  if  T  would,  and 
I  would  not  if  I  could"  Besides,  how  could  Burke  have  de- 
scribed Junius  in  the  transports  he  has  done  *  had  he  been 
the  author?  How  could  he  have  depicted  him  as  the  bir^  of 
**  daring  flight,"  who  came  "  souse  upon  buth  Houses  of  Par- 
liament ;"  who  carried  off  "  their  royal  eagle  [the  Speaker] 
in  his  pounces ;"  who  made  "  King,  Lords,  and  Commons  the 
sport  of  his  fury ;"  and  then  conclude,  pr  rather  begin,  with 
not  much  congruity  of  metaphor,  by  describing  Junius  as 
"  the  mighty  boar  of  the  forest,"  that  had  broke  through  all  the 
toils  of  the  law  ?  No  gentleman  could  have  possibly  indulged 
in  such  unmeasured  praise  of  his  own  exploits.  But  what 
decisively  negatives  his  complicity,  is  .the  feet  that  Mr.  Burke, 
during  the  middle  and  all  the  latter  period  of  his  life,  lived 

^ou  terms  of  the  closest  intimacy  and  friendship  with  Junius ; 
knew  him,  esteemed  him,  and  always  considered  him  to  be 
Junius.    Proof  of  this  will  be  adduced  in  the  sequel. 

One  of  the  wildest  conjectures  has  been,  the  ascription  of, 
the  Letters  to  the  Earl  of  Chesterfield.  An  extreme  of  this 
pitch  might  have  been  passed  unnoticed,  were  it  not  for  the 
curious  illustration  it  affords  of  the  lengths  to  which  literary 
ingenuity  has  been  stretched  for  four-fifths  of  a  century  in 
quest  of  an  author.  But  how  could  Chesterfield  be  the  great 
unknown  ?  That  ^e  Earl's  talents  were  of  a  very  superior 
cast ;  that  they  were  solid  as  well  as  shining,  may  be  unre- 
servedly conceded :  but  these  had  become  paralysed  when  the 
author  of  the  Letters  flourished.  At  the  very  time  Junius 
was  scattering  his  fiery  darts,  Chesterfield  had  sunk  into  the 

^  lowest  abyss  of  misery.  Extreme  old  age,  physical  maladies 
that  excluded  him  from  society,  and  the  entire  frustration  of 
long  cherished  hopes,  had  overwhelmed  him ; — he  was  en- 
tombed in  his  great  house  in  May  Fair.  His  only  son,  on 
whom  he  had  bestowed  such  anxious  teaching  in  worldly  arts, 
in  which  he  himself  excelled,  but  who  was  of  a  nature  wholly 
different,  had  died ;  leaving  mortifying  evidence  of  a  course  of 
life  directly  the  reverse  of  the  paternal  precepts.    Amidst  all 

^these  griefs  is  it  likely  that  his  Lordship  could  be  urging  on- 
ward the  impetuous  car  of  Junius  ?  Is  it  possible  that  he  could 
be  occupied  in  a  task  requiring  so  many  physical  and  Intel 
lectual.  resources,  as  by  sone  have  been  thought  bejond  thi 

•  Toll  p.  4. 


CLAIMS  OF  COLONEL    BARBE.  XXIX 


powers  of  any  single  individual  ?  Most  assuredly  not.  Besides,  / 
the  old  Earl  died  when  Junius  was  in  full  career*. 

Despite  of  these  stubborn  facts,  there  have  been  and  still 
we  writers  endeavouring  to  prove  Lord  Chesterfield  to  have 
been  Junius.  In  1821  a  respectable  volume  appeared,  headed 
with  a  motto  from  Lord  Mansfield  on  the  true  nature  of 
evidence,  and  with  a  specious  show  of  facts,  with  the  title 
"  The  Author  of  Junius  discovered  in  the  person  of  the  cele 
brated  Earl  of  Chesterfield."  And  at  this  moment  I  have 
beibre  me  the  first  part  of  a  work  in  the  press,  apparently 
intended  to  be  of  considerable  dimensions,  kindly  lent  me  by 
the  author  (Mr.  Cramp),  the  object  of  which  is  to  prove  Ches- 
terfield to  have  been  Junius  by  a  comparison  of  their  writings. 

The  only  other  candidate  upon  whom  I  have  remarks  to 
offer  in  the  present  section  is  Uie  celebrated  Colonel  Babbe. 
In  the  Colonel  there  were  certainly  materials  to  make  a  Junius 
with  a  fair  show  of  probability,  and  Mr.  Britton  has  advocated 
his  claims  with  much  ingenuity.  Barre  was  the  Danton  of 
his  day ;  an  athlete  in  frame,  with  a  stem,  uncompromising 
oonntenance.  His  oratory  was  somewhat  coarse  but  powerful, 
and  flashed  bold  sententious  truths,  like  Mirabeau*s.  His 
life,  which  has  never  been  deservedly  told  f,  was  full  of  adven- 
ture and  heroism.  He  was  one  of  a  group  of  officers  round 
the  flallant  Wolfe  when  he  fell  on  the  Plains  of  Abraham,  and 
was  himself  dangerously  wounded.  During  Lord  North's  mi- 
nistry he  was  a  leading  man  in  Parliament,  and  delivered  his 
ablest  speeches ;  defending  the  past  conduct  and  present  re- 
sistance of  the  American  colonists,  and  severely  reprobating 
the  mistaken  coarse  of  government.  Still  Barre  was  not  Ju- 
nius, though  evidently  endowed  with  many  of  his  gifts,  and  ^ 
nearly  allied  to  him  in  political  sentiment  and  party  con- 
nection. It  is  not  unlikely  that  he  wras  the  author  of  the 
Letter  addressed  in  1760  to  "An  Honourable  Brigadier- 
General  ; "  which  has  been  tvdce  brought  before  the  public, 
from  supposed  resemblance  of  style,  as  a  production  of  Junius: 
once  by  a  correspondent  of  the  Oentleman^s  Magazine  in  1817 ; 
and  again  by  Mr.  Simons,  of  the  library  of  the  British  Museum, 
;  in  1841 .  But  the  negatives  against  Barr6  may  be  soon  stated, 
j  First,  hfl  wfluH^ftjnfliptvftr  of  Pftrliflmftnt^  and  did  not  require 

I    *  Jon*  4, 1772,  according  to  Debrett'i  Peerage. 

t   t  Xr.  Britton'f  account  oi  the  Colonel,  in  his  Jwniut  Elucidated,  if  the 

pOat  and  moil  origbaL    See  Bair^a  Letters,  Appendix,  p.  417. 

c  2 


XXX  THE   UI8T0BT   AND   DISCOVEBY   07   JUNIUS. 

for  admission,  as  Junius  did,  that. the  doors  should  be  open 
to  strangers.  Secondly,  he  began  his  parliamentary  life  by  a 
bitter  persontd  attack  on  the  Earl  of  Chatham,  a  statesman 
whom  Junius  always  greatly  admired.  Thirdly,  the  incidents 
in  the  life  of  Barre  do  not  coincide  with  the  career  of  Junius. 
Had  Barre  been  the  author,  the  Bowood*  politicians  would 
in  all  likelihood  have  known  him,  and  Dunning  would  have 
saved  Junius  from  legal  blunders.  But  if  Barre  was  Junius, 
why  should  he  deny  it?  What  motives  could  he  have  for 
concealment,  though,  as  will  be  shown  hereafter,  Junius  had 
imperative  ones  ?  Why  just  come  out  in  1767,  or  1 769,  and 
then  disappear  in  1773,  and  never  be  again  heard  of?  Beasonn 
must  be  given  for  all  these  eccentricities. 


.  11.  AUTHORSHIP  OF  JUNIUS  IDENTIFIED- 

In  the  history  of  celebrated  individuals,  as  in  the  history  ol 
nations,  there  is  a  fabulous  era.  Among  the  ancients  a 
descent  from  the  gods  occupied  the  first  pages  of  a  heroes 
biography,  but  the  modems  are  satisfied  with  terrestrial 
honours — with  tracing  a  pedigree  to  William  the  Conqueror, 
Charlemagne,  or  Iwan  the  Great.  The  genealogical  chapter 
dismissed,  the  next  is  usually  devoted  to  nursery  tales  of  the 
auspicious  omens  that  hovered  over  the  birth  of  the  future 
prodigy,  or  details  of  the  extraordinary  juvenile  feats  that 
shadowed  the  after  warrior,  statesman,  or  philosopher.  As 
the  life  advances  the  wonderful  diminishes ;  its  meridian 
splendour  may  justly  command  admiration,  but  it  seldom 
so  far  transcends  the  average  of  humanity  as  to  leave  unmixed 
impressions  of  supernatural  genius  or  perfection. 

A  gradation  of  a  similar  kind  pertains  to  the  history  of 

4^  Junius.     It  began  in  fable,  astonished  in  its  midway  progress, 

^    long  perplexed  in  its  inscrutable  mystery,  but  at  last  all  is 

unravelled,  and  shown  to  have  been  both  possible  and  natnraL 

/^The  fictitious  assumptions  of  Junius  were  essential  to  influenoej 

public  opinion.     That  he  accomplished  his  purpose  triumph 

antly;   tbat»  under  so  many  temptations,  he  preserved  his 

•  Seat  of  the  Marquis  of  Lansdowne. 


DISCOVERY   OF  JUXIUS.  XXXI 

incogijito  inviolate  ;  that  moving  actively  and  conspicuously 
m  society,  he  constantly  eluded  the  most  eager  search  aft43r 
him;  and  that,  after  more  than  half  a  century  of  diligent  J^ 
inquiry,  there  was  not  a  single  proximate  guess  at  his  iden- 
tity, are  remarkable  facts  in  personal  adventure,  testifying 
largely  to  the  extraordinary  address  and  ability  of  the  author. 
But  everything  must  have  an  end,  and  why  not  the  enigma  of 
Junius  ? 

The  foundation  of  the  discovery  was  laid  by  Woodfall's  edi- 
tion of  1812.     Had  the  public  never  known  any  edition  of    / 
the  Letters  except  that  revised  by  Junius  himself,  it  is  proba-    ' 
ble  the  author  would  have  remained  even  unsuspected.     But 
the  "Private  Letters"  Nos.  61  and  62,  and  the  "Miscel- 
laneous Letters"  subscribed  Veteran,   Scotus,   and  Nemesis  •' 
afforded  a  clue,  of  which  an   ingenious  inquirer  success- 
fully availed  himself*.   In  these  letters  (No.  110)  a  name 
escaped,  the  name  of  one  likely  to  be  personally  interested  in 
the  subject  of  some  of  the  writings  of  Junius ;  that  person  still 
lived,  was  an  eminent  public  character,  known  to  possess 
superior  abilities,  greater  than  the  world,  and  those  not  inti- 
mately acquainted  with  him,  gave  him  credit  for.     Upon  this 
person  Mr.  Taylor  fixed,  dragged  him  out,  and  was  the  first 
to  challenge  as  the  long  sought  Junius. 

All,  however,  were  not  satisfied.  The  proofs  were  strong, 
and  able  judges  acquiesced;  still  doubts  were  raised,  mys- 
teries remained  unexplained,  and  certain  superiorities  were 
urged  as  distinguishing  Junius  from  his  assumed  represent- 
ative. The  accused  himself  was  silent ;  he  was  called  upon 
to  answer;  he  would  neither  confess  nor  positively  deny 
the  charge,  but  left  the  world  to  make  the  discovery.  In  this 
state  the  question  has  remained,  and  here  I  take  it  up,  briefly 
recapitulating  the  leading  points  of  Mr.  Taylor's  discovery, 
and  suppling  the  needful  links  in  the  chain  of  testimony. 

In  two  directions  Mr.  Taylor  fell  into  error.  First,  iu 
adopting  the  entire  of  the  "  Miscellaneous  Letters  **  as  from 
the  pen  of  Junius,  by  which  his  investigation  was  embarrassed 
and  he  was  led  to  conclusions  inconsistent  with  the  integrity 
of  purpose  and  strict  consistency  which  pervade  the  authorized 
letters  of  the  author.  Secondly,  he  fell  into  one  of  the  snares 
Junius  had  adroitly  laid  for  inquirers.  Misled  by  one  of 
tboae  well-eontrived  feints  that  were  meant  to  mislead,  Mr. 

*  Mr.  Taylor,  in  hii  Jwnifu  IdetUffitcL 


IXXll  THE   UISTOBI   AND   DIBCOVEBT   OF  JUNIUS. 

Taylor  inferred  that  Junius  must  be  *'  an  old  man"  or  well 
stricken  in  years,  and  under  this  impression  fastened  on  the 
father  in  lieu  of  the  son*.  Philip  Francis,  P.P. .  was  not 
without  weighty  claims  to  the  ailthOfsEip!  He^as  a  classical 
scholar,  celebrated  for  masterly  translations  of  Hoi  ace  and 
Demosthenes,  lived  on  intimate  terms  with  persons  of  rank, 
especially  statesmen,  was  himself  the  author  of  several 
political  pamphlets,  and  in  his  writings  openly  cherished 
liberal  sentiments.  Hence,  in  the  first  instance,  he  was 
naturally  thought  to  be  a  competent  Junius,  and  the  younger 
Francis,  whom  Mr.  Taylor  had  mistakenly  concluded  to  be 
a  minor,  was  supposed  to  have  aided  his  father,  by  pro- 
curing intelligence,  copying  the  Letters  for  the  press,  ^nd 
doing  perhaps  **  the  conveyancing  part "  with  Woodfall.  But 
on  discovering  Mr.  Francis  to  be  ten  years  older  than  he  had 
at  first  been  led  to  believe,  Mr.  Taylor  revised  his  calcula'- 
tions,  and  found,  in  the  antecedents  of  his  life,  in  his  apt 
scholarship  and  superior  talents,  his  position  in  the  War  Office, 
knowledge  of  public  characters,  and  varied  official  experience, 
that  he  was  adequate  to  fulfil  every  condition  of  the  Junius 

problem ;  and  this  was  further  confirmed  by  his  remarkable 

character  and  personal  history.     Under  these  new  impressions 

\       Mr.  Taylor  resumed  his  investigation,  and  in  the  end  relin- 

^  V    quished  the  father  to  concentrate  his  labours  on  the  son. 

^     The  proofs  which  Mr.  Taylor  has  adduced  to  identify  Sb 

Philip  Francis  with  Junius  are  of  three  kinds  f :  first,  the 

/  correspondence  of  dates  and  incidents  in  the  life  of  Sir  Philip, 
with  the  dates  and  incidents  in  the  publication  of  the  Letters ; 
secondly,  the  correspondence  between  the  style,  sentiment,  and 
ability  of  the  Letters,  with  the  known  writings  and  speeches 

.  of  Sir  Philip  Francis ;  thirdly,  the  resemblance  between  the 

I  handwriting  of  Junius  and  Francis. 

Sir  Philip  Francis  was  bom  in  Dublin,  in  1740.  TTib 
father.  Dr.  Francis,  has  been  adverted  to  as  well  known  in  the 
lea,med  world,  and  among  the  great.  His  grandfather  was 
Dean  of  Lismore,  in  Ireland.  In  1750,  Sir  Philip  came  to 
England.    In  1753  he  was  placed  at  St.  Paul's  School,  and 

*  "  A  Diflooyerj  of  tbe  Author  of  tbe  Letters  of  Joniiis."  Lond.  1818. 
This  first  attempt  of  Mr.  Taylor  preceded  the  publication  of  Junius  IdejUi/ied 
by  three  years. 

f  **  The  Identity  of  Junius  with  a  Dietingnished  Living  Ghaneter  eata^ 
^hed."    Second  edition.    Lond.  1818. 


EABLY  HISTORY   OF   SIK  F.   F1UNCI8.  XXX ill       \ 

he  «uid  Philip  Eosenbagen,  who  ^as  once*  thought  to  be 
Junius,  were  considered  by  Dr.  Thicknesse,  the  master,  his 
cleverest  pupils.  Mr.  H.  Woodfall,  afterwards  the  printer  Z' 
of  the  Letters,  was  at  the  school  at  the  same  time.  At  this 
eariy  period,  Lady  Francis  relates  that  young  Francis  used 
CO  associate  with  men  at  the  ''  table  d'  Jbote  at  Slaughter's 
Coffeehouse,  when  his  father,  who  was  Lord  Holland's  chaplain^ 
used  to  dine  out."  In  1756  Lord  Holland  gave  young 
Francis  a  place  in  the  Secretary  of  State's  office.  The  EarL 
of  Chatham,  who  succeeded  Lord  Holland,  continued  to 
encourage  him,  and  made  him  his  Latin  Secretary.  Through 
this  patronage  he  was  appointed  in  1758  secretary  to  General 
Bligh,  and  was  present  at  the  capture  of  Cherbourg.  In 
1760,  by  the  same  recommendation,  he  was  appointed  secre- 
tary to  the  Earl  of  Eannoul,  ambassador  to  Lisbon,  and 
between  this  year  and  1763  it  is  likely  he  paid  the  visit 
to  the  court  of  Louis  XV.  mentioned  by  Lady  Francis*. 
In  1763,  Lord  Meudip,  then  Secretary  at  War,  appointed  him 
to  a  considerable  post  in  the  War  Office,  which  he  resigned  in 
the  beginning  of  1772,  in  consequence  of  a  difference  with 
Lord  Barrington,  by  whom  he  thought  himself  injured,  his 
Lordship  having  appointed  Mr.  Chamier,  instead  of  himself, 
Deputy  Secretary  at  War.  The  greatest  part  of  1772  Mr. 
Francis  spent  in  travelling  on  the  Continent ;  he  visited  Eome, 
and  bad  a  long  audience  of  the  Pope,  of  which  he  sent  a 
curious  account  to  his  friend,  Dr.  Campbell,  and  which  is 
among  the  manuscripts  of  Sir  Philip,  in  possession  of  his 
grandson.  It  would  seem  that  Lord  Barrington  considered 
Mr.  Francis  to  have  be^n  wronged,  as  his  Lordship,  in  about 
half  a  year  after  his  return  to  England,  recommended  him  to 
Lord  North  as  a  fit  person  to  be  a  member  of  the  government 
of  Bengal.  In  the  month  of  June,  1773,  Mr.  Francis  left 
England  in  company  with  General  Clavenng  and  Colonel 
Jionson,  the  two  other  gentlemen  who  had  been  named  in  the 
Act  of  Parliament,  to  co-operate  in  the  future  government  of 
India. 

Farther  than  this  period  it  is  not  essential  at  present  to    < 
follow  the  history  of  Sir  Philip  Francis.    The  first  authentic  \  ">• 
public  letter  of  Junius  is  dated  January  21,  1769,  and  his 
tint  private  note  to  Woodfall,  April  20,  1769.      His  last 

*  Janiiu  allodefl,  in  Letter  21,  p.  175,  to  hit  presence  in  Parii  at  the 
kiming  of  the  Jesuitical  books^  Augiist,  176L 


THE  HJ8T0BT  AND   DISOOTERT  OF  JUNIUS. 

public  letter,  uuder  the  signature  '*  Junius,"  is  dated  Janaiuy 
21,  1772,  and  his  last  miscellaneous  letter,  under  the  signa- 
ture of  **  Nemesis,"  is  dated  May  12, 1772.    The  last  private 
note   Junius   addressed   to   Woodfall  is  dated  January  19, 
,    1773.     He  addressed  no  letter  to  Wilkes  of  a  later  date 
\  than  November  7,  1771,     So  that  Sir  P.  Francis  was  passing 
from  his  twenty-ninth  to  his  thirty -second  year  during  the 
publication  of  all  the  Letters  that  are  authentically  avowed 
or  known  to  be  by  Junius. 
V        In  respect  of  age,  therefore,  I  think  no  valid  ground  exists 
^  for  doubting  the  capabilities  of  Sir  P.  Francis  to  enact  the 
part  of  Junius.     He  was  four  years  older  than  Pitt,  when 
he  became  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer  and  Prime  Minister 
of  England.     Napoleon,  before  he  reached  his  twenty-ninth 
year,  had  conquered  Italy,  and  evinced  administrative  powers, 
in  the  organization  of  the  civil  government  of   the  Italian 
Peninsula,  fully  equal,  if  not  superior,  to  any  he  displayed  in 
after  life.      For  political  writing  Francis  had  attained  that 
period  of  life  when  ambitious  hopes  and  intellectual  vigour 
are  usually  the  most  efficient,  provided,  as  was  peculiarly  the 
■   case  with  him,  there  had  been  previous  educational  culture, 
.    attention  to  public  affairs,  official  experience,  and  general 
intercourse  with  the  world. 

The  circumstances  which  led  Mr.  Taylor  to  suspect  Sir 
Philip  Francis,  his  reference  to  him  in  consequence,  and  Sir 
Philip's  reply,  I  shall  let  Mr.  Taylor  narrate. — 

"  Nearly  at  tbe  end  of  the  third  volome  I  was  struck  with  the  nnpanl^ 
leled  zeal  which  the  writer  displayed  in  the  cause  of  two  individuals  belong 
ing  to  the  War  Office.  It  appeared  that  Mr.  D'Oyley,  a  clerk  in  that  estate 
lishment,  had  a  short  time  before  been  deprived  of  his  situation,  through  the 
interference  of  Lord  Barrington ;  and  the  writer  of  the  letter  to  which  T 
allude  desires  Mr.  Wood&ll  to  inform  the  public,  '  that  the  worthy  Lord 
Barrington,  not  contented  with  having  driven  Mr.  D'Oyley  out  of  the  War 
Office,  had  at  last  contrived  to  expel  Mr.  Francis.'  *  The  Editor  states  in  a 
note,  that  this  was  the  present  Sir  Philip  Francis.  Surprised  at  the  occur- 
rence of  an  intervention  so  extraordinary,  I  considered  what  grounds  there 
might  be  for  thinking  that  either  of  the  offended  persons  could  have  been  the 
writer ;  or  whether  any  one  of  their  immediate  relatives  had  thus  voluntewed 
himself  to  advocate  their  cause.  The  political  and  literary  character  of  Sir 
\  Philip  Francis  caused  my  suspicions  to  fitU  on  him.  Upon  reference  to  a 
memoir  of  his  life  in  the  Public  Characters,  I  saw  sufficient  evidence,  as  I 
thought,  to  confirm  my  conjecture.  The  impression  made  by  the  facts  there 
lelated  was  strengthened  by  a  comparison  of  style.     From  these  materials  I 

*  Miiicellaneoas  Lettei%  No.  110,  p.  405;  iignfttuiep  YetetaiL 


APPLICATION  TO  SIB    PHILIP  FRANCIS.  XXXf 

drew  Wf  my  statement,  and  in  agreement  with  my  own  opinion  called  it  a 
Discovery  of  the  Author  of  the  Letters. 

^*  Before  it  went  to  press  I  requested  a  friend  to  call  on  Sir  Philip  Francis, 
and  informed  him,  that  if  he  had  the  slightest  objection  to  have  his  name 
connected  with  the  investigation  he  might  rely  on  the  total  suppression  of  the 
work.  I  am  satisfied  this  communication  waa  made  in  a  way  which  most 
have  convinced  Sir  Philip  that  it  proceeded  solely  from  respect  to  his  feelings, 
and  that  what  was  proposed  would  be  performed.  It  was,  perhaps,  due  to 
him  that  not  a  step  should  be  taken  without  his  permission ;  nor  could  his 
reiusid  betray  him  into  an  implied  admission  of  the  truth  of  the  charge.  A 
ample  negative  would  leaTe  it  still  undetermined  whether  his  aversion  pro- 
ceeded £rom  a  dread  of  the  disclosure,  or  from  a  tender  respect  for  his  Other's 
memory,  or  from  a  natural  dislike  to  that  free  discussion  of  his  own  character 
and  qualifications  which  the  question  of  necessity  required.  His  reply  was 
such  as  might  be  expected  : —  *  You  are  quite  at  liberty  to  print  whatever  you 
think  proper,  providing  nothing  scandalous  be  said  respecting  my  private 
character/ 

"  Soon  after  the  appearance  of  the  pamphlet,  the  editor  of  the  JdontMy 
Magazifu,  intending  to  notice  it  in  that  work,  wrote  to  Sir  Philip  Francis,  to 
ask  him  whether  the  conjecture  was  correct.  The  editor  did  not  recollect  ^e 
distinction  drawn  by  that  strict  moralist.  Dr.  Johnson,  between  spontaneous 
and  extorted  acknowledgments ;  or,  probably,  he  would  not  have  taken  the 
trouble  to  make  this  application  : — 

"'  Boswell. — Suppose  the  person  who  wrote  Junius  were  asked  whether 
he  was  the  author,  might  he  deny  it  % 

" '  Johnson. — I  don't  know  what  to  say  to  this.  If  you  were  sure  that  he 
wrote  Junius,  would  yon,  if  he  denied  it,  think  as  well  of  him  afterwards  1 
Tet  it  may  be  urged,  that  what  a  man  has  no  right  to  ask,  you  may  refrise  to 
commnnicate ;  and  there  is  no  other  effectual  mode  of  preserving  a  secret, 
and  an  important  secret,  the  discovery  of  which  may  be  very  hurtful  to  you, 
but  a  fl4U  denial ;  for  if  you  are  silent,  or  hesitate,  or  evade,  it  will  be  held 
equivalent  to  a  confession.  But  stay.  Sir,  here  is  another  case.  Supposing 
the  author  had  told  me  confidentially  that  he  had  written  Junius,  and  I  were 
asked  if  he  had,  I  should  hold  myself  at  liberty  to  deny  it,  as  being  under  a 
ptevions  promise,  express  or  implied,  to  conceal  it.  Now,  what  I  ought  to  do 
for  the  author,  may  I  not  do  for  myself  1 '  * 

**  Had  the  editor  of  the  Monthly  Magagme  looked  for  an  affvnnaMve  to  his 
faestion,  he  should  have  recollected  that  he  was  not  addressing  one 

" '  Who  would  be  wooed,  and  not  unsought  be  won,* 

to  make  the  confession.  Some  obstacles,  it  might  have  been  supposed,  were 
still  in  the  way  of  such  an  admission,  or  as  soon  as  he  was  publicly  affirmed 
to  be  the  autiior,  Sir  Philip  Francis  would  have  owned  the  fitct,  without 
waiting  for  the  decent  opportunity  afforded  by  the  ingenious  editor.  If,  on 
the  other  hand,  a  direct  contradiction  was  contemplated,  the  reasoning  of  Dr. 
Johnson  shows  that  not  much  faith  was  due  to  that.  Of  an  evasive  answer, 
it  seems  that  no  suspicion  was  entertained  :  the  editor  thought,  'good  easy 
1,  fell  surely,'  that  either  yes  or  no  would  be  the  frank  reply,  and  in  his 

opinion  he  obtained  the  latter. 
**  When  Junius  wished  to  disavow  a  letter  published  under  his  name,  and 

*  Bo8well*s  Life  of  Johnson,  iv.  34i. 


TXXTi  THE   HI8T0BT  AND  DISCOVERY  OF  JTINIUS. 

actually  writien  hy  himself,  be  would  not  sufTer  the  printer  flatly  to  deny  iti 
:iuthenticity,  but  he  instmcted  him  to  get  rid  of  it  by  a  side  win  J.  He  de- 
jnred  Wood&U  to  'lecair  the  letter,  but  in  such  equiyocal  terms  as  would 
effect  the  purpose  without  directly  committing  the  integrity  of  the  writer. 
'  Suppose  you  were  to  say — We  have  some  reason  to  suspect  that  the  last 
letter  signed  Junius,  in  this  paper,  was  not  written  by  the  real  Junius, 
though  the  observation  escaped  us  at  the  time. — Or,  if  yon  can  hit  off  any- 
thing  yourself  more  plaustbUt  yon  will  much  oblige  me,  hvi  without  a  positive 
assertion.**  Wood£dl  took  the  hint,  and  deprived  that  letter  of  its  legiti^ 
macy  by  the  following  note : — *  We  have  some  reason  to  suspect  that  the  last 
letter  signed  Junius,  inserted  in  this  paper  of  Thursday  hist,  was  not  written 
by  the  real  Junius,  though  we  imagine  it  to  have  been  sent  by  some  one  of 
his  waggish  friends,  who  has  taken  great  pains  to  write  in  a  manner  similar 
to  that  of  Junius,  which  observation  escaped  us  at  that  time.  The  printer 
takes  the  libertv  to  hint  that  it  will  not  do  a  second  time.'i* 

"  Assuming,  for  the  sake  of  argument,  that  Sir  Philip  Francis  was  the 
author  of  the  Letters,  it  would  follow  that,  were  he  placed  in  the  same 
dilemma  in  which  Ju.iius  on  this  occasion  found  himself,  his  conduct  would, 
m  all  likelihood,  be  similar  to  that  which  Junius  adopted.  Unwilling  tc 
iicknowledge,  yet  unable  to  deny,  he  would  doubtless  seek  shelter  in  ambi' 
guous  terms.  He  would  strive  to  convey  that  meaning  by  the  spirit,  which 
in  strictness  would  not  follow  from  the  letter,  of  his  reply.  He  would  dis- 
claim the  thing  hypotheticaUy.  '  There  is  much  virtue  in  an  if  J  It  would 
be  done,  we  may  be  sure,  in  a  plausible  manner,  btU  without  a  positive 
assertion, 

**  Let  it  be  observed,  that  it  is  only  the  author  of  the  Letters  of  Junius  who 
can  be  expected  to  act  in  this  maimer.  No  other  man  is  bound  by  the  pre- 
cedent ;  nor  have  we  a  right  to  suppose  that  any  man  but  the  real  author 
would  hesitate  to  give  a  plain  and  unequivocal  answer  to  the  question,  Ary 
you  Junius  t 

**  It  suits  neither  my  purpose  nor  my  inclination,  to  give  a  wrong  colouring 
to  this  singular  af&ir.  The  following  extract  from  the  MonJOdy  Magadnt 
will  show  the  reader  the  exact  nature  of  the  question  put  to  Sir  Philip  Ffbb- 
cis,  and  in  what  guarded  terms  he  couched  his  reply. 

"Speaking  of  the  pamphlet  which  contains  the  charge,  'We  confesa/ 
says  the  editor  of  the  Magazine, '  we  were  at  first  startled  by  this  hypothesis, 
from  its  temerity ;  because,  if  not  true,  Sir  Philip  Francis  would  be  able, 
by  a  word,  to  disprove  it ;  and  it  could  not  be  supposed  that  so  much  labour 
and  expense  would  be  hauurded  except  on  indubitable  grounds.  To  be  able, 
therefore,  to  render  this  article  as  conclusive  as  possible,  we  addressed  Sir 
Phuip  Francis  on  the  subject,  in  the  way  the  least  likely  to  render  the 
inquiry  offensive,  and  in  reply  received  the  following  epistle,  which  we  insert 
at  length,  in  justice  to  Sir  Philip  and  the  public : — 

" '  Sir, — The  great  civility  of  your  letter  induces  me  to  answer  it,  whichf 
with  reference  merely  to  its  subject  matter,  I  should  have  declined.  Whether 
you  wiU  assist  in  giving  currency  to  a  silly  malignant  falsehood  is  a  ques- 
tion for  your  own  discretion.     To  me  it  is  a  matter  of  perfect  indifferenoe. 

«'Iam,Sir, 

"  *  Tours,  &c. 

'* '  To  the  Editor  of  the  Monthly  Jiagzdne.*  " '  P.  Franois. 

*  Private  Letter,  No.  8,  p.  22.     f  MisMUaneoiu  Letter  STote.  pott,  p.  S7 


SIB  PHILIP  Francis's  evasive  denials,     xxxvii 

*'  I  need  sol  ask  the  veader  wli**ther  this  letter  is  evasive  or  noL  He  will,- 
perbftps,  wonder  how  any  one  can  have  been  misled  by  it  fcT  a  moment  The 
edit(«>,  however,  with  a  simplicity  that  does  him  honour,  did  not  perceive  the 
fiitility  of  this  pretended  disavowal,  though  he  had  just  stated,  properly 
enough,  that  if  the  hypothesis  were  '  not  true,  Sir  Philip  Francis  would  be 
able,  by  a  v/ord,  to  disprove  it.'  It  certainly  is  not  so  disproved,  and  we  are 
therefore  authorized  to  conclude  that  it  could  not  fisiirly  be  disputed.  No  man 
who  had  it  in  his  power  to  give  a  simple  negative  to  such  a  question  would 
have  had  recourse  to  an  inuendo.  The  only  surprising  part  of  the  transaction 
is,  that  any  answer  should  have  been  returned  by  one  who  knew  he  could 
not  send  a  better.  But  perhaps  Sir  Philip  had  no  suspicion  that  it  would  be 
printed  verbatim  in  the  Monthly  Magazine*.  He  must  have  thought  the 
editor  of  that  publication  would  state  the  denial  in  his  own  way,  and  that  if 
an  impression  was  made  on  his  mind  in  the  first  instance,  the  public  would 
be  convinced  at  second  hand." 

The  patrician  dignity  in  which  Junius  had  masked  himself  i 
had  till  now  entirely  screened  Sir  P.  Francis  from  suspicion,  v 
but  Woodfairs  edition  immediately  brought  into  juxtaposi- 
tion the  important  fact,  that  a  distinguished  living  individual 
was  known  to  have  held  a  subordmate  place  in  the  War 
Office,  and  to  have  withdrawn  from  it  at  the  time  and  in 
the  manner  Junius  describes.  What  could  be  more  natural 
than  the  precise  inference  that  Mr.  Taylor  drew  from  this 
junction  of  occurrences  ? 

As  to  the  reply  of  Sir  Philip,  it  is  what  might  be  expected  \ 
from  his  character  and  anonymous  position.      If  he  were  * 
Junius,  he  was  free  to  deny  it  if  asked,  agreeably  with  the 
conventional  canon  in  such  cases ;  but  if  he  were  not  Ju-  / 
nius  he  was  not  free  to  return  such  an  equivocal  answer  as 
might  lead  the  world  to  believe  him  such,  or  even  have  a  doubt 
oh  the  subject     This  would  have  been  directly  and  unfairly 
misleading  for  a  personal  object,  and  is  wholly  inconsistent 
with  the  integrity  which  in  Sir  Philip  has  never  been  im- 
pugned.    But  upon  the  import  of  his  reply  to  the  editor  of 
the  Monthly  MdLgassme^  I  can  state  what  Mr.  Taylor  was    ' 
unable  to  do,  namely,  the  construction  Sir  Francis  himself 
put  upon  iib.     He  explained  to  Lady  Francis  that  his  answer  { 
to  Sir  Bichard  Phillips  "  was  no  denial,  apd  fools  only  could 
take  it  for  one.''    His  answers  to  other  inquirers  were  of 
similar  tendency,  sometimes  impatient  and  angry  even  to 
fierceness,  but  always  evasive.     To  one  he  said,  "I  have 
pleaded  not  guilty,  and  if  any  one  after  that  chooses  to  call 
me  scoundrel,  he  is  weh^ome."    To  another,  who  sa?!^    '  I  *d 

*  MovMy  Magazine,  July,  1818. 


y 


IXXVIU         THE   HISTORY  AND   DISCOVERT   OF  JUNIUS. 

fSedn  put  a  question  to  you,"  he  exclaimed,  *'  You  had  bette* 
not,  you  may  get  an  answer  you  won't  like."  To  a  third, 
'*  Oh,  they  know  I  am  an  old  man,  and  can  't  fight."     Lady 

\  Francis  says,  "  He  was  very  anxious  to  avoid  either  assent  or 
denial,  lest  he  might  implicate  trutli  or  honour."* 
I  The  personal  movements  of  Sir  Philip  Francis  coincide 
y4xactly  with  the  appearances  and  disappearances  of  Junius,  of 
I  which  any  one  may  satisfy  himself  by  comparing  the  dates  of 
\  the  Letters  with  the  chronological  summary  prsviously  given. 
From  1763  to  1772  Sir  Philip  was  in  the  WaA  Office,  and 
must  have  resided  in  or  near  London  ;  and  it  is  during  this 
period  that  all  the  Letters  ascribed  to  Junius  were  published. 
In  Veteran's  letter,  written  by  Junius,  and  dated  March  23, 
1772,  the  expulsion  of  Mr.  Francis  from  the  War  Office  is 
announced;  from  this  date  till  May  4,  Mr.  Woodfall  re- 
ceived no  communication  from  Junius.  Coincident  with  this 
interval  is  the  fact,  that  Dr.  Francis  was  then  ill  at  Bath, 
and  it  is  likely  that  Sir  Philip  went  to  see  him  before  going 
abroad.  All  the  subsequent  communications  of  Junius,  both 
to  the  public  and  Wdodfall,  were  concluded  early  in  May,  the 
last  on  the  12th,  and  from  this  date  the  Pyilic  AdverHser 
contained  no  more  attacks  on  Bradshaw  or  Chamier,  and  even 
Lord  Barrington  is  seldom  mentioned.  The  next  communi- 
cation he  received  from  Junius  was  in  January  of  the  follow- 
ing year,  and  from  that  time  Woodfall  heard  no  more  of  his 
eorrespondent.  With  this  suspension  Sir  Philip's  tour  on  the 
Continent;  exactly  tallies.  He  is  supposed  to  have  returned 
either  at  the  end  of  1772  or  beginning  of  1773,  and  the  last 
letter  the  printer  ever  received  from  Junius  is  dated  January 
19,  1773.  From  this  time  Junius  finally  disappeared. 
After  returning  from  the  Continent  it  is  probable  the  atten- 
tions of  Francis  were  again  directed  to  his  father's  illness. 
Dr.  Francis  dying  at  Bath,  March  5,  1773.  In  June  fol- 
lowing, Mr.  Francis  received  from  Lord  North,  on  the  recom- 
mendation of  Lord  Barrington,  as  already  stated,  his  appoint- 
ment to  the  Supreme  Council  of  Calcutta,  and  immediately 
sailed  for  India. 
^/  The  most  sceptical  person  cannot  fail  to  be  struck  by 
I  these  coincidences.  Just  as  Francis  moves  Junius  moves, 
\like  substance  and  shadow.     If  Francis  is  in  the  country, 

*  Lady  Fnmds'i  lettcc  to  Loid  Gampbell:  Lives  df  the  Chanoenor% 
foL  TL  p.  S44. 


COINCIDENCES  IN  JUNIUS  AND  FRANCIS.  XXXix 

Jonins  is  away :  if  Francis  is  abroad,  Junius  is  not  heard 
of  till  Lis  return.  If  Francis  is  aggrieved  by  abrupt 
dismissal  from  office,  Junius  suffers,  and  pours  out  the  vials 
of  his  wrath  against  all  the  offending  parties.  If  Francis 
finally  disappears  from  the  scene  by  removal  to  another  hemi- 
sphere, Junius  writes  no  more.  The  Siamese  twins  were  not 
more  closely  conjoined,  and  if  Junius  and  Francis  were  not 
identical,  it  seems  a  fair  inference  that  they  were  allied  by 
some  inseparable  tie. 

Other  correspondences  between  them  may  be  traced.     Ju- 
nius evincesan^intiiQal^.^^ 

tions  and  tlie  business  of  the  War  Office .  The  affair  of  General 
Gansei*  is  so  minutely  described  and  dwelt  upon,  that  it 
might  be  inferred  to  have  past  under  his  own  eyes.  But  what 
is  most  observable  of  him  is  his  extreme  jjajjl^ft  c\fot^rta]n 
otiScials  in  this  department,  comparatively  much  below  the 
ordinary  objects  of  nis  attacks,  especially  of  Mr.  Bradshaw  and 
Mr.  Ghamier,  both  of  whom  he  assails  in  terms  indicative  ot 
considerable  personal  animosity.  On  the  former  person,  in 
one  placet,  he  particularly  dwells,  remarking  that  Bradshaw 
was  too  *'  cunning  to  trust  to  Irish  security ;"  and  traces  his 
history  from  the  time  he  was  "  clerk  to  a  contractor  for  forage," 
till  he  found  himself  enabled  to  take  the  great  house  in  Lin- 
soln's  Inn  Fields,  where  Lord  Chancellor  Worthington  had 
lived.  In  another  place  ^  he  is  called  the  Duke  of  Grafton's 
'*  cream-coloured  parasite ;"  and  in  Letters  signed  Domitian 
and  Veteran  he  is  familiarly  meationejjd  as  "  Tommy  Bradshaw," 
and  the  "  cream-coloured  Mercury,"  whose  "sister.  Miss  Polly, 
like  the  moon,  lives  upon  the  light  of  her  brother's  countenance, 
and  robs  him  of  no  small  part  of  his  lustre."  Against  Mr. 
Chamier  the  fire  of  scorn  is  so  bitter  and  incessant,  that  no- 
thing less  than  personal  hate  and  jealousy  seem  capable  of 
producing  it.  He  is  termed  '*  Little  Shammy,"  the  "  wonder- 
ful Girgashite,  a  tight,  active  little  fellow,  that  would  wrangle 
foi*  an  eighth  as  if  bom  in  Jerusalem."  A  scene  is  figured 
between  Lord  Barrington,  his  patron,  and  a  general  officer,  in 
which  every  possible  ridicule  is  thrown  upon  Chamier.  Among 
other  opprobrious  epithets  he  is  stigmatized  as  a  **  little  gro- 
velling broker,"  "  little  three  per  cents,  reduced,"  "  a  mere 
scrip  of  a  secretary,"  '*  an  omnium  of  all  that's  genteel. "§  Foui 

*  Letter  No.  dO>  yol.  i.  p.  239.     f  Letter  36,  and  note,  vol.  i.  p.  27S. 
t  Lotter  57.  §  Miicellaneous  Letters,  No.  105. 


xl 


THE   HISTO(BY   AND   DISCOVERT   OP   JUNIUS. 


/v 


\ 


I 


\ 


fetters  ho  addressed  to  Lord  Barrington  in  the  most  abusive 
tone  of  invective,  in  consequence  of  Chamier's  promotion ;  and 
it  appears  that  bis  relationship  with  Bradshaw  formed  the 
chief  ground  of  his  attack  upon  the  latter. 

To  these  ignoble  feuds  Junius  did  not,  for  obvious 
reasons,  condescend  under  the  signature  that  had  become 
famous.  First,  Junius  was  a  name,  as  he  remarks  in  one 
place,  that  "  must  be  kept  up.*'  Secondly,  had  it  been 
known  that  Junius,  Veteran,  and  Nemesis  were  all  the  same 
writer,  it  might  have  fixed  attention  on  the  War  Office  as 
the  ambush  whence  the  envenomed  missiles  were  cast,  and 
where  Junius  himself  lurked,  and  who  might  really  be  one 
of  the  clerks  in  the  War  Department,  mortified,  perhaps,  by 
recent  changes.  Junius,  therefore,  had  urgent  motives  to 
prevent  his  identification  with  the  authorship  of  the  War- 
Office  letters,  and  hence  his  strict  injunction  to  Woodfall  to 
keep  the  author  a  secret* ;  that  is,  keep  the  secret  that  Ju- 
nius, Veteran,  and  Nemesis  are  the  same  writer.  That  such 
was  the  case,  and  that  Mr.  Francis  was  implicated  in  it ;  that 
he,  in  fact,  was  Junius,  would  seem  probable,  from  what  has 
been  previously  extracted,  but  especially  from  the  letter  dated 
March  23,  1772,  in  which  he  is  distinctly  named  f. 

But  the  War  Office  is  not  the  only  department  in  which 
Junius  evinced  peculiar  interest  With  the  transactions  oj 
the  Foreign  Office  he  appears  also  to  have  been  familiar, 
from  vanous  passages  in  his  public  and  private  correspond- 
ence. Thus  in  his  23rd  Letter  he  particularly  refers  to  the 
peace  negotiation  of  1763,  and  to  the  ^'callous  pride,"  but 
'*  English  stuff,"  of  Lord  Egremont,  and  to  the  conduct  of 
the  Duke  of  Bedford.  In  reference  to  llie  latter,  he  says, 
in  a  private  note,  that,  he  **  can  threaten  him  privately  with 
such  a'  storm  as  would  make  him  tremble  in  his  grave. "t 
Now  Sir  Philip  Francis  was  appointed  a  clerk  in  the  Foreign 
Office  in  1756,  and  did  not  leave  it  for  the  War  Department 
till  1763 ;  and  it  was  during  the  latter  part  of  this  period  that 
Lord  Egremont  was  Foreign  Secretaiy,  and  the  Duke  of  Bed* 
ford  negotiated  the  peace  of  1763. 

Junius  always  shows  great  regard  and  much  forbearance 
towards  the  family  of  Lord  Holland,  even  when  most  devoted 
to  Lord  Chatham,  their  powerful  adversary.  In  one  place 
he  says,  "  I  wish  Lord  Holland  may  acquit  himself  vaih 
*  Priv.  Letter  No.  62,  p.  60.    f  MiicelL  Letters,  No.  UO.    $  New  10^  p.  81 


JUNIUS.   FRANCIS,   AND   OABaiCK.  xli 

honour."  In  another:  "  I  designedly  spare  Lord  Holland." 
Such  forbearance  agrees  well  with  the  relation  in  which  Sir  P.  ^ 
Francis  stood  towards  the  Fox  family.  His  father  was  Lord^ 
Holland's  chaplain,  and  also  tutor  to  his  second  son,  Charles 
James ;  to  his  Lordship  Sir  Philip  owed  his  first  official 
appointment,  and  to  the  end  of  his  life  maintained  friendly  in- 
timacies with  Holland  House.  Junius  seems  always,  by  num- 
berless proofs,  to  have  had  a  singular  personal  kindness  for,  and 
confidence  in,  Mr.  Woodfall,  and  none  at  all  for  the  other  pub* 
Ushers  through  whom,  under  various  signatures,  he  addressed 
the  country.  "  The  spirit  of  your  letter,"  says  he  to  Wood- 
fell,  "  convinces  me  that  you  are  a  much  better  writer  than 
most  of  those  whose  works  you  publish."  Referring  to  his  trial, 
he  says,  "  Let  me  know  what  expense  falls  particularly  on  your- 
self, for  T  understand  you  are  engaged  with  other  proprietors ; 
some  way  or  other  you  shall  be  reimbursed."  Now,  it  appears 
from  what  has  been  stated,  that  Woodfall  had  been  a  school- 
fellow of  Sir  Philip,  and  that  they  were  on  friendly  terms 
through  life,  though  they  seldom  met.  Junius  on  one  occasion 
appeared  to  be  apprehensive  that  the  printer  had  found  him 
out,  and  he  entreats  him  to  be  candid,  and  say  *'  whether  he 
knew  or  suspected  him." 

There  is  reason  to  believe  that  Junius  was  known  to  Garrick. 
He  expresses  himself  much  alarmed,  by  the  exaggerated  impres- 
sion he  had  formed  of  the  pryings  of  the  latter*,  and  was  afraid 
lest  Woodfall  might  have  told  him  where  the  Letters  were  sent, 
which  he  desires  him  to  change.  He  writes  a  note  to  be  sent 
to  Garrick,  with  the  view  of  intimidating  him,  and  to  pre- 
vent him  from  meddling  and  endeavouring  to  trace  the  secret ; 
and  he  desires  Woodfell  to  copy  it  in  his  own  hand.  Such 
extreme  nervousness,  bordering  on  terror,  is  easily  accounted 
for  supposing  Junius  and  Francis  to  be  identical.  Dr.  Francis 
was  on  intimate  terms  with  Garrick,  and  dedicated  his  play 
01  "  Eugenia"  to  him;  and  most  likely  the  younger  Francis 
was  familiarly  known  to  Garrick,  and  perhaps  too  his  hand- 
writing. 

From  several  parts  of  the  correspondence  with  Woodfall, 
it  is  likely  Junius  frequently  delivered  the  letters  himself 
When  he  employed  anothei"  hand,  we  may  be  well  assured  i1 
was  that  of  a  porter,  or  other  ordinary  messenger,  as  was 
Moertained  in  one  instance  by  Wilkes,  who  examined  the 
y«tvon,  and  learnt  that  he  had  received  the  packet  from  a 

*  Yid«  Private  LeCtcn,  pp.  48  and  44. 


Xlii  THE   HISTORY   AND   DISCOVERT   OF  JUNIUS. 

ceutleman.  That  he  should  entrust  anybody  with  his  secret 
for  the  mere  purpose  of  conveying  the  Letters,  appears  highly 
improbable ;  and  to  have  given  a  packet  for  Woodfall  to  a  friend 
to  carry  would  have  been  telling  him  the  whole.  Now,  it 
appears  from  a  statement  already  inserted,  that  Mr.  Jackson 
once  saw  a  *'  tall  gentleman,  dressed  in  a  light  coat,  with  bag 
\  and  sword,"*  throw  into  Mr.  Woodfalls  office  a  Letter  of 
Junius  s,  and  that  he  followed  the  bearer,  who  drove  off  in  a 
hackney  coach.  The  account  given  by  Mr.  Jackson  answers 
very  well  to  the  portrait  preserved  of  the  person  of  Sir  P. 
Francis,  and  to  descriptions  I  have  heard  of  his  person  frou? 
gentlemen  who  knew  him. 

Besides  these  coincidences  of  personal  appearance,  of  the 


\lii8tory  of  Francis,  and  the  publication  of  the  Letters,  with 
V  the  other  direct  identifications,  an  important  chain  of  corrobo- 
^  \rative  testimony  is  derived  from  the  fact  that  neither  Junius 
/nor  Sir  P.  Francis  was  in  parliament.  Both,  however,  fre- 
I  queiited  the  gallery  of  the  House  of  Commons  in  1770  and 
V]77i,  and  both  took  notes  of  the  same  speeches  at  the  same 
time  and  in  the  same  words.  It  is  next  to  impossible  to 
account  for  such  singular  correspondences,  except. by  con- 
cluding that  the  two  were  one  and  the  same  person.  The 
most  striking  proof  of  this  conformity  is  contained  in  the 
speech  of  Lord  Chatham,  at  the  opening  of  the  session  in 
January,  1770 ;  this  speech  was  reported  by  Sir  P.  Francis, 
who  communicated  it  first  to  Almon,  who  published  it  in  1791, 
in  his  Life  of  Lord  Chatham,  and  then  to  Hansard  s  Parlia- 
mentary History  t.  The  publisher  of  the  latter  work  informed 
Mr.  Taylor  that  he  received  the  speech  from  Sir  Philip,  who 
was  present  at  the  debate.  Now,  a  comparison  of  the  reported 
speech  with  some  of  Junius's  Letters  proves  that  either 
Junius  must  have  heard  the  speech  and  taken  notes  of  it,  or 
received  notes  from  somebody  who  was  present ;  and  not  only 
80,  but  that  the  notes  which  he  took  or  received  were  nearly 
the  same  with  those  taken  by  Sir  P.  Francis.  The  following 
are  examples  of  coincidence  :  — 

Sir  P.  Francig's  Report. — *'  That  on  this  principle  he  had  himself  advised 
•  measure  which  he  knew  was  not  strictly  legal ;  but  he  had  recommended 

•  Preliminary  Essay,  vol.  i.  p.  24. 

f  Vol.  xyI.  p.  647.  In  a  note  the  editor  (the  late  Mr.  Wright)  nyi  :— 
**  This  important  debate  was  taken  by  a  ^ntleman  who  afterwards  made  ■ 
distinguished  figure  in  the  House  ot  Oftmmons^  and  by  him  it  has  beev 
obligingly  revised  for  this  work."    USl^^  I 


00INCIDEHCE8  IN   SPEECHES   AND   LETTEBS.  xliij 

it  ts  a  meaBure  of  neceuity,  to  save  a  stamnv  people  from  famine,  and  had 
submitted  to  the  judgment  of  his  country." 

JwUut  (vol.  i.  p.  419). — "  Instead  of  insittiug  that  the  proclamation  was 
lega],  he  (Lord  Camden)  should  have  said,  'My  Lords,  I  know  the  pro- 
dunation  was  illegal,  but  I  advised  it  because  it  «ras  indispensably  necessary 
10  ssre  the  kingdom  from  fiimine ;  and  I  submit  myself  to  the  justice  and 
mercy  of  my  country.* " 

Sir  P.  Francui's  JReporL — "  He  ovued  his  natural  partiality  to  America, 
■nd  was  inclined  to  make  allowance  even  for  thr»se  excesses.  That  they 
ought  to  be  treated  with  tenderness ;  for  in  his  sense  they  were  ebullitions 
of  liberty  which  broke  out  upon  the  skin,  and  were  a  sign,  if  not  of  perfect 
health,  at  least  of  a  vigorous  constitution,  and  must  not  be  driven  in  too  sud- 
denly, lest  they  should  strike  to  the  heart" 

Junifu  (toL  i.  p.  302). — "  No  man  regards  an  eruption  upon  the  surface 
when  the  noble  parts  are  invaded  and  he  feels  a  mortification  approaching  to 
Ids  heart." 

Sir  P.  Francises  Report — "That  the  Americans  had  purchased  their 
liber^  at  a  dear  rate,  since  they  ha^  quitted  their  native  country,  and  gone 
in  search  of  freedom  to  a  desert." 

Junius  (vol.  i.  p.  264). — "  They  left  their  native  land  in  search  of  freedom, 
and  found  it  in  a  desert." 


We  have  the  distinct  avowal  of  Sir  P.  Francis,  that  he 
attended  the  dehates  and  heard  Lord  Chatham.  In  his 
pamphlet  on  the  Paper  Currency,  are  these  remarkable 
words : — "  Let  the  war  take  its  course,  or,  as  I  heard  Lord 
Chatham  declare  in  the  House  of  Lords,  *  Let  Discord  pre- 
vail FOB  EVER !  * "  That  Junius  also  attended  them  may  be 
inferred  from  his  own  statement : — "  The  following  quotation,'* 
Bays  he,  **  from  a  speech  delivered  by  Lord  Chatham,  on  t\e 
14th  of  December,  is  taken  with  ea^actness."  *  Upon  this 
evidence  it  seems  unnecessary  to  dwell ;  all  is  easily  recon- 
ciled by  supposing  Junius  and  Francis  to  be  one  and  the  same, 
but  everything  inexplicable  on  a  contrary  supposition. 

The  agreement  and  consistency  in  the  persop  of  any 
other  claimant  are  in  no  instance  so  complete  as  that  which  .^ 
can  be  traced  between  Francis  and  Junius ;  even  in  words  and  r 
peculiar  phrases  they  coincide.  Thus,  *' false  fact,"  "I  am 
a  plain  man, "  "  simplicity  of  common  sense, "  frequently 
occur  in  both.  Both  in  Junius's  and  Sir  P.  Francis's  private 
notes  this  resemblance  is  observable.  I  subjoin  parallel 
instances : — 

Sir  P,  Francis. — "Pray  never  mind  anything  I  say.  I  slave  mytelf  to 
dcAtli,  and  write  and  speak  on  instant  impiessions ;  «o  I  am  very  sorry  if  I 
^ve  offended  you." — Junius  Identified, 

*  For  the  remainder  of  the  quotatiou,  see  p.  3i2i« 

d 


/ 


Xl!;  THE   HISTORY  AND   DISOOYEBY   OF  JUKICS. 

Junius. — "  Pray  tell  me  whether  George  Onslow  means  to  keep  bis  word  witk 
Yon ;"  and  ends,  *^and  so  I  wish  you  good  night." — Note  to  WoodfaU,  vol.  u.  p.  7* 

}iir  P.  Fraticis  to  Mr,  Burke,  Feb.  19,  1790. — "  I  wish  you  were  at  th« 
flf\\\  for  giving  me  all  this  trouble ;  and  so  farewell  !*' 

Sir  P.  Francis,  August  20, 1804. — "  My  present  intention  is  to  visit  you 
about  the  10th  of  next  month,  or  perhaps  a  little  sooner;  and  so,  dear 
children,  farewell.'' — Chatham,  Correspondence,  vol.  iv.  &c-8imile  No.  35. 

Certain  peculiarities  have  been  remarked  in  spelling,  which 
occur  in  both  Junius  and  Francis ;  and  neither  of  them  has  any 
such  peculiarity  that  is  not  common  to  both.  Of  this  class  of 
confirmations,  with  other  minor  ones,  the  subjoined  summary 
has  been  given  by  Lord  Brougham  in  his  able  analytical 
review  of  Mr  Taylor's  work  *. 

''Thus,  they  both  write  *  practice '  with  an  s;  *  cornplfla&C  instead  of 
'completely;*  'tng^ross,*  'tntire,'  'tntrast,*  and  maiiy  other  such  words, 
which  are  usually  begun  with  an  e ;  '  endeavor,'  without  an  u ;  '  siEreen/ 
with  a  k,  and  several  others.  There  may  not  be  much  in  any  of  these  in- 
stances taken  singly ;  but  when  we  find  that  aU  the  peculiarities  that  belong 
to  either  writer  are  common  to  both,  it  is  impossible  not  to  receive  them  as 
ingredients  in  the  mass  of  evidence. 

"  It  is  stated  by  a  person  who  examined,  with  Wilkes,  the  orm  and  fold- 
ing of  the  letters  received  by  him,  that  thej  both  agreed  in  '  thinking  they 
could  see  marks  of  the  writer's  habit  of  folding  and  directing  official  letters.' 

"  Last  of  all,  a  careful  examination  has  been  instituted  of  the  handwriting 
of  Junius ;  and  the  specimens  published  by  Woodfall  have  been  diligently 
compared  with  letters  of  Sir  Philip  Francis.  Those  of  Junius  are  known  to 
be  all  written  in  a  feigned  hand ;  but  its  general  character  agrees  well  with 
Sir  Flulip's.  Wherever,  in  the  hurry  of  writmg  (for  example,  where  a  word 
is  interlined),  the  natural  hand,  or  something  near  it,  brei^s  out,  the  reaem* 
blance  is  more  complete,  and  certain  peculiarities,  preserved  in  the  feigned 
hand,  occur  also  in  Sir  Philip's.  We  cannot  follow  the  comparison  through 
its  minute  details ;  but  we  are  confident  that  it  must  go  far  towards  satisfyinff 
those  whom  the  rest  of  the  argument  may  have  fiuled  to  convince.  Some  <m 
the  more  remarkable  coincidences  are  as  follows : — 

"  When  Sir  Philip  Francis  signs  with  his  initials,  he  draws  a  short  strong 
line  above  and  below  them.  The  very  same  lines  are  uniformly  drawn  under 
and  over  the  initials  with  which  Junius  signs  his  private  letters  to  Woodfii!L 
In  correcting  the  press  they  both  use,  instead  of  the  ordinary  sign  of  dele- 
tion, a  different  and  very  peculiar  sign,  exactly  the  same  in  both.  They  both 
place  the  asterisk,  or  star  of  reference  to  a  foo^note,  at  the  beginning,  and 
not  at  the  end  of  the  passage  to  which  it  belongs — contrary  to  what  may  bo 
termed  the  invariable  usage  of  other  writers.  They  both  write  the  words 
j/m',  and  yours,  in  all  cases,  with  a  large  Y,  the  form  of  which  is  strikingly 
alike  in  both  authors.  They  also  use  a  half  large  c  at  the  beginning  of  • 
word,  of  a  peculiar  and  characteristic  formation.  Their  ciphers  or  numerals  i 
are  all  formed  exactly  on  the  same  plan ;  as  are  roost  of  their  compound  le^ 
ters.  Instead  of  a  round  dot  over  the  i,  they  both  invariably  use  an  obliqw^g 
stroke,  edoping  in  the  opposite  direction  to  that  of  the  general  writing  ;  «ei 

*  Kdinbttia;k  Review,  vol.  xxijL  p.  112.  ' 


SIIOLAIUTY   OF   SPELUNO  AND  HANDWRITING.  xh 

Aey  icark  their  quotations,  not  by  inyerted  commas,  but  by  short  perpendi- 
cular lines.  They  are  both  uniformly  correct  and  systematic  in  the  punctua* 
tfon  of  their  MS.  Both  write  a  distinct  little  a  over  '&c.',  and  connect  words 
diTided  at  the  end  of  a  line,  not  by  a  hyphen,  but  a  colon,  which  is  repeated, 
contrary  to  general  usage,  at  the  beginning  of  the  second  line  as  well  as  the 
end  of  the  first" 

Since  the  above  was  written,  the  evidence  derived  from 
handwriting,  and  the  comparison  of  Sir  P.  Francises  ordinary 
hand,  which  was  a  remarkably  fine  one,  with  the  studiously 
feigned  hand  of  Junius,  has  been  singularly  strengthened  by  a 
late  discovery.  Lord  Brougham  states,  in  his  **  Lives  of 
British  Statesmen,"  that  the  late  Mr.  Daniel  Giles  obtained 
possession  of  a  copy  of  verses  addressed  to  his  sister  by  Sir  P. 
Francis,  with  a  letter  written  in  a  feigned  hand.  Upon  com> 
paring  this  feigned  hand  with  the  facsimiles  published  by 
Woodfall,  and  one  of  which  is  affixed  to  the  first  volume,  the 
two  were  found  to  tally  accurately  *. 

With  so  many  minute  coincidences,  the  issue  seems  nearly 
woand  up,  and  it  is  likely  a  judge  in  the  summing  up,  in 
an  ordinary  trial,  would  be  stopped  at  this  stage  by  the  jury 
declaring  that  they  had  heard  enough,  and  were  agreed  upon 
their  verdict.  One  eminent  judge  of  tbe  Court  of  Common 
Pleas,  Sir  Vicary  Gibbs,  affirmed,  after  the  perusal  of  Mr. 
Taylor's  book,  that  if  the  case  had  been  argued  before  him  as 
a  judge  in  a  trial  for  libel,  he  should  have  directed  the  jury 
to  find  Sir  Philip  Francis  guilty.  In  the  able  review  just 
quoted.  Lord  Brougham  says,  "  We  are  half  inclined  to  think, 
however,  that  the  real  author  is  at  last  detected." — "  That  it 
proves  Sir  Philip  to  be  Junius  we  will  not  affirm ;  but  this  we 
can  safely  assert,  that  it  accumulates  such  a  mass  of  circum- 
stantial evidence  that  it  renders  it  extremely  difficult  to 
believe  he  is  not;  and  that,  if  so  many  coincidences  shall 
be  found  to  have  misled  us  in  this  case,  our  faith  in  all  con- 
dosions  drawn  from  proofs  of  a  similar  kind  may  henceforth 
be  shaken."  But  the  case  may  be  strengthened  by  further 
proofs ;  and  after  first  disposing  of  certain  objections  to  the 
megoing  identification,  I  shall  adduce  more  recent  testimony, 
and  so  strong  that  the  writer  of  the  cautiously-worded  opinion 
just  ipven  mil  be  constrained,  I  suspect,  to  admit  that  the 
ksae  is  no  longer  in  doubt,  and  that  it  is  as  certain  Sir  Phili|> 
yinocis  was  Junius  as  anything  human  can  be. 

*  I  am  enabled  to  add  a  little  to  the  &cts  communicated  by  Lord 
travgliain.    Thavenet  Sir  Philip  addntsed  to  MsiQiles'f  sitter  are  wo  tte» 


Xlvi  THE  HIBTOBT  AND    DI8G0VEBY  OF    JUVIUB. 


Ill    REPLY  TO  OBJECTIONS. 

It  is  the  nature  of  truth  to  be  consistent ;  every  fresh 
covery  and  more  searching  inquiry  tend  to  confirm  her  in* 
mutable  relations.  After  Sir  P.  Francis  had  been  fixed  upon, 
each  succeeding  step  in  the  investigation  helped  to  confimi 
the  selection,  till  at  length  the  cumulative  proofs  reached  the 
extreme  limit  of  circumstantial  testimony.  But  since  the  ap- 
pearance of  Mr.  Taylor^s  book,  and  Lord  Brougham*s  review 
of  it,  there  have  been  many  revelations,  all  corroboratiYe,  and 
which,  to  complete  the  demonstration,  it  is  essential  I  should 
bring  under  the  reader's  notice.  Before  I  do  this  it  will  be 
best,  in  this  section,  to  dispose,  more  definitively  than  has  yet 
been  done,  of  certain  objections. 

For  instance,  it  has  been  urged  *,  that  the  greater  part  of 

the   evidence  is  consistent  with  the  idea  that   Sir  Philip 

Francis  was  merely  the  amanuensis  of  Junius.     The  reasons 

against   this  construction  are  so  obvious,  that  a  glance   at 

them  will  suffice.     If  Sir  Philip  had  been  only  the  copyist 

how  did  it  happen  that  the  life  and  death  of  Junius,  the  com 

\    mencement  and  close  of  the  publication  of  the  Letters,  wero 

^wholly  dependent  on  the  movements  of  so  subordinate  aa 

auxiliary  ?    When  Sir  Philip  was  in  the  country,  or  travelling 

on  the  Continent,  the  Letters  stopped ;  and  after  Sir  Pfailio 

sailed  for  India  Junius  was  no  more  heard  of.     How  was  this  i 

Could  not  Junius  compose  because  his  amanuensis  was  absent  t 

Was  no  copyist  for  the  printer  to  be  found  except  Francis  f 

.  Had  Junius  been  a  person  distinct  from  Sir  Philip,  and  died« 

or  gone  abroad,  the  employment  of  his  transcriber  might  hava 

ceased;  but  that  Junius  should  be  stopped  in  his  composi* 

tion  by  the  loss  of  his  mechanical  co-operative  is  as  unlikely 

as  that  he  should  for  ever  cease  to  write  because  his  pei»^ 

wanted  mending. 

.  It  appears  most  probable,  from  many  facts  already  states 

^  that  the  composer  of  the  Letters,  their  transcriber,  and 

bearer  of  them  to  the  printer,  were  one  and  the  same 

son.     It  is  hardly  possible  on  any  other  supposition  to' 

in  his  natural  hand,  but  the  address  on  the  envelope,  which  is  in  the 
session  of  my  informant,  Mr.  H.  B.  Francis,  is  in  Sir  Philip's  feigned  La 
The  subject  of  the  verses  is  different,  but  the  measure  is  similar  to  that  of 
verses  referred  to,  vol.  i.  p.  162. 

*  Baikei's  Letters  on  Junius,  n.  112. 


REPLY   TO   OBJECTIONS.  xlvii 

dooat  for  ooncealment  being  so  veil  preserved,  and  it  agi*ees, 
too,  vfith  the  declaration  of  Junius,  that  he  was  the  *'  sole 
iepositary  of  his  own  secret."  For  answering  these  differ- 
ent conditions  Sir  P.  Francis,  in  the  obscurity  of  the  War 
Office,  was  aptly  situated,  not  only  for  effectually  masking  the 
authorship,  but  for  personally  executing  many  of  the  active 
duties  with  which  it  would  be  unavoidably  connected.  A 
clerk  only,  he  was  not  likely  to  be  generally  known,  and  this 
enabled  him,  without  fear  of  discovery,  to  attend  parliamen- 
tary debates,  collect  intelligence,  deliver  and  call  for  letters, 
and  transact  other  business  with  anybody,  except  Mr.  Woodfall. 
Hence  Junius  instructs  the  printer,  if  he  has  anything  for 
him,  to  leave  it  at  the  New  Exchange  Coffee-house  in  the 
Strand,  or  at  any  other  coffee-house  west  of  Temple  Bar,  ( 
** where  it  is  absolutely  impossible  I  should  be  known."*  J| 
Francis  might  safely  do  this ;  he  might  call  for  any  packet,  / 
and  not  be  known  by  the  waiters ;  but  could  Lord  George 
Sackville,  Colonel  Barre,  or  other  public  character  of  emi 
nence  that  has  been  fixed  upon  as  Junius  have  done  it?  Cer- 
tainly not ;  any  more  than  Lord  John  Russell  or  Sir  Robert 
Peel  could  appear  at  the  Crown  and  Anchor  or  any  other 
public  tavern  without  detection. 

Akin  to  the  conjecture  that  Sir  Philip  Francis  was  only  the 
amanuensis  is  the  query,  was  Sir  Philip  the  only  person  con- 
cerned in  the  production  of  the  Letters  ?  At  all  events  he 
appears  to  have  been  the  principal,  since  the  others  were 
governed  entirely  by  his  movements — began,  proceeded,  and 
finished  with  him.  No  doubt,  like  other  political  writers,  ho 
sought  aid  from  books,  newspapers,  and  individual  commu- 
nications. What  his  sources  of  intelligence  were,  I  shall  soon 
explain :  they  were  peculiar  and  abundant,  and  quite  ade- 
quate to  the  production  of  the  Letters.  But,  to  meet  the 
question  from  internal  evidence  only,  it  may  be  remarked 
that  the  sentiments  and  style  of  Junius  have  been  proved  to 
he  those  of  Francis;  they  pervade  every  letter  to  such  an 
extent  that  no  doubt  can  exist  that  a  portion  of  them,  at 
least,  were  derived  from  him ;  and,  since  there  are  in  none 
of  the  genuine  Letters  any  peculiarities,  either  of  thought  or 
feKpression,  that  may  not  be  found  in  the  acknowledged  pro- 
lobedons  of  Sir  Francis,  it  is  fair  to  conclude  that  he  alone  was 
mgaged  in  their  composition. 

*  FriTate  Letter  5,  p.  6. 


\ 


\ 


Xlviii  THB  BISTORT  AIO)    DISCOVEBT  OF  JUNIUS. 

A  concluding  and  more  difficult  objection  remains  to  be 
dealt  with.  Were  the  intellectual  powers  of  Sir. Philip 
Francis  equal  to  the  composition  of  the  Letters,  and  do  his 
after  writings  warrant  their  ascription  to  him  ?  This  demurrer 
may  be  met  in  two  ways :  first,  by  admitting  the  inferiority  of 
the  known  writings  of  Francis  to  those  of  Junius,  but  tracing 
it  to  decline  of  mental  energy  or  to  special  circumstances  in 
his  personal  history ;  or,  secondly,  such  alleged  inferiority  may 
be  denied,  and  proofs  adduced  that  no  greater  discrepancy  ex- 
ists between  Francis  and  Junius  than  may  be  explained  by  the 
difference  of  age,  difference  of  party  or  personal  connection, 
difference  in  the  subject  and  aim  of  the  writings ;  or  the  fact 
that  one  was  anonymous  and  irresponsible,  and  the  other 
avowed  or  known.  I  shall  deal  with  these  objections  under 
their  several  aspects,  as  well  from  their  general  interest  as 
from  knowing  that  with  competent  judges  unsatisfied  doubts 
resulting  from  these  alone,  give  rise  to  hesitation  as  to  the 
claims  of  Sir  Philip  Francis. 

Admitting,  by  way  of  illustration,  the  inferiority  of  the 
later  writings  of  Sir  P.  Francis  to  those  of  Junius,  I  reply  that 
Francis  was  unquestionably  a  person  of  precocious  gifts.  His 
personal  history  attests  this.  He  was  the  choice  scholar  of 
St.  Paul's,  and  carried  off  the  gold  medal  there ;  Lord  Hol- 
land gave  him  **  a  little  place "  in  the  Foreign  Office ;  Lord 
Chatham,  succeeding  his  political  opponent,  continued  to 
patronize  him  by  making  him  his  Latin  secretary  in  the 
same  department.  He  received  other  distinctions  at  an  early 
age,  {dl  significant  of  high  qualifications.  It  is  possible,  how- 
ever, after  these  manifestations,  that  his  intellectual  ardour  or 
powers  may  have  abated,  or  have  been  diverted  by  other  pas- 
sions, or  new  circumstances.  There  is  nothing  in  this  suppo- 
sition at  all  inconsistent  with  what  is  familiarly  known  of 
many  eminent  men.  Some  minds  are  weak  and  dull  in  in- 1 
fancy,  but  strengthen  and  brighten  unexpectedly  in  later  life;  j 
while  others  follow  an  exactly  inverse  ratio.  Philip  Duke  of] 
Wharton  evinced  extraordinary  political  talents  almost  in  boy- ; 
hood,  and  died  exhausted  before  reaching  middle  life.  Chat- 
terton,  Kirke  White,  Pascal,  Hugo  Grotius,  and  Mozart,  wera 
singular  examples  of  precocious  genius.  All  the  great  disoo> 
veries  of  Sir  Isaac  Newton  were  made  prior  to  his  twenty- 
fourth  year ;  in  after  life  he  seems  to  have  lose  both  the  energy 
and  ambition  that  had  previously  animated  him  in  the  pursui! 


ALLEGED   INFEBIORITY    OF   FBAKCIS  xlix 

of  science.  Further  examples  seem  unnecessary,  or  they  miglic 
be  multiplied  from  a  variety  of  sources,  especially  from  Baillet  s 
**Enfans  Celebres,"*  and  the  work  of  a  learned  German,  who 
has  accumulated  a  whole  volume  on  the  subject  of  precocious  de» 
velopments+.  The  mind  is  subject  to  vicissitudes,  like  the  body. 
Men  become  feeble  and  decrepid  at  every  age.  Pitt  died,  ac- 
sording  to  the  testimony  of  Lord  Malmesbury,  in  exhaustion 
of  body,  and  perhaps  of  mind,  at  forty-seven,  a  period  when 
others  are  reaching  their  prime.  It  follows  that  if  intellectual 
inferiority  were  proveable  in  Sir  P.  Francis,  such  decadence 
was  compatible  with  the  previous  exercise  of  greater  powers — 
with  the  authorship  of  Junius.  The  difference  of  style,  how- 
ever, which  is  mostly  dwelt  upon  is  of  little  weight ;  but  even 
in  this  respect,  none  come  nearer  to  the  original  tban  Sir 
Philip  Francis.  But  the  style  of  Junius  was  feigned,  like  his 
handwriting,  his  name,  his  character,  and  everything  per- 
taining to  him.  It  was  an  artificial  style,  well  suited  to  his 
purpose  of  inflicting  deadly  wounds,  but  it  was  not  a  style 
which  either  Junius  or  any  other  is  likely  to  have  used  in 
ordinary.  It  would  have  savoured  of  as  much  affectation  as 
to  write  in  heroic  verse  in  domestic  intercourse. 

I  leave,  however,  minor  points  to  come  to  the  great  event 
in  the  life  of  Sir  P.  Francis ;  that  which  is  most  likely  to 
have  effected  any  perceptible  change  in  his  writings,  and 
lessened  the  fire  and  richness  of  powers  evinced  in  the  letters 
of  Junius. 

The  appointment  of  Sir  P.  Francis  from  a  clerkship  in  the 
War  Office,  with  a  stipend  of  400/.,  to  a  seat  at  the  council-board 
of  Calcutta,  with  10,000^  per  annum,  probably  appeared  at 
the  time  an  auspicious  occurrence  ;  but  it  is  likely  that  this 
proved  to  be  the  most  adverse  event  of  his  life,  and  more 
than  anything  contributed  to  frustrate  those  ambitious  aspira- 
tions which  Junius  evidently  had  indulged,  when  he  told  Wood- 
fall  he  should  **know  him  by  his  works."  No  two  individuals 
could  have  met  more  likely  to  destroy  each  other  than  Francis 
and  Warren  Hastings ;  and  this — paradoxical  as  it  may  seem — 
not  from  the  antagonism  of  their  characters,  but  their  homo- 
geneity. Both  had  risen  from  humbler  rank — Hastings  first ; 
both  possessed  great  natural  and  acquired  gifts;  both  were 

*  Bnfime  Celebres  par  leurs  Btudes  ou  par  leurs  &rits.     Paris,  1688. 
f  KWfekeri  Bibliotheca  Eruditorum  precocium,  sire  ad  scripta  hujtu  &f^«ir 
Kaenti  Spicilegium  et  Accesiionet.    Eamb*  1717* 


1  THE   HISTORY   AKD    DI9C0VEBY   OF  JUNIUS. 

CI  ardent  and  impulsive  temperament;  both  were  ambitious, 
brave,  energetic,  and  indefatigable;  both  were  warm  in  friend 
ship,  but  unscrupulous  and  implacable  in  their  animosities; 
lastly,  both  were  capable  of,  and  doubtless  preferred,  honourable 
warfare,  but,  upon  occasion,  could  play  a  subtle,  intriguing,  over- 
reaching game.  Separately,  either  was  no  doubt  competent  to 
achieve  a  name ;  but  conjointly,  fatal  collisions  were  inevitable. 
Like  gladiators  in  mortal  conflict,  both  fell  to  the  earth, 
mutilated  and  dead— dead  to  that  which  makes  life  precious — 
honour,  riches,  and  unsullied  renown — the  melancholy  victims 
of  jealous  rancour  and  uncompromising  hatred.  Which  was 
the  most  in  error,  I  leave  history  to  determine.  Ostensibly, 
they  were  mainly  divided  on  the  two  great  lines  of  Indian 
policy:  the  one,  expediency,  which  Hastings  patronized,  as 
most  conducive  to  individual  and  territorial  aggrandisement ; 
the  other,  the  immutable  principles  of  right  and  justice, 
which  Francis  advocated  as  the  true  principles  of  government. 
'  One  may  have  been  more  available — more  immediately  gain- 
ful to  British  power  and  its  agency ;  the  other  more  honour- 
able and  enduring,  but  possibly  impracticable  in  dealing  with 
the  native  princes.  So  much  were  the  two  men  identical  in 
organism  and  aims,  that  it  is  not  improbable,  had  it  been 
possible  for  them  to  exchange  places,  that  each  in  his  altered 
position  would  have  trod  in  the  other  s  steps. 

This  could  not  be,  and  in  the  struggle  that  ensued  Francis 
was  worsted.  He  returned  to  England  prematurely,  danger- 
ously wounded  in  a  duel  which  his  rival  had  provoked,  pro- 
bably as  the  shortest  course  to  get  rid  of  him,  and,  doubtless, 
burning  with  unquenchable  resentment  against  the  antagonist 
who  had  overpowered  him.  Mr.  Hastings  states*,  that  he  did 
not  "  seek"  a  personal  rencontre  with  Mr.  Francis,  but  "  ex- 
pected it,"  as  the  consequence  of  the  offensive  minute  j  he  had 
sent  to  him.  Hastings  was  a  good  shot,  and,  according  to  Lady 
Francis,  had  he  not  been  short  in  stature,  and  his  opponent  a 
'*  tall  gentleman,"  the  affair  might  have  had  a  more  fatal  ter- 
mination. 

The  effect  of  it,  and  the  sudden  destruction  of  cherished 
hopes  and  prospects,  must,  on  a  mind  and  spirit  like  that  oi 
Sir  P.  Francis,  have  been  terrible.  In  the  prime  of  life  he 
became  involved  in  a  quarrel  which  endured  for  twenty-five 
^ears,  and  produced  nought  but  disappointment  and  mortifica-^ 
*  Oleig's  Life.  i*  Appendix,  p.  420. 


EFFECTS  OF  FBANCIS'S  INDIAN    APPOINTMENT.  H 

tion.  GeDerally,  at  the  time,  he  was  thought  to  have  oeeu 
in  the  wrong,  and  when  he  arrived  in  England  no  one  would 
notice  him,  except  the  King  and  Mr.  Burke.  It  is  possible 
that  the  big  secret  which  he  had  carried  in  his  bosom  had 
something  to  do  with  his  errors  and  failures.  The  fame  of 
Junius — ^for  such  in  the  sequel,  I  apprehend,  will  be  the 
reader's  conclusion— could  not  have  been  entirely  inactive  on 
a  nature  like  his ;  it  could  not  but  have  inspired  him  with  a 
confidence,  not  to  say  haughtiness,  of  demeanour  as  offensive 
as  incomprehensible  to  those  not  in  the  mystery  of  his  im- 
jportance.  There  is  a  moral  in  this  unravelment,  in  the  retri  • 
Dative  influence  resulting  from  the  Junian  secrecy  apparently 
80  successful,  that  may  have  operated  unfavourably  on  the 
sabsequent  character  and  career  of  Francis. 

However  this  may  be  judged,  one  conclusion  is  certain, 
that  Sir  Philip  cannot  but  have  returned  from  India  an 
altered  man.  Indomitable  as  he  was  in  spirit,  it  is  unlikely 
his  energies  would  not  abate  under  the  severe  repulse  he  had 
experienced.  But  it  was  indispensable  he  should  persevere ; 
his  honour,  future  fame,  and  reputation  in  England,  all  de* 
pended  on  proving  his  Indian  quarrel  just.  Upon  this  issue 
all  his  powers  hereafter  had  to  be  concentrated.  He  had  to 
convince  the  British  public  that  Warren  Hastings  was  an  un- 
principled treaty-breaker,  a  reckless  spoliator,  a  crafty,  corrupt, 
avaricious,  and  tyrannical  governor-general.  For  this  end 
very  different  accomplishments  and  exercises  were  needful 
from  those  he  had  previously  cultivated  in  the  columns  of 
the  PuhUc  Advertiser.  He  had  the  House  of  Commons  to 
address,  upon  which  Burke's  learned  and  fervid  eloquence  had 
been  unavailing;  he  had  the  Indian  Board  to  memorialize; 
pamphlets  to  write  for  popular  conviction;  conversations  to 
maintain,  and  explanatory  letters  to  write,  to  gain  patrons^ 
and  satisfy  private  friends  :  all  which  was  assuredly  enough  to> 
weaiy  and  dull  the  brightest  and  most  untiring  genius.  In 
this  new  field  all  beside  plain  facts,  cogent  reasoning,  and 
clear  narrative,  was  out  of  place.  Those  excellences  which  in 
a  different  character  had  challenged  admiration — the  studied 
and  lucid  diction,  the  harmony  of  balanced  periods,  the  ela- 
borate sarcasm,  dazzling  metaphor,  sparkling  wit,  epigram- 
matic turns  of  style,  and  other  classic  elegancies,  as  well  as 
the  fierce  invective  and  cruel  inuendo,  which  had  at  once 
made  the  pages  of  Junius  both  beautiful  and  appalling,  had 


Ill  THE  HI8T0BY  AND  DIBGOVEBT  OF  JUIOUS. 

become  of  secondary  moment.  But  such  was  fato.  '^ith 
the  fire  of  a  Chatham  in  his  hosom  to  electrify  tlie  6enat0» 
and  with  the  acumen,  knowledge  of  human  nature,  and  mastery 
of  language  of  a  Hume,  Robertson,  or  Gibbon,  to  adorn  axxl 
invigorate  history.  Sir  Philip  IB'rancis  was  destined  to  leave, 
as  his  avowed  productions,  only  a  pile  of  well-nigh  forgotten 
speeches,  protests,  pamphlets,  manuscript  notes  on  book  mar 
gins,  and  fugitiye  verses. 

But  in  this  direction  of  his  talents  he  was  first-rate,  if  not 
foremost.  Vindication  of  his  conduct  and  principles  required 
that  he  should  become  plainly  didactive,  or  a  dull  matter-of-fact 
narrator,  in  lieu  of  a  brilliant  declaimer;  but  he  was  supreme, 
whether  as  Junius  or  a  pamphleteer.  This  Mr.  Burke  admitted* 
In  oratory  he  laboured  under  a  defect  of  utterance,  caused  by 
an  over-sensibility  of  temperament,  alike  incompatible  with 
public  speaking  and  dramatic  action.  He  has,  however,  left 
admirable  speeches,  as  well  as  written  compositions  of  un- 
doubted excellence. 

But  this  being  a  question  of  taste,  as  well  as  judgment, 
unanimity  caunot  be  expected,  and  I  shall  not  attempt 
to  elucidate  at  great  length.  Que  or  two  specimens  I  will 
submit,  perhaps  not  generally  known,  and  which,  both  from 
sentiment  and  style,  import  no  inferiority  inconsistent  with 
the  conclusion  that  Sir  Philip  Francis  was  Junius. 

The  first  example  I  shall  give,  and  it  is  one  which  has  been 
much  admired,  is  Sir  Philip's  reply  in  the  House  of  Commons 
to  a  coarse  reflection  of  Lord  Chancellor  Thurlow: — 

"  It  was  well  known  that  a  gtbss  and  pablic  insult  had  been  offered  to  the 
memory  ^f  General  Clavering  and  Colonel  Monson  by  a  person  of  high  rank 
in  this  country.  He  was  happy  when  he  heard  that  his  name  was  included 
in  it  with  theirs.  So  highly  did  he  respect  the  character  of  those  men,  that 
he  deemed  it  an  honour  to  share  in  the  injustice  it  had  suffered.  It  was  in 
compliance  with  the  forms  of  the  House,  and  not  to  shelter  himself  or  out  of 
tenderness  to  the  party,  that  he  forbore  to  name  him.  He  meant  to  describe 
him  so  exactly  that  he  could  not  be  mistaken.  He  declared  in  his  place,  in 
a  great  assembly,  and  in  the  course  of  a  grave  deliberation,  '  that  it  would 
Imye  been  happy  for  this  country  if  (General  Clavering;,  Colonel  Monson,  and 
Mr.  Francis  had  been  drowned  in  their  passage  to  India.'  If  this  poor  and 
spiteful  invective  had  been  uttered  by  a  man  of  no  consequence  or  repute— > 
by  any  light,  trifling,  inconsiderate  person— by  a  lord  of  the  bed-chamber, 
for  example,  or  any  of  the  other  silken  barons  of  modem  days,  he  should  havft 
heard  it  with  indifference.  But  when  it  was  seriously  urged,  and  delibe> 
rately  insisted  on,  by  a  grave  lord  of  Parliament — by  a  judge< — by  a  man  of 
ability  and  eminence  in  his  profession,  whose  personal  disposition  was  Beriovi, 
who  carried  gravity  to  stemneM  and  sternness  to  ferocity,  it  onold  not  b« 


COMPARISON  OF  nrTELLEOTUAL  POWEBS.  HU 

Roeived  witli  indiflferenee,  or  answered  without  resentment  Such  a  man 
woald  bethought  to  have  inqoirad  before  he  pronoonced.  From  his  month 
a  reproach  was  a  sentence,  an  invective  was  a  judgment.  The  accidents  of 
life,  and  not  any  original  distinction  that  he  knew  of,  had  placed  him  too 
high,  and  himself  at  too  great  a  distance  from  him,  to  admit  of  any  other  an- 
swer than  a  public  defiance,  for  General  Claverbg,  for  Colonel  Monson,  and 
for  himselfl  This  was  not  a  party  question,  nor  should  it  be  left  to  so  feeble 
an  advocate  as  he  was  to  support  it.  The  friends  and  fellow-soldiers  of 
Cknenil  Clavering  and  Colonel  Monson  would  assist  him  in  defending  their 
memory.  He  demanded  and  expected  the  support  of  every  man  of  .honour 
in  that  House,  and  in  the  kingdom.  What  character  was  safe,  if  slander 
was  permitted  to  attack  the  reputation  of  two  of  the  most  honourable  and 
rirtuous  men  that  ever  were  employed,  or  ever  perished,  in  the  service  of  their 
country  1  He  knew  that  the  authority  of  this  man  was  not  without  weight ; 
but  he  had  an  infinitely  higher  authority  to  oppose  to  it  He  had  the  happi- 
ness of  hearing  the  merits  of  General  Clavering  and  Colonel  Monson  acknow- 
ledged and  applauded,  in  terms  to  which  he  was  not  at  liberty  to  do  more 
than  to  allude :  they  were  rapid  and  expressive.  He  must  not  venture  to 
repeat,  lest  he  should  do  them  injustice,  or  violate  the  forms  of  respect,  where 
essentially  he  owed  and  felt  the  most  But  he  was  sufficiently  understood. 
The  generous  sensations  that  animate  the  royal  mind  were  easily  distin- 
gnished  from  those  which  rankled  in  the  heart  of  that  person  who  was  supposed 
to  be  the  keeper  of  the  royal  conscience.'* 

According  to  the  description  of  persons  present  this  phi 
lippic  was  powerfully  delivered,  bordering  on  the  terrible  in 
countenance,  gesture,  and  vehemence.     The  next  is  a  shorter 
extract  from  a  speech  in  1796 ;  it  is  close,  neat,  and  conclu- 
sive : — 


«t 


If  I  could  personify  the  House  of  Commons,  it  would  be  my  interest  as 
well  as  my  duty  to  approach  so  great  a  person  with  the  utmost  respect.  But 
respect  does  not  exclude  firmness,  and  should  not  restrain  me  from  saying, 
that  it  is  the  function  of  your  greatness,  as  well  as  of  your  office,  to  listen  to 
truth,  especially  when  it  arraigns  a  proceeding  of  your  own.  I  am  not  here 
to  admire  your  consistency,  or  to  applaud  the  conduct  which  I  am  endea- 
Touring  to  correct  These  topics  do  not  furnish  any  subject  for  applause. 
You  have  nothing  like  praise  to  expect  from  me ;  unless  you  feel,  as  I  do, 
that  a  compliment  of  the  highest  order  is  included  in  the  confidence  w/iick 
appeals  to  your  justice  against  your  inclination." 

The  next  is  an  extract  from  a  letter  addressed  by  Sir  P 
Francis  to  Mr.  Burke,  on  the  publication  of  his  celebrated 
•*  Reflections,"  and  dated  Pebruary  19,  1790.  The  discipline 
administered  is  severe,  but  not  perhaps  unwarranted  by  the 
occasion — the  well-known  extravagance  of  the  orator  on  tho 
Queen  of  France,  and  his  lament  over  the  fall  of  Chivalry. 

"  Tn  a  case  so  interesting  as  the  errors  of  a  great  nation,  and  the  calamities 
of  ^rreat  individuals,  and  feeling  them  so  deeply  as  you  profess  to  do,  all 
Banner  of  insinuatba  is  improper,  all  gibe  and  nickname  prohibited.    In  my 


liv  THE  HISTCRT  AND  DI8C?OVERY  OP  JUNIUS. 

apinion  all  tliat  you  my  of  the  queen  is  pure  foppery.  If  she  he  a  perfx/t 
female  character,  you  ought  to  take  your  ground  upon  her  virtues.  If  she  be 
the  reyerse,  it  is  ridiculous  in  any  but  a  lover  to  place  her  personal  «.harms  in 
opposition  to  her  crimes.  Either  way,  I  know  the  argument  must  proceed 
upon  a  supposition;  for  neither  have  you  said  anything  to  establish  her 
moral  merits,  nor  have  her  accusers  formally  tried  and  convicted  her  of  guilt. 
On  this  subject,  however,  you  cannot  but  know  that  the  opinion  of  the  world 
is  not  lately,  but  has  been  many  years,  decided.  But  in  effect,  when  you 
assert  her  claim  to  protection  and  respect  ua  no  other  topics  than  those  of 
gallantry,  and  beauty,  and  personal  accomplishments,  you  virtually  abandon 
the  proof  and  assertion  of  her  innocence,  which  you  Imow  is  the  point  sub- 
stantially in  question.  Pray,  Sir,  how  long  have  you  felt  yourself  so  des- 
perately disposed  to  admire  the  ladies  of  Germany  ?  I  despise  and  abhor, 
as  much  as  you  can  do,  all  personal  insult  and  outrage,  even  to  guilt  itself,  if 
I  see  it,  where  it  ought  to  be,  dejected  and  helpless ;  but  it  is  in  vain  to 
expect  that  I,  or  any  reasonable  man,  shall  regret  the  suili&rings  of  a  Mesaa- 
lina  as  I  should  those  of  a  Mrs.  Crewe,  or  a  Mrs.  Burke ;  I  mean  all  that  is 
beautiful  or  virtuous  among  women.  Is  it  nothing  but  outside  1  Have  they 
no  moral  minds  1  Or  are  you  such  a  determined  champion  of  beauty  as  to 
draw  your  sword  in  defence  of  any  jade  upon  earth,  provided  she  be  hand- 
some  1  Look  back,  I  beseech  you,  and  deliberate  a  little,  before  you  deter- 
mine  that  this  is  an  office  that  perfectly  becomes  you.  If  I  stop  here,  it  is 
not  for  want  of  a  multitude  of  objections.  The  mischief  you  are  going  to 
do  yourself,  is,  to  my  apprehension,  palpable.  It  is  visible.  It  will  be 
audible.  I  snuff  it  in  the  wind.  I  taste  it  already.  I  feel  it  in  every 
sense;  and  so  will  yon  hereafter  when,  I  vow  to  God  (a  most  elegant 
phrase),  it  will  be  no  sort  of  consolation  for  me  to  reflect  that  I  did  every- 
thing in  my  power  to  prevent  it." 

Sir  Philip  followed  up  his  corrective  admonition  by  stric- 
tures on  the  carelessness  of  his  friend^s  diction,  in  the  highest 
style  of  Junius:— 

"  Once  for  all,  I  wish  you  would  let  me  taich  you  to  write  Englislu  To 
me,  who  am  to  read  everything  you  write,  it  would  be  a  great  comfort,  and 
to  you  no  sort  of  disparagement  Why  will  you  not  allow  yourself  to  be  per- 
suaded that  polish  is  material  to  preservation  1** 

Perhaps  the  reader  will  not  be  displeased  with  the  following 
description  of  the  oratory  of  Sir  Philip,  as  given  by  Mr.  Burke 
in  a  letter  addressed  to  Mrs.  Francis.  It  was  on  the  occasion 
of  opening  the  charges  of  corrupt  administration  against  Warren 
Hastings,  in  which  Sir  P.  Francis  tried  to  lessen  the  natural 
impression  that  he  was  under  the  influence  of  personal  ani- 
mosity;— 

**  Mt  dbar  Madam,  "  Gerard  Street,  April  20, 1787. 

"  I  cannot,  with  an  honest  appetite  or  clear  conscience,  sit  down  to  my  break- 
last,  unless  I  first  give  you  an  account  which  will  make  your  fiunily  break- 
fiwt  as  pleasant  to  you  as  I  wish  all  your  fitinily  meetings  to  be.  Then  I  hav» 
the  satisfaction  of  telling  yon,  that  not  in  my  judirment  only,  but  in  that  of 
all  who  heard  him,  no  man  ever  acquitted  himself,  on  a  day  of  great  expac* 


Sm.  p.  FBAKCIS*8  S0UBCE8  OF  INTELLIGENCE  Iv 

tetion,  to  the  full  of  the  demand  upon  lum  so  well  as  Mr.  Fnncis  did  ye•te^ 
day.  He  was  dear,  precise,  forcible,  and  eloquetU  in  a  high  degree,  Ne 
intricate  brief  was  OTer  better  unravelled ;  and  no  iniquity  ever  placed  so 
eflfectnally  to  produce  its  natural  horror  and  disgust.  It  is  very  little  to  the 
credit  of  those  who  are  Mr.  Francis's  enemies,  but  it  is  infinitely  to  his,  that 
they  forced  him  to  give  a  history  oi  his  V)hd4  fvhlic  life.  He  did  it  in  a 
roost  masterly  manner,  and  with  &a  address  which  the  display  of  such  a  life 
ought  very  little  to  want^  but  which  the  prejudices  of  those  whose  lives  are 
of  a  very  different  character  made  necessary.  He  did  justice  to  the  feelings 
of  others  too ;  and  I  assure  you,  Madam,  that  the  modesty  of  his  defence  was 
not  the  smallest  part  of  its  merit.  All  who  heard  him  were  delighted,  except 
those  whose  mortification  ought  to  give  pleasure  to  every  good  mind.  He  was 
two  hours  and  a  half  or  rather  more  upon  his  legs ;  and  he  never  lost  atten- 
tion for  a  moment.'*  * 

Portions  of  the  above  accurately  depict  the  style  of  Janius ; 
but  I  think  enough  has  been  adduced  to  dispose  of  the  question 
of  literary  or  intellectual  inferiority,  and  shall  now  enter  upon 
fresh  proo&  to  connect  the  history  of  Sir  Philip  with  Junius. 


IV   SOURCES  OF  THE  JUNIAN  INTELLIGENCE. 

Beside  the  extraordinary  talent  evinced  in  the  composition 
of  the  Letters,  one  of  their  -most  remarkable  features  was  the 
authentic  and  prompt  intelligence  manifestly  at  the  command 
of  the  writer.  Invisible  himself,  Junius  seemed  the  central 
eye,  to  which  converged  the  rays  of  light  emitted  from  every- 
thing that  moved  in  the  political  arena.  It  was  this  univer- 
sality of  information  that  especially  tended  to  preserve  invio- 
late his  secrecy,  and  to  mislead  inquirers  into  his  identity. 
How  could  it  be  imagined  that  a  clerk  in  the  War  Office 
could  equal  a  cabinet  minister,  and  even  Royalty  itself,  in  the 
promptitude  and  accuracy  of  his  official  communications  ?  that 
the  monarch,  who,  by  virtue  of  his  prerogative,  receives  from 
his  secretaries,  chancellors,  and  spiritual  vicegerents  reports 
of  all  transactions  in  Church  and  State,  should  be  outdone  by 
80  humble  a  retainer  ?  that  even  the  confidential  whisperings 
of  the  King's  closet,  and  the  gossip  sacred  to  the  privacy  of  a 
ministerial  dinner,  could  not  escape  this  indefatigable  scru- 
tator ?  The  unravelment  of  this  mystery  in  the  Junius  story 
forms  the  purpose  of  the  present  section. 

For  the  production  of  any  important  event,  history  shows 
chat  the  conjunction  oi  two  elements  is  indispensable— a  qoali 

*  (hrrespondew^i^C^i  RigMHiyn^Ed'niniidBwrU,yo\/\\\,y,}^,  Edited 
'iv  Karl  Pitz  William  and  General  Boure.  Iumd.  1844. 


Ivi  THE  HIS1K>B?  aKO  D18C0VKBT  OF  JUNIUS. 

fied  instxument  and  co-operating  circumstances.  The  genias 
of  Napoleon,  fostered  by  the  times  in  which  he  lived,  consti 
tuted  the  phenomenon  of  his  existence.  Junius,  in  a  less 
dazzling  field  of  action,  forms  another  signal  example  of  the 
junction  of  means  with  ends ;  and  in  Sir  Philip  Francis  we 
see  exactly  the  man  who,  from  his  peculiar  position,  character, 
and  acquirememts,  was  competent  to  fulfil  the  conditions  of 
the  problem.  Apparently  open,  communicative,  and  jocular, 
he  was  really  a  reserved  being;  self-dependent,  communing 
much  with  himself,  and  subject  to  passions  that  might  urge 
him  to  extreme  courses,  more  or  less  elevated,  according  to  the 
nature  of  the  impulse.  The  Zanga  of  Yoimg,  or  the  Falkland 
of  Godwin,  offers  the  nearest  dramatic  presentment  of  his  pecu- 
liar organization.  Early  in  life,  from  unusual  ability  and  trust- 
worthiness, he  obtained,  as  already  stated,  the  confidential 
patronage  of  Lord  Holland,  and  subsequently  of  the  Earl  of 
Chatham ;  and  these  noblemen,  the  ablest  and  most  influential 
of  their  time,  became  the  chief  sources  of  the  private  informa- 
tion of  Junius,  through  the  intermediate  agency,  privity,  or 
oo-operation  of  Earl  Temple,  and  perhaps  of  the  GrenvUles, 
Mr.  Calcraft,  and  Dr.  Francis.  These,  possessed  ample  oppor- 
tunities to  contribute  all  the  parliamentary,  court,  and  club 
news  that  rendered  the  Letters  remarkable.  The  city  intel- 
ligence partly  passed  through  the  same  hands,  especially  Mr. 
Calcraft*s,  and  was  obtained  first  from  Alderman  Beckford,  and 
after  his  death  from  Alderman  Sawbridge.  Wilkes  also  fur- 
nished fuel  to  the  Junian  furnace,  but  he  seems  to  have  been 
left  to  be  dealt  with  by  Junius,  who  received  the  civic  con- 
tributions of  the  agitator  tJirough  the  medium  of  Mr.  Woodfall. 
Such  IB  the  list  of  the  dramatis  persona^ — a  body  of  intelli- 
gencers, it  must  be  owned,  amply  sufficient  to  produce  the 
Letters. 

It  will  be  necessary,  however,  to  detail  more  fully  the  rela- 
tions and  positions  of  the  individuals  named,  and  refer  to 
the  public  and  private  information  upon  which  their  com- 
plicity is  established.  I  shall  first  speak  of  the  Holland  sec- 
tion, which  was  distinct  in  interest  and  political  connection 
from  the  Chatham  party. 

But  though  Lords  Holland  and  Chatham  were  the  primary 
sources  of  intelligence,  and  through  intermediate  channels 
contributed  to  the  Junian  reservoir,  it  is  doubtful  to  what 
extent  these  noblemen  were  privy  to  the  Letters,  or  know- 
ingly contributed  information.      That  Lord  Holland  was 


INFORMATION   DERIVBO   FROM   DR.    FRANCIS.  Ivii 

• 

miacqaainted  with  Junias,  is  highly  probable :  his  Lordshi|j 
iras  a  man  of  the  vrorld.  of  the  Walpole  school  of  politics,  oi 
a  kind,  affable  disposition,  and  associated  much  with  those  iu 
direct  communion  with  Junius;  but  it  is  likely  he  himself  had 
no  knowledge  of  the  writer,  and  was  unconscious  that  he  was 
aiding  him  by  information.  This  will  appear  from  a  fact  I 
shall  soon  mention.  As  to  Lord  Chatham,  he  would  probably 
seek  a  communication  with  Junius  on  discovering  that  he  was 
his  former  Latin  Secretary,  but  not  till  after  the  Letters  had 
become  popular. 

The  position  of  Dr.  Francis,  as  the  chaplain  of  Lord  Hol- 
land, living  intimately  with  his  Lordship,  and  as  the  author 
of  political  pamphlets  early  in  the  reign  of  George  III.,  has 
been  already  described.  At  this  period  Lord  Holland  had 
retired  from  the  King*s  service,  but  continued  a  great  favourite 
at  Court.  He  was,  in  fact,  the  confidential  adviser  both  of 
the  King  and  Lord  Bute,  in  the  chief  ministerial  crises  that 
occurred  from  1763  to  1770.  Speaking  of  one  of  these  junc- 
tures in  1767,  Mr.  Adolphus  says,  *'  Lord  Chatham's  health 
was  now  deemed  irrecoverable,  and  the  ministry  were  neither 
benefited  by  his  advice,  nor  supported  by  his  popularity.  They 
wanted  a  distinguished  leader  of  talent,  character,  and  repu- 
tation, who  could  give  .efficacy  to  their  measures,  and  by  force 
of  superior  powers  enchain  those  minor  pretenders  who,  in  the 
absence  of  such  a  chief,  disdained  submission  and  embroiled 
the  cabinet."  It  was  in  this  disorder  of  his  administration 
that  Lord  Chatham  wrote  to  the  King,  representing  his  health 
as  so  bad  that  it  was  impossible  he  could  afford  further  assist 
ance  to  his  Majesty,  but  recommending  that  the  Duke  of 
Grafton  should  be  prevailed  upon  to  continue  at  the  head  of 
the  Treasury*.  In  this  extremity  Lord  But«  applied  to  his 
former  associate.  Lord  Holland,  who,  as  leader  of  the  House 
of  Commons,  had  so  materially  assisted  him  in  procuring  a 
parliamentary  approval  of  the  peace  of  1763.  Lord  Holkmd 
sent  bis  advice,  July  5t,  and  the  result  was  an  attempt  to 
strengthen  the  ministry  by  a  union  with  the  Bedford  and 
Rockingham  parties.  But  it  failed.  On  the  21st  Lord  Rock 
in^ham  waited  on  the  King,  and  immediately  after  his  Lord 
ship  left  the  King's  closet  Lord  Holland  was  introduced  {^ 
The  final  issue  of  the  consultation  was,  that  the  Duke  of 

*  Obathm  Papen.   f  Almon'e  Life  of  the  Earl  of  Chatham,  toL  il  p.  1167. 

t  Ibid.  ToL  ii  p.  180,  note. 


Iviii  THS   HI5T0RT  AND  DISCOYEnY  OF  JUNIDB. 

Graftons  ministry  was  reinforced  by  the  friends  of  the  Duke 
of  Bedford  ;  and  it  was  this  ducal  union  that  subsequently 
rendered  the  Dukes  of  Grafton  and  Bedford  the  bitter  objects 
of  the  attacks  of  Junius,  when  his  patron,  Lord  Chatham,  had 
recovered,  and  was  eager  to  destroy  the  Grafton  ministry. 

Having  given  evidence  of  the  private  and  confidential  inter- 
course maintained  by  Lord  Holland  with  the  Court,  I  shall 
next  show  tlie  intimacy  subsisting  between  Lord  Holland  and 
his  chaplain.  It  may  be  first  remarked,  that  Dr.  Francis  was 
also  chaplain  of  Chelsea  Hospital,  as  well  as  the  favourite 
chaplain  of  the  celebrated  Earl  of  Chesterfield,  to  whom  he 
dedicated  his  play  of  Comtantine,  Besides  his  learned  and 
dramatic  accomplishments,  he  was  a  man  of  varied  social  inter- 
course, living  in  confidential  communication  with  the  highest 
personages.  George  III.  used  to  honour  him  with  audiences, 
probably  from  the  fame  of  his  classical  translations.  Gibbon 
the  historian,  who  had  been  his  pupil,  bears  testimony  to  the 
Doctor's  attachment  to  the  diversified  society  of  London.  He 
frequently  met  Garrick  at  the  houses  of  Lord  Holland,  Foote, 
and  other  mutual  friends.  Garrick  brought  out  at  Drury  Lane 
Dr.  Francis's  tragedy  of  Eugenia^  and  in  the  part  of  "  Mer- 
cour"  exerted  himself  greatly  to  promote  its  success.  He  was 
also  on  familiar  terms  with  Mr.  John  Calcraft,  the  army  agent, 
and  who  will  in  the  sequel  of  this  exposition  be  found  to  have 
acted  a  principal  ^art.  Speaking  of  Lord  Holland,  Mr.  Heron 
says : — 

'*  Daring  the  busiest  period  of  his  political  life  Mr.  John  Calcraft  was  his 
confidential  clerk  and  humble  friend.  He  lived  much  in  the  house  of  Calcraft, 
in  Parliament  Street,  while  Mrs.  G.  A.  Bellamy  presided  at  that  gentleman's 
table.  She  introduced  to  him  Dr.  Philip  Francis,  the  translator  of  Horace, 
who  became  his  chaplain,  was  otherwise  promoted  under  his  patronage,  was 
made  the  &miliar  companion  of  his  convivial  hours  at  the  house  of  Calcraft, 
and  was  probably  excited  by  him  to  undertake  his  translation  of  Demosthenes. 
Calcraft  was  enriched  under  Mr.  Fox's  protection  till  he  aspired  to  an  equality 
with  his  master.  When  he  could  not  rise  to  the  height  of  his  ambition  on 
the  same  side  in  politics  with  Fox,  he  deserted  to  Lord  Chatham  and  the 
GrenvilleSi  was  received  into  their  confidence,  and  became  an  outcageoug 
patriot."— Z«««r<  ofJtmius,  vol.  ii.  p.  261. 

With  Dr.  Francis  moving  in  the  circle  I  have  described,  it 
is  obvious  that  the  younger  Francis,  as  Junius,  would  command 
fi  ready  channel  from  which  to  draw  court  and  political  news, 
and  whence,  most  probably,  were  derived  those  anecdotes  (A 
tbe  private  life  of  the  King,  of  the  Princess  Dowager  of  Wales, 


OOKKECTION   OF  DR.    FKAN'CIS   WITH   JUNIUS.  lU 

of  the  bnital  behaviour  of  the  Duke  of  Bedford  to  his  Sove- 
reiffn,  of  the  intelligence  conve3'ed  by  Garrick  to  Richmond, 
and  of  those  changes  in  the  superior  offices  of  the  government 
which  he  so  promptly  communicated.  It  also  explains  why 
Junius  spared  the  Holland  family,  he  himself  having  received 
favours  from  it,  and  his  father  continuing  intimately  identified 
with  it,  and  the  origin  of  the  wish  he  expressed  to  Woodfall, 
that  liOrd  Holland  **  may  acquit  himself  with  honour,"  in  reply 
to  the  charge  of  malversation. 

But  though  Junius  respected  and  spared  the  family  of  Lord  .  / 
Holland,  I  shall  in  this  place  adduce  a  piece  of  information, 
showing  such  relations  of  Junius  towards  it  as  will,  I  appre- 
hend, be  unexpected  by  the  public.  I  have  already  stated, 
that  Mr.  Taylor  in  his  Junius  Identified,  in  the  first  instance, 
fixed  upon  Dr.  Francis  as  the  author  of  the  Letters.  But  it 
appears,  and  I  state  this  on  the  best  authority,  that  Dr.  Francis 
was  entirely  unconnected  with  the  writings  of  Junius ;  and  he 
was  as  much  in  the  dark  respecting  the  author  as  any  reader  of 
the  Public  Advertiser,  This  information  has  been  kindly  com 
municated  to  me  by  the  grandson  of  Sir  Philip  Francis,  upon 
the  authority  of  a  letter  of  Dr.  Francis,  in  his  possession.  Mr. 
Francis  is  in  possession  of  his  grandfather's  curious  collection 
of  MSS  ;  and  further  informs  me  that  the  views  of  Dr.  Francis 
differed  from  those  of  his  son  on  many  questions  discussed  by 
Junius ;  and  he  conceives  that  "  Sir  Philip  purposely  concealed 
the  secret  from  his  father,  so  long  as  it  continued  his  exclusive 
property."  From  this  important  explanation,  I  infer  the  proba- 
bility that  both  Lord  Holland  and .  Dr.  Francis  were  uncon- 
scious contributors  to  the  Junius  bulletins;  and  it  is  not 
unlikely  that  certain  disclosures  in  them  may  have  led  to  such 
discoveries  and  explanations  between  the  elder  and  younger 
Francis  as  stopped  further  supplies,  and  *'  the  habits  of  the 
closest  intimacy,  which  had  prevailed  between  father  and  son, 
were  finally  broken  off."* 

I  turn  next  to  the  Chatham  branch  of  the  connection  as  a 
source  of  intelligence.  Differing  probably  from  his  father  in 
this  respect,  Junius  throughout  his  career  was  the  ardent  and 
consistent  admirer  of  the  Earl  of  Chatham.  From  the  Chat- 
Sam  Correspondence,  lately  published  under  the  editorship  of 
tine  grandsons  of  Lord  Chatham,  it  appears  that  Junius  pri- 
rately  addressed  letters  to  his  Lordship.  In  the  first  cf  these 
'  Prittite  Letten  of  H.  R.  Francis.  Esq.,  dated  April  26,  and  A'ay  20, 185a 


U  THE   HISTORY   AND   DISC0VEK7   OF  JUNIUS. 

letters,  which  is  dated  January  2,  1768,  he  sayd,  **  I  have  an 
opportunity  of  knowing  something,  and  you  may  depend  on  my 
veracity."  As  Francis,  Junius  certainly  had  an  opportunity  of 
**  knowing  something ;"  he  then  comments  on  the  conduct  of 
Lord  Chatham's  colleagues  in  the  ministry,  and  the  treachery 
of  some  of  them,'  concluding  with : — **  the  man  who  presumes 
to  give  your  Lordship  these  hints  admires  your  character 
without  servility,  and  is  convinced  that  if  this  country  can  be 
saved,  it  must  be  saved  by  Lord  Chatham's  spirit,  by  Lord 
Chatham's  abilities."*  The  letter  is  marked  **  private  and 
secret ;  to  be  opened  by  Lord  Chatham  only."  The  second 
letter  was  more  remarkable,  inclosing  proof-sheets  of  the  letters 
which  Junius  was  about  to  address  to  Lord  Chief  Justice 
Mansfield  and  Lord  Camden,  the  facts  of  which  have  been 
already  noticed f.  A  copy  of  Eyre's  commitment  accompanied 
this  letter,  which  Junius  had  obtained  from  Wilkes.  The 
letter  is  dated  January  14, 1772,  and  is  marked  "  most  secret." 
Junius  concludes  by  saying,  "  Retired  and  unknown,  I  live  in 
the  shade,  and  have  only  a  speculative  ambition.  In  the 
warmth  of  my  imagination,  I  sometimes  conceive  that,  when 
Junius  exerts  his  utmost  faculties  in  the  service  of  his  country, 
he  approaches  in  theory  to  that  exalted  character  which  Lord 
Chatham  alone  fills  up,  and  uniformly  supports  in  action.'*  J 
Facsimiles  of  both  these  letters  are  given  in  the  Chatluim 
Correspondence ;  the  handwriting  more  closely  resembles  the 
natural  than  the  feigned  hand  of  Sir  Philip  Francis,  and  with 
the  former  Lord  Chatham  must  have  been  familiar,  Francis 
having  been  his  secretary. 

The  exact  time  when  Junius  became  known  to  Lord  Chat- 
ham I  have  no  means  of  stating,  but  that  he  did  know  him 
I  have  the  authority  of  Lady  Francis  §  for  affiiming,  and  that 
his  Lordship  aided  him  with  information.  The  object  of 
both,  as  stated,  w^s  to  break  up  the  Grafton  Ministry,  and 
Chatham  thought  the  writings  of  Junius  would  effect  this. 
The  event  occurred,  but  not  so  soon  as  was  expected,  and 
when  it  did  happen,  the  elevation  of  Lord  North  to  the  Pre- 
miership came  on  everybody  by  surprise. 

'i'he  communications  of  Lord  Chatham  with  Junius,  it  is 
probable,  were  chiefly  carried  on  by  Mr.  John  Calcraft,  the 
army    agent,    and    Lord  Chatham's   confidential   secretary. 

*  Chatham  Papers,  vol.  iii.  p.  805.        f  Private  Letters,  n3te,  p.  52. 
t  Chatham  Pap.,  vol.  iv.  p.  194.  §  LeL  from  Lady  FiancU,  Apr.,  ISM 


COKNECTION  OF  LORD  CHATHi^M  WITH  JUNIUS.  Ixi 

Calcraft  was  a  member  of  the  House  of  (Dommona,  but, 
according  to  Junius,  gave  silent  votes.  He  was,  however, 
though  not  a  speaker,  an  actor,  extensively  connected  and 
well-informed  in  state  transactions.  In  the  higher  depart- 
ments of  public  afifairs,  as  in  the  conduct  of  a  lawsuit,  a 
division  of  labour  is  unavoidable. .  It  is  sufficient  occupa- 
tion for  a  Fii*st  Lord  of  the  Treasury,  Chancellor  of  the 
Exchequer,  or  Secretary  of  State,  to  exercise  Lis  patron- 
age, attend  cabinet  councils,  grant  audiences,  deliver  speeches, 
sign  despatches,  and  prepare  budgets,  of  which  the  chief 
materials  have  been  necessarily  collected  by  assistants,  but 
of  which  ministers  have  the  honour  and  responsibility.  Burke, 
on  the  commencement  of  his  public  life,  filled  a  situation  of 
this  description  under  the  Marquis  of  Rockingham,  as  did  Mr. 
W.  Gerard  Hamilton  under  Lord  Townshend,  and  Mr.  Jenkin- 
son,  afterwards  Lord  Liverpool,  under  the  Earl  of  Bute ;  Mr 
Calcraft  held  a  similar  appointment,  first  under  Lord  Holland, 
and  next  under  the  Earl  of  Chatham.  In  1763,  under  the 
Bute-Holland  administration,  he  was  deputy-commissary- 
general  of  musters,  from  which  he  was  removed  in  December, 
in  consequence  probably  of  what  had  appeared  in  the  news- 
papers on  September  1  preceding,  stating  that,  "  Mr.  Pitt 
and  Lord  Temple  had,  on  the  preceding  day,  paid  a  visit  to 
Mr  Calcraft,  which  lasted  two  hours."  From  this  period, 
Mr  Calcraft *s  connection  with  Lord  Chatham  began,  and 
continued  with  unabated  and  mutual  confidence  till  his  death 
in  1772. 

When  Chatham  was  confined  by  gout  at  Hayes  or  Bath, 
Calcraft  was  his  London  correspondent,  collecting  court  and 
city  news,  reporting  debates  and  motions  in  Parliament, 
and  apprising  him  of  any  royal  audience  at  St.  Jameses,  or 
other  party  movement  of  his  Lordship's  political  adversaries. 
His  industry,  fidelity,  and  varied  sources  of  intelligence  are 
amply  attested  in  the  Chatham  Papers ;  the  editors  of  which 
had  placed  at  their  disposal,  by  John  Hales  Calcraft,  Esq., 
of  Carlton  Gardens,  his  grandfather's  correspondence  with 
Lord  Chatham.  The  quarrel  between  Mr.  Pitt  and  his  brother 
in-law.  Lord  Temple,  in  1766,  on  the  disposal  of  places,  appears 
from  this  work  to  have  been  made  up  two  years  after  by  the 
intervention  of  their  common  friend,  Mr.  Calcraft.  As  a  pre- 
lude to  this  amicable  arrangement,  Mr.  Calcraft  writes  to  Mr 
Pitt* — '*July  15,  1766, — I  have  some  reason  to  fear  Lord 

e  2 


Ixii  THE  HtRTOEY   AND  DISCOYEKY  OF  JUKIFB. 

Temple's  reception  at  Richmond  was  not  the  most  flattering^ 
of  which  I  take  the  liberty  to  give  you  this  hint,  as  you  pos- 
Bibly  may  qualify  it  at  your  meeting.  I  can  confirm  what  I 
6did,  that  there  are  no  engagements,  and  must  do  his  Lordship 
the  justice  to  add,  his  sentiments  towards  you  are  what  I  wished 
to  find  them."*  But  that  which  most  concerns  the  present 
exposition  is  the  interchange  of  intelligence  between  Mr, 
Calcraft  and  the  author  of  Junius.  That  such  communica- 
tions were  carried  on,  and  the  most  friendly  intimacy  sub- 
sisted between  Mr.  Calcraft  and  Sir  Philip  Francis,  I  will 
adduce  indubitable  proofs. 

First,  as  evidenced  by  the  ChcUham  Papers.  On  the 
opening  of  the  session  of  1770,  Mr.  Calcraft  informed  Lord 
Chatham  of  the  names  of  the  members  in  both  Houses  that 
were  to  move  and  second  the  addresses.  Lord  Chatham 
delivered  two  speeches  on  this  occasion;  twenty- two*  years 
aftei%  as  already  stated,  they  were  printed  by  Almon  from  a 
report  furnished  by  Sir  Philip  Francis,  who  was  present,  and 
they  were  by  him  revised  and  corrected  in  1813,  for  the  Parlia- 
mentary History ;  the  remarkable  fiact  connected  with  them  is 
that  the  most  striking  passages  in  the  speeches  are  nearly 
identical  with  passages  in  Junius.  It  is  not  improbable  that  Sir 
P.  Francis  composed  those  speeches  for  Lord  Chatham ;  he 
certainly  composed  many  of  his  Lordship's  speeches.  In  Sir 
Philip  Francis's  copy  of  Bel  sham's  History  uf  Great  Britain, 
vol.  V.  p.  298,  sold  at  Evans's,  in  February,  1838,  there 
Bjipears  the  following  manuscript  note : — 

**  I  wrote  this  speech  for  Lord  Mansfielcl,  as  well  as  all  those  of  Lord 
Chatham  on  the  Middlesex  election. — P.  F." — Vide  Evans's  Catalogue  of  tlt€ 
J^ihrary  of  the  late  Sir  P,  FraTicis,  p.  3. 

The  speech  of  Lord  Chatham,  March  2, 1770,  was  inserted 
in  the  Public  Advertiser ,  March  6,  and  is  known  to  have  been 
reported  by  Junius  from  the  letter  that  accompanied  it  in 
that  Journal.  Contemporary  with  his  labour  for  the  Public 
Advertiser,  Junius  contributed  political  papers  for  the  London 
Museum,  Almon's  Political  Register,  and  other  periodicals. 
His  industry  is  inconceivable,  but  all  his  untiring  efiforts  had 
one  great  and  leading  aim — the  glory  of  Chatham,  for  whom 
through  life  he  cherished  a  grateful  and  unswerving  admira- 
tion. 

^lie  noble  nane  of  Granby  gave  lustre  and  strength  to 
*  Ckatbam  Co.Tespond^\icey  vol.  ii.  p.  445. 


CALCRAFT'S   CONVECTION   WITH   JUNIUS.  Iziil 

die  Grafton  ministry,  which  never  recovered  the  loss  it  suf- 
fered by  his  resignation  of  the  command  of  the  army,  occa- 
sioned by  the  writings  of  Junius,  co-operating  with  the  personal 
solicitations  of  Lord  Chatham's  friends.  Mr.  Calcraft,  January 
20,  1770,  writes  to  Lord  Chatham, — "  I  can  from  authority 
assure  your  Lordship,  that  General  Conway  has  refused  the 
Ordnance,  adding  that  he  will  take  none  of  Lord  Granby's 
spoils."  On  the  30th,  Calcraft  writes^ — '*  T  can  from  the 
best  authority  assure  your  Lordship  the  Duke  of  Grafton  has 
resigned."  To  the  surprise  of  the  nation  the  Duke  had 
resigned  on  the  evening  of  the  28th,  and  Lord  North,  already 
ChsuDcellor  of  the  Exchequer,  was  appointed  his  successor. 
Mr.  Calcraft  continues, — "  The  Duko  of  Grafton  has  resolved 
on  this  step  ever  since  Lord  Granby's  resignation,  and  the  un- 
reasonable demands  of  his  Bedford  friends  have  confirmed  him 
in  that  resolution."  This  unexpected  turn  of  affairs  made  the 
Chathamites  furious;  in  the  rage  of  disappointment  even 
Lord  Chatham  lost  his  temper,  and  replies  to  Calcraft,  April 
10, — '•  The  state  of  the  House  of  Commons,  from  what  passed 
last  week,  is  certainly  very  critical,  and  the  conduct  of  the 
more  immediate  Bute  faction  there,  with  the  Lord  Deputy 
North  at  the  head  of  the  illustrious  band,  glares  more  and 
more  in  the  eyes  of  the  world,  and  more  augments  the  univer- 
sal abhorrence."* 

Mr.  Calcraft  despatched  court  gossip  to  Hayes,  as  well  am 
weightier  matters.  March  24,  1770,  he  informs  Chatham, — 
"  The  court  thinks  the  ministers  have  stopped  too  short  in  the 
persecution  of  the  city  magistrates,  and  the  language  of 
Thursday  was,  *  My  ministers  have  no  spirit ;  they  don't  pur- 
sue measures  with  any  spirit.'  There  is  great  confusion 
amongst  them ;  and  if  we  stand  by  the  people  as  we  ought, 
and  take  another  early  opportunity  to  show  it,  it  will  have  the 
best  effect,  for,  notwithstanding  high  words,  there  is  great 
alarm."  On  the  29th  Calcraft  relates  how  their  friends  are 
moving  in  the  city, — "  1  break  my  letter  open  to  tell  you 
Mr.  Sawbridge  has  just  been  here.  To  my  great  concern  he 
informs  me  tJiat  the  Lord  Mayor  and  the*  leading  people  of 
Middlesex  are  so  offended  by  the  half  support  given  to  the 
city  remonstrance  and  total  neglect  of  that  for  Westminster, 
that  they  mean  not  to  remonstrate  to-morrow.  I  have  mode- 
fatei  the  city  warmth  against  any  part  of  opposition  for  several 
*  Cbatbam  fiorretpondence,  voL  iii.  p  44S. 


Ixiv  THE   HISTOBY   AND   DISCOVEBT   OF  JUNIUS. 

days ;  but  fear  it  will  Itreak  out  at  last.*'*  On  the  evoning 
of  October  19,  Aldermiin  Sawbridge  called  on  Calcraft,  and 
reported  to  him  that  the  Recorders  business  had  ended 
satisfactorily.  November  28,  Calcraft  writes  to  Chatham, — 
'  Your  Lordship  gave  me  great  private  satisfaction  in  what 
you  so  generously  said  about  my  friend  Sawbridge."  Alder- 
man Sawbridge  was  M.P.  for  Hythe.  Mr.  Beckford,  the 
fearless  and  patriotic  magistrate,  dying  21st  June,  1770,  he 
was  succeeded,  as  already  stated,  by  Mr.  Sawbridge  in  the 
management  of  the  Chatham  party  in  the  city. 

I  shall  next  show  the  co-partnership  of  Junius  in  these  pro- 
ceedings. Of  the  powerful  aid  he  was  affording  by  his  pen, 
his  Letters  in  the  Pvhlic  Advertiser  are  sufficient  proof,  aided 
by  the  explanatory  private  notes  addressed  to  Mr.  Woodfall. 
But  the  public  had  no  evidence  of  his  transactions  with  Lord 
Chatham's  political  attorney  till  the  recent  publication  of  the 
Correspondence. 

In  the  postscript  of  a  letter  to  Chatham,  dated  April  23, 
1770,  Mr.  Calcraft  says, — "  A  servant  has  just  brought  the  en- 
closed, which  contains  such  veiy  material  intelligence  that  I 
send  it  for  your  Lordship's  perusal."  The  inclosure  referred 
to,  the  editors  of  the  Correspondence  state,  **  is  in  the  hand- 
writing of  Sir  Philip  Francis,"  of  which  they  give  a  fac-simile. 
The  inclosure  gives  Calcraft  the  particulars  of  the  serious 
riots  in  Boston  in  the  preceding  March,  of  which  intelligence 
had  just  arrived  from  America,  which  the  writer  says  he  had 
"from  very  good  authority."  It  concludes,  "Pray  let  me 
liave  notice  of  the  day  of  Lord  Chatham's  motion.  Wilkes 
will  he  there.'' ^  His  Lordship's  motion  was  made  May  4 ; 
it  inculpated  the  King's  answer  to  the  city  address  and  remon- 
strance ;  and  Lord  Chatham's  speech  on  the  occasion,  say  the 
editors,  **  bears  internal  evidence  of  being  reported  by  Junius."  J 
Perhaps  he  had  previously  composed  it,  and  then  the  reporting 
it  afterwards  would  be  easy  enough,  and  likely  to  be  faithful. 
On  a  previous  occasion  (March  18)  Mr.  Calcraft  writes  to 
Earl  Temple,  **  Just  as  your  Lordship  left  me  a  friend  came 
in,  who  says  he.  hears  a  strong  report  that  they  [the  minis- 

•  Vide  Private  Letters  to  Woodfall,  No.  22,  and  notes,  p.  801.  To  un- 
derstand passing  occurrences,  and  to  save  repetitions,  it  will  be  often  necessanr 
to  tnm  to  the  Letters  of  Junius,  private,  public,  and  miscellaneous,  oi  tt:« 
C^aresponding  dates,  and  the  notes  api  ended  to  them. 

t  Chatham  Tapeir,  vol.  iii.  p.  44  f.  T  Ihid.  toL  ill.  p.  468. 


EARL   temple's  CONNECTION   WITH  JUNIUS.  IXf 

lOTBj  disagree  among  themselves  on  the  difficulties  they  ma;f 
be  involved  in  and  have  resolved  not  to  proceed  upon  the  re<* 
monstrance  to-morrow."  Upon  this  the  editors  of  Chatham 
ask,  "Was  not  this  'friend'  Sir  Philip  Francis?"  Highly 
probable ;  but  Caleraft  was  too  conversant  with  the  world  to 
lessen  the  importance  of  his  intelligence,  by  informing  Lord 
Temple  that  die  "  friend  '*  who  had  left  him  was  young  Mr 
Francis,  a  clerk  in  the  War  Office. 

A  further,  and  remarkable  contribution  of  the  "  friend**  de 
serves  to  be  noted.  It  is  an  extract  from  a  letter  addressed 
to  Mr.  Caleraft,  which  he  forwarded  to  Lord  Chatham,  and  is 
endorsed  by  his  Lordship  '*  Received  December  9,  and  well 
worth  attention.**  On  the  10th  there  was  a  warm  debate 
in  the  House  of  Lords,  on  the  conduct  of  Chief  Justice 
Mansfield  on  the  trial  of  Woodfall,  of  which  an  account  has 
been  given*.  Of  the  speech  made  by  Lord  Chatham  on  the 
occasion  two  reports  have  been  preserved,  both  taken  by 
Junius,  and  in  both  the  above-mentioned  extract  is  incorpo' 
rated  verbatim.  For  the  extract,  and  the  remark  of  Junius  on 
the  report  being  *'  taken  with  exactness,**  see  p.  3Q4.  In  an- 
other communication  of  Mr.  Caleraft  to  Lord  Chatham,  relative 
to  the  speech  of  Lord  North  on  the  probability  of  war  with 
Spain,  the  words  used  by  him  are  nearly  identical  with  those 
used  by  Junius  f,  and  which  it  is  likely  he  had  received  from 
the  same  **  friend.'* 

Did  not  I  fear  exhausting  the  patience  of  the  reader,  I 
could  adduce  other  ramifications  of  intelligence  and  personal 
connection  elucidatory  of  the  secret  history  of  this  period,  and 
intimately  connected  with  the  authorship  of  Junius.  Lord 
Temple,  a  man  of  literary  tastes,  an  active  politician,  and  by 
some  thought  to  be  Junius,  it  is  probable  enough  knew  the 
writer,  and  obtained  the  knowledge  from  his  brother-in-law,  the 
Earl  of  Chatham.  The  probability  of  Lord  Temple  s  privity 
will  appear  from  what  I  am  going  to  relate.  In  a  letter  written 
by  Daniel  Wray,  Esq.,  whom  I  have  before  noticed  (ante,  p 
xxiv.),  dated  Nov.  22, 1772,  and  addressed  to  Lord  Hardvvicke. 
is  the  following: — "The  divisions  are  great  in  the  enemy's 
camp,  particularly  between  Lords  Temple  and  Camden,  about 
the  author  of  Junius 's  Letters.**  Upon  these  lines  the  late  Mr 
Justice  Hardinge,  Solicitor- General  to  Queen  Charlotte,  in  his 
Miscellaneoiis  Works  remarks, — *'  These  few  words  are  of  no 

*  Mitcel  LeUers,  No.  82,  p.  828.        f  Miscel.  Letters,  No.  81,  p.  318. 


iXVJ  THE   HISTORY   AKD     DISCOVERY    OF  JUNIUS. 

trivial  import,  and  they  wonderfully  confirm  a  passage  in  a 
conversation  between  Lord  Camden  and  me.  Ho  told  me  that 
many  things  in  Junius  convinced  him  that  the  materials  werd 
prompted  by  Eai'i  Temple,  and  he  mentioned  in  particular  a 
confidential  statement  which  had  been  made  in  pnvate  between 
Lord  Chatham,  Lord  Temple,  and  Lord  Camden,  which,  from 
the  nature  of  it,  could  only  have  been  disclosed  by  Lord  Tem- 
ple, through  Junius,  to  the  public."  Whether  the  information 
was  communicated  by  Temple  or  Chatham,  it  shows  that  one 
or  both  were  at  this  period  in  correspondence  vdth  Junius,  and 
it  is  likely  knew  him  as  well  as  the  Grenvilles,  they  being  all 
by  marriage  one  family  connection. 

At  this  period  Lord  Temple  maintained  a  constant  inter- 
course with  Mr.  John  Almon,  the  celebrated  literaiy  bookseller 
and  political  writer.  Mr.  Almon  enjoyed  in  a  high  degree  the 
confidence  of  his  Lordship,  who  introduced  him  to  the  Duke 
of  Devonshire,  Lord  Rockingham,  and  other  patrician  leaders 
of  the  liberal  party.  This  acquaintance  made  Mr.  Almon  the 
oracle  of  his  day,  and  his  shop  the  resort  of  the  most  distin- 
guished public  characters.  Lord  Chatham  was  also  among 
Mr,  Almonds  associates  and  correspondents.  Indeed,  it  may 
be  observed  of  this  great  man,  that  he  honoured  and  sought 
out  worth  and  ability  in  every  grade  of  life,  military  or  civile 
whether  it  was  a  bookseller,  clerk  in  the  War  Ofl&ce,  or  a  jour 
neyman  printer*.  The  connections  of  Sir  Philip  Francis 
with  Almon  have  been  repeatedly  mentioned,  and  Calcrafc 
was  a  regular  correspondent ;  but  I  must  be  content  with 
an  extract  from  a  letter  dated  Ingress,  Jan.  1772  Calcraft 
informs  Mr.  Almon,  **  My  firm  belief  is,  that  Lord  Shelbume 
was  at  the  Queen  b  house.  I  had  it  from  one  of  his  intimates. 
Be  assured  that  I  never  show  a  line  to  anybody  that  comes 
from  you.  I  have  lived  long  enough  to  be  caution  itself,  and 
to  no  quarter  more  than  where  you  allude.  I  send  you  some 
Kentish  brawn,  which  I  hope  you  will  find  good."t 

*  When  Lord  Chatham  was  in  the  height  of  his  power,  Dr.  Franklin 
relates,  in  his  ''  Life/'  that  he  often  visited  his  Lordship  at  Hayes.  On  one 
occasion  Lord  Chatham  visited  Franklin  at  his  lodgings  in  Craven  Street. 
*'  He  stayed  with  me"  says  Franklin,  ''near  two  hours,  his  equipage  waiting 
at  the  door ;  and  being  there  while  people  were  coming  from  church,  it  was 
taken  much  notice  of  and  talked  of,  as  at  that  time  was  every  little  circum* 
stance  that  men  thought  might  possibly  in  acy  way  affect  American  affiurs.** 

+  Found,  with  numerous  other  letters  fiom  public  characters,  among  Ma 
iLlmon's  papers,  and  published  in  the  Memoirs  qf  an  £min€nt  Booittilttm 


PBOBABLE  OBiaiN   OF   THE   LETTF.RS.  ']xVV 

Ample  indications  have,  I  apprehend,  been  given  to  establish 
that  Sir  Philip  Francis,  pending  the  Junius  era,  lived  in  the 
centre  of  intelligence.  The  t\?o  great  political  divisions  of  the 
time  were,  the  Court  on  one  side,  on  the  other  the  Whig  nobility, 
often  divided  among  themselves,  but  always  united  against  the 
Bute-Holland  coterie  at  St.  James's.  Although  holding  only 
a  subordinate  place  in  the  War  Office,  without  the  possibility 
of  exercising  any  direct  personal  influence  on  public  affairs,  it 
is  hardly  possible  to  imagine  how  any  one  could  be  more  ad- 
vantageously situated  than  Francis  was,  and  with  inclination 
and  ability  to  make  the  most  of  his  opportunities.  He  was 
placed  at  the  central  point  of  information.  On  the  one 
hand  be  informed  himself  by  intercourse  with  Dr.  Francis 
and  his  friends  of  all  that  was  most  confidential  at  St.  James's ; 
on  the  other,  by  intercourse  with  Mr.  Calcraft,  a  veteran  place- 
man, with  numerous  and  influential  political  ramifications. 
Francis  himself  must  have  been  personally  cognizant  of  the 
chief  military  transactions,  and  of  a  great  deal  that  occurred 
in  the  public  offices,  from  his  position  at  the  Horse  Guards. 
Impatient  of  obscurity,  possessed  of  extraordinary  energy  and 
great  abilities,  both  natural  and  acquired,  vdtli  vast  sources 
of  intelligence  within  his  reach, — all  these  combined,  most  pro 
bably  suggested  to  him  the  plan  of  his  famous  Letters. 

In  the  preceding  exposition,  it  may  perhaps  be  thought 
that  the  links  of  connection  between  Calcraft  and  Sir  P. 
Francis,  and  as  deduced  therefrom,  the  identity  of  Sir 
Philip  with  Junius,  have  not  been  sufficiently  proved.  This 
apparent  deficiency  I  will  proceed  to  supply.  It  is  unneces- 
sary to  dwell  on  the  apparently  counter  testimony  drawn  from 
the  disparaging  comments  of  Junius  on  Mr.  Calcraft ;  these, 
in  all  likelihood,  after  the  wonted  fashion  of  the  writer,  were 
meant  only  for  mystification,  or  it  is  possible  that  at  the  period 
Junius  had  not  revealed  himself  to  Calcraft.  That  they 
ultimately  became  known  to  each  other,  and  intimate  friends, 
I  vrill  establish ;  as  well  as  that  at  a  subsequent  period  of  his 
life.  Sir  P.  Francis  took  effective  precautions  to  destroy  the 
evidence  of  all  pre-existing  connection. 

The  reader  has  been  apprized  of  the  disappointment  of  Sir 
P.  Francis  in  not  being  appointed  Deputy  Secretary-at-War*, 
which  he  esteemed  his  due  from  seniority  of  service,  in  pre- 
ference to  Mr.  Chamier,  and  of  Sir  Philip  s  abrupt  remoTal 

*  Ante,  p.  xxziii.,  and  the  Letter  of  Veteran,  Misc.  Letters,  No.  llOl 


txviii  TTt£  HI8T0BT  AKT   DI800TEBT  OF  JUKIUB. 

from  the  War  Office,  immediately  after,  by  Lord  BarringtoiL 
Pending  these  movements  Mr.  Calcraft  appears  to  have  strenu« 
ously  exerted  himself  to  serve  Francis^  and  even  to  compen- 
sate him  for  his  ofBcial  deprivation.  In  a  letter  dated  Ingress, 
January  13,  177^/2,  addressed  to  Mr.  Almon,  and  inserted  in 
Mr.  Almon 's  Memoirs,  p.  83,  Mr.  Calcraft  says, — **  If  you 
put  in  paragraphs,  put  that  Mr.  Francis  is  appointed  Deputy 
Secretary-at-War,  and  continues  his  present  employment  also. 
It  will  teaze  the  worthy  secretary  [Lord  Harrington],  as  I  well 
know,  and  oblige  me.  I  will  give  you  my  reasons,  when  you 
will  find  more  folly  in  that  noble  lord  than  even  you  thought 
him  capable  of."  In  another  letter  he  adds,—"  I  was  not 
misinformed ;  I  knew  Francis  was  not  deputy,  but  I  wished 
him  to  be  so  ;  and  to  cram  the  newspapers  ^th  paragraphs 
that  he  was  so.  For  he  is  very  deserving,''  These  extracts 
have  a  twofold  value,  as  showing  the  lively  interest  felt  by 
Mr.  Calcraft  in  the  promotion  of  Sir  P.  Francis,  and  the  high 
opinion  formed  by  him  of  his  worth  and  public  deserts. 

But  this  was  not  the  limit  of  Mr.  Calcraft's  endeavours  in 
favour  of  his  friend,  for  whom  he  failed  to  obtain  the  appoint- 
ment of  Deputy,  but  compensated  him  for  his  loss.  On  the 
20th  of  March,  1772,  Francis  was  dismissed  from  the  War 
Office,  and  on  the  same  day  Calcraft  added  a  codicil  to  his  will, 
bequeathing  to  him  the  sum  of  1000/.  and  an  annuity  of  260L 
for  life  to  Mrs.  Francis.  The  intimate  and  friendly  ties, 
therefore,  subsisting  between  Calcraft  and  Francis  cannot  be 
doubted.  I  shall  next  refer  to  the  subsequent  act  of  Sir  P. 
Francis,  from  which  he  was  evidently  apprehensive  of  unsea- 
sonable discoveries  After  perusing  the  Chatham  Papers,  and 
the  evidence  they  afforded  of  the  confidential  connection  be- 
tween Calcraft  and  Sir  P.  Francis,  and  knowing  that  the 
present  Mr.  Calcraft  had  placed  at  the  disposal  of  the  editors 
of  that  work,  all  the  papers  of  his  grandfather  in  relation  to 
Lord  Chatham,  it  occurred  to  me  that  there  might  remain  in 
Mr.  Calcraft's  possession  letters  and  papers  which  Sir  P. 
Francis  had  addressed  to  the  Earl's  secretary,  and  which  would 
throw  light  on  the  subject  of  my  inquiries  into  the  authorship 
of  Junius.  Under  this  impression,  I  wrote  to  Mr.  Calcraft, 
but,  almost  immediately  after  I  had  done  so,  I  learned  from  an 
unquestionable  source,  that  my  application  would  be  fruitless, 
as,  nearly  half  a  century  ago.  Sir  Philip  Francis,  aware,  no 
doubt,  that  a  mine  existed  in  that  quarter,  had  got  back  all  his 
private  papers. 


DESTBUCTIOM   OF  PAPEBS  BT  SIB  P.   VRAMCIS.  lx» 

The  iutelligence  I  received  of  this  transaction  I  relate  in 

(he  words  of  my  informant. 

"It  was  to  John  Galcraft,  the  son  of  the  armj  agent,  that  Sir  Philip 
Francis  applied  for  the  prirate  letters  which  he  had  writtoi  to  his  lather. 
He  was  most  solicitous  to  get  them,  and  diey  were  given  np  to  him  without 
perusal.  This  was  in  1787,  when  the  son  came  of  age." — Pnvate  Letitr, 
AprU  23, 1850. 

Upon  mentioning  the  information  to  Mr.  Francis,   the 

grandson  of  Sir  Philip,  and  present  possessor  of  his  MSS., 

fee  replied, — 

"  I  believe  you  have  been  quite  correctly  informed  as  to  the  restoration  of 
papers  by  Mr.  Calcraft*s  heirs.  A  remarkable  expression  used  by  Sir  Philip 
Francis  to  a  Lady  of  that  family  has  led  me  to  believe  also  that  Mr.  Calcraft 
•VRS  not  only  in  the  iecret  afterwards,  but  a  purveyor  of  information  at  the 
^me,*"— Private  Letter,  April  26,  1850. 

Further  exposition,  I  imagine,  the  reader  will  not  desire  on 
the  subject.  I  shall  only  add  that  the  anxiety  of  Sir  P. 
Francis  to  get  back  his  papers,  in  1787,  had  a  natural  and 
obvious  motiye.  He  had  become  a  member  of  parliament, 
and  was  in  the  midst  of  his  great  struggle  with  Warren 
Hastings.  The  impeachment  of  the  ex- Governor- General  was 
hotly  in  progress ;  and  had  it  been  discovered  by  the  parti- 
sans of  Hastings  that  his  chief  accuser  had  been  Junius, 
it  would  have  been  advantageous  to  the  defence,  and  a  draw- 
back to  Sir  P  Francis  in  two  ways :  first,  by  lessening,  in  the 
estimation  of  some,  the  trustworthiness  of  the  charges  urged 
by  Francis  against  Hastings ;  and  next,  it  would  have  tended 
to  alienate  from  Francis  many  political  friends  with  whom 
he  was  then  in  close  cooperation  to  bring  to  justice  the 
alleged  Indian  delinquent,  whom  in  past  times,  as  Junius,  he 
had  depicted  in  aggravating  colours. 

It  is  probable  that  Sir  P.  Francis,  after  getting  possession 
of  the  Calcraft  papers,  destroyed  them,  as  no  trace  of  them 
can  be  found  in  the  possession  of  his  descendants.  I  may 
farther  add  that  the  late  Mrs.  Godishall  Johnson,  the  last 
surviving  daughter  of  Sir  Philip,  used  to  say  that  **  not  only 
did  she  believe  that  Calcraft  was  in  the  secret,  but  also  that 
his  daughter  was  aware  he  had  been  so." 


V.  RECENT  AND  CONCLUSIVE  TESTIMONY 

It  leldom  happens  that  absolute  certainty  can  be  obtained  in  human  afifairs : 
I      tterefoie  reason  and  public  utility  require  that  mankind,  in  forming  theii 


IXX  THE  HI8T0BY   AND  DIBOOVERT   OF  JUNIUS. 

opinions  on  the  truth  of  fiicts,  should  be  regulated  by  the  superior  number  oi 
probabilities  on  one  side  or  the  other. — Lord  Mabsfield. 

The  laws  of  physical  nature,  depending  on  elements  that 
change  not,  admit  of  no  variety  of  results.  We  can  no  more 
believe  the  contrary  respecting  them  than  we  can  believe  the 
converse  of  a  mathematical  truth :  that  a  right  line,  for  in- 
stance, is  not  the  shortest  distance  between  two  points;  or 
that  the  whole  is  not  equal  to  all  its  parts  collectively.  Upon 
facts  of  this  description  there  cannot  exist  any  diversity  of 
opinion,  because  there  cannot  be  any  diversity  of  experience. 

But  in  moral  questions  the  case  is  altered.  These  not 
being  subject  to  any  immutable  relations,  there  cannot  be  uni- 
form convictions  respecting  them.  Conclusions  will  not  only 
be  different,  from  this  cause,  but  also  from  differences  in  the 
perceptive  powers.  No  two  men  can  be  found  who  see,  feel, 
or  observe,  exactly  alike,  any  more  than  they  exactly  coincide 
in  features  and  expression.  Men  not  only  differ  from  each 
other,  but  the  same  individual  is  constantly  liable  to  differ 
from  himself  under  different  influences.  Hence,  in  inquiries 
pertaining  to  human  conduct,  we  can  rarely  or  never  hope  to 
reach  absolute  certainty,  but  must  be  governed,  as  Lord  Mans- 
field says,  by  the  "  superior  number  of  probabilities  on  one 
side  or  the  other."  "  There  are,"  as  another  learned  judge 
has  declared,  "  doubts,  more  or  less,  involved  in  every  human 
transaction."* 

The  most  direct  and  satisfactory  portion  of  human  testimony 
is  that  which  a  person  gives  of  facts  of  which  he  has  been  per- 
sonally cognizant,  and  has  been  the  impartial  observer.  If  he 
testify  to  his  own  actions,  he  is  generally  a  still  more  competent 
witness,  supposing  the  issue  to  be  wholly  indifferent  to  him ; 
for  he  must  be  better  acquainted  with  what  he  does  himself 
than  what  he  only  observes  in  another.  But  the  value  of  per- 
sonal confession  in  regard  to  a  man's  own  conduct  is  often 
overrated.  It  is  in  truth  only  circumstantial  evidence,  and 
may  or  may  not  be  deemed  credible,  according  to  circum- 
stances ;  its  validity  depending  on  the  disinterestedness  or 
credibility  of  the  confessor,  his  powers  of  observation,  his  sanity 
of  mind,  and  other  conditions,  open  to  proof  or  refutation  like 
any  other  circumstantial  detail.  If  a  person  confesses  to  an 
act  that  inculpates  himself,  which  the  law  does  not  require 
bim  to  do,  it  seemb  fair  to  take  him  at  his  word ;  but  even 

*  Obief  Justice  Pollock.   Tri»lof  theMaimingi.   ^S^iectotor,  Oct.  27, 184^. 


VALUE  OF   CONFESSIONAL   TESl-IMONY,  Ixxi 

this  18  not  always  to  be  relied  upon ;  for  examples  are  numeroui 
of  persons,  under  some  delusive  impulse  or  motive,  accusing 
themselves  of  crimes  they  have  not  committed.  On  the  other 
hand,  if  a  man  testify  in  his  own  favour,  it  is  proverbially  said 
to  be  no  recommendation,  and  without  corroborative  proof  has 
little  or  no  weight  in  a  judicial  trial. 

Applying  these  distinctions  to  Junius,  especially  the  remarks 
I  have  made  on  the  value  of  confessional  testimony,  I  will  . 
observe  that,  had  Sir  Philip  Francis  avowed  the  authorship  ot 
the  letters,  it  would  not  have  closed  the  controversy,  nor 
greatly  confirmed  the  conviction  previously  existing.  Suppose 
he  had  declared  "  I  am  Junius ;  here  are  the  original  letters 
I  addressed  to  the  Public  Advertiser,  and  which  Mr.  Woodfall 
returned  to  me ;  and  here  are  the  identical  volumes,  bound  in 
vellum,  that,  according  to  my  directions,  I  received  from  him." 
Would  this  confession  have  satisfied  everybody?  Certainly 
not.  Might  it  not  have  been  said,  and  .with  show  of  reason 
too,  **  His  own  confession  of  the  authorship  is  not  enough,  nor 
even  his  proofs.  He  denied  it  before,  and  now  be  avows  it. 
Which  are  we  to  believe?  Perhaps  Sir  Philip,  like  Hugh 
Boyd,  General  Lee,  and  ojiher  pretenders,  only  seeks  an  un- 
earned honour.  As  to  his  documents,  they  may  be  fabricated^  / 
Remember  Shakspeare  Ireland ! "  Doubtless  a  man  so  saga-/ 
cious  as  Sir  P.  Francis  foresaw  this  dilemma.  He  saw  thati 
an  avowal  would  settle  nothing,  would  tend  little  to  strengthen^ 
the  belief  already  entertained,  and  might  expose  him  to  great 
inconveniences.  Wisely,  then,  did  he  act  in  screening  himself 
from  direct  challenge  by  evasive  denials,  and  yet  respecting 
the  truth  (which  he  always  said  would  be  discovered)  by  ab- 
staining from  a  positive  abnegation  of  the  authorship.  In 
addition  to  these  prudential  considerations,  it  will  be  shortly 
seen  that  he  was  bound  to  secrecy,  and  that,  as  a  man  of 
honour;  he  could  not  act  otherwise. 

It  is  to  evidence  of  this  circumstantial  nature  that  I  now 
solicit  attention,  and  which,  to  me,  seems  wholly  conclusive. 
If  a  man  8  secrets  are  entrusted  any.where,  it  will  most  likely 
be  to  the  wife  of  his  bosom  or  to  his  descendants.  I  will 
first,  therefore,  insert  some  extracts  from  the  remarkable 
letter  lately  addressed  by  Lady  Francis  to  Lord  Campbell, 
and  communicated  to  him,  as  his  Lordship  informed  me,  by 
*'  his  old  and  excellent  friend  the  late  Mr.  Edward  Dubois.*,' 
The  letter  was  written,  as  Lord  Campbell  states,  ''  by  the 


IxXli  THE   HISTORY  AND  DISCOVERY   OF   JUNIUS. 

amiable  aud  intelligent  widow  of  Sir  P.  Francis,  fcr  his  in* 
formation."    It  is  inserted  in  his  Lordship's  ''Lives  of  tha 

Lord  Chancellors,"  vol.  vi.  p.  344. 

•  •  •  •  • 

**  Though  his  manner  and  copvenation  on  that  mjaterloos  subject  were 
such  as  to  leave  me  not  a  shadow  of  doubt  on  the  &ct  of  his  being  the  author, 
telling  me  circumstances  that  none  but  Junius  could  know,  he  never  avowed 
himself  more  than  saying  he  knew  what  my  opinion  was,  and  never  conti-a- 
dieting  it.  Indeed  I  made  no  secret  of  it  to  him,  though  not  in  a  way  that 
called  for  any  declaration  either  way ;  but  I  am  certain  he  would  not  have 
allowed  me  to  continue  in  error,  if  it  had  been  one,  knowing  my  convictions. 
His  first  gift  after  our  marriage  was  an  edition  of  Junius,  which  he  bid  me  take 
to  my  room,  and  not  let  it  be  seen,  or  speak  on  the  subject ;  and  his  postha- 
^mous  present,  which  his  son  found  in  his  bureau,  was  Juniu*  IcUntifiedf  sealed 
up  and  directed  to  me.  Sir  Philip  never  did  anything  unadvisedly.  Edmund 
Burke  observed  of  him, '  He  does  nothing  without  a  reason ;  there  is  thought 
and  motive  in  all  he  does,  however  trifling.'  Tou  know  Burke  and  he  were 
inseparables  till  the  former  left  the  Whigs ;  but  their  mutual  regard,  I  be- 
lieve, always  continued.  Sir  Philip  told  me  that  Burke  wis  convinced  ht 
was  Jwnius  ;  yet,  before  he  was  himself  suspected,  that  is,  before  the  '  Iden- 
tification' came  out,  some  people,  discussing  the  question  before  him,  aske«l 
him  if  he  thought  Burke  was  the  writer,  as  was  generally  believed  at  the 
time : — '  Futh,  very  likely,*  answered  Sir  Philip,  for  I  heard  him,  and  con- 
sidered it  an  ingenious  evasion,  like  his  answer  to  Sir  Richard  Philips,  which 
he  took  the  trouble  to  explain  to  me  was  no  denial,  and  said — '  Only  fools 
could  take  it  for  one.'  He  was  very  anxious  to  avoid  either  assent  or  denial, 
lest  he  might  implicate  truth  or  honour,  both  of  which  he.  was  veryjealous  of 
conmiitting.  He  affironted  poor  Sam.  Kogers,  whom  he  liked  much,  to  avoid 
an  ensnaring  question.  On  the  '  Identified'  appearing  he  withdrew  his  name 
from  Brooke's,  when  almost  the  fiither  of  the  club,  and  petted  and  privileged 
by  all.  They  entreated  him  not  to  desert  them,  and  several  wrote  to  b^ 
my  intercession ;  but  all  in  vain  :  he  retired,  and  made  no  sign.  On  consi- 
deration, I  found  the  cause.  A  club  is  neutral  ground  ;  it  was  not  like  the 
Select  Society,  and  protection  of  his  own  or  his  friends'  houses,  and  he  might 
have  been  liable  to  meet  with  indiscreet  or  embarrassing  questions. 

•  •  *  •  • 

"  But  you  will  say,  '  Why  ajl  this  fear  of  discovery  so  many  years  aftei^ 
when  the  passions  he  excited,  and  the  hearts  they  inflamed,  had  long  been  cold 
in  the  grave?'  I  will  tell  you,  in  a^iswer,  what  I  collected  from  what  he  allowed 
me  to  discover, — for  so  long  as  I  asked  no  questions  he  would  give  me  much 
curious  information,  as  of  a  third  person, — from  which  I  select  the  following 
for  Lord  Campbell's  satisfaction  or  amusement,  pre&cing,  that  my  inferencei 
were  known  and  uncontradicted  by  Sir  Philip.  You  know  that  he  and 
Philip  Bosenhagen  were  declared  by  Dr.  Thicknesse,  the  master  of  St. 
PauI's  School,  to  be  the  cleverest  boys  he  ever  educated.  At  twelve  and 
thirteen  years  old  he  used  to  associate  with  men  at  a  table  d^hoU  at  Slaugh- 
ter s  Coffeehouse,  when  his  father  dined  with  the  great.  At  serenteen  he 
was  Latin  secretary  to  Lord  Chatham ;  then  to  an  embassy ;  then  to  Gbnersl 
Bligh ;  then  clerk  in  the  War  Office,  where  he  thought  himself  ill-treated. 
He  waf  at  the  Conrt  of  Fnmce  in  Lonia  the  FifiMnth'i  time,  wheu  thi 


LETTER   OF  ULDY   FRANC  ifi   10   LORD   CAMPBELL.       Ixxiii 

/«»«it«  vrere  driven  away  for  ofFendicg  Madaaie  Pompadout.     Yet  peop]« 
■ay,  at  twenty-nine  years  old  to  thirty-tn  o  he  was  too  young,  and  could  not 
hare  gained  the  loft}'  tone  to  be  the  writer  of  these  Letters,  wnich  bear  all 
the  stamp  of  what  he  must  have  been  at  that  age,  or  even  youngvr.     But 
the  fire  and  energy  of  youth  lasted  in  him  even  when  mature  in  experience 
and  knowledge ;  and  this  union  of  youth  and  age  not  tempered  by  each 
other,  but  both  in  their  extreme,  is  equally  characteristic  of  Francis  and 
Junius.     The  former  passed  his  first  years  with  his  grandfather,  the  Dean  of 
Leighlin,  John  Francis,  who  was  a  man  highly  considered  in  Ireland.  Philip 
was  an  only  and  idolized  son  ;  he  took  the  lead  of  his  competitors  at  school, 
gaining  the  gold  medal  there.     He  was  early  accustomed  to  the  lofty  lan- 
guage and  high  thoughts  of  Lord  Chatham,  who,  he  told  me,  always  treated 
him  with  consideration,  discerning,  no  doubt,  a  spirit  within  worthy  of  an 
^>pearance  greatly  in  his  favour.     Nor  were  the  discussions  his  patron  often 
carried  on  with  his  colleagues  thrown  away,  when  he  vras  present,  on  the 
young  secretaiy.     So  brought  forward  in  the  world,  besides  an  innate  lofii- 
oess  of  character,  and  a  touch  of  Hotspur  in  him  that  would  '  pluck  bright 
honour  from  the  pale-faced  moon,  or  dive  into  the  bosom  of  the  deep '  for  it ; 
when,  therefore,  he  felt  himself  treated  as  a  mere  clerk  in  office,  deprived  of 
the  promotion  he  expected,  and  even  neglected  by  Lord  Chatham,  he  wanted 
no  stronger  stimulus ;  but  well  aware  of  all  the  errors  of  government,  which 
he 'had  been  trying  to  reform  or  stigmatize  under  different  signatures  for 
some  time,  his  energy  was  roused,  and  vented  itself  in  the  first  Letter  of 
Jonins.     And  here  let  me  remark,  that  a  writer  who  fears  discovery  should 
not  write  too  much  under  one  signature.     He  becomes  at  length  an  indivi- 
dual,— a  character, — a  living  person ;  and  adds  so  much  to  the  danger  of 
detection,  that  nothing  but  presence  of  mind,  courage,  and  forethought  like 
Sir  Philip's,  could  piirry  it.     This  first  letter,  which  was  a  kind  ot  general 
attack  and  challenge,  was  intended,  and  succeeded,  in  bringing  out  a  cham- 
pion.    The  shield  was  struck,  and  the  combat  commenced!     Sir  W.  D. 
gallantly  wore  no  visor;  but  Junius  could  not  imitate  him  !     This  was  an 
advantage  to  him :    but  it  was  an  embarrassment  that  Sir  W.  knew  hii 
£ither  well,  and  himself  slightly.     This  made  him  wish  to  close  their  contro- 
versy; and  when  his  tilents  had  been  fiilly  apparent  in  the  castigation  the 
K.  B.  had  received,  a  new  and  powerful  ally  came  to  his  assutance.     Whe- 
ther he  knew  that  Junius  was  Francis  I  cannot  say,  nor  whether  he  did 
more  than  slightly  supply  some  fiicts  that  he  could  not  have  obtained  with- 
out such  aid :  that  some  of  the  letters  were  submitted  to  him  before  they 
appeared,  I  have  no  doubt.     Perhaps  I  have  no  right  to  mention  that  per- 
son's name ;  for  Sir  Philip  was  so  anxious  to  guard  it,  that  I  had  no  doubt 
he  had  given  his  honour  that  the  discovery  should  never  come  from  him ;  nor 
did  it ;  but  he  was  not  bouxtl  to  volunteer  an  untruth  if  another  found  it 
out.     When  Junius  says,  *  I  am  the  sole  depository  of  my  own  secret,  and 
it  thall  die  with  me,'  I  have  no  doubt  he  meant  something  that  was  like  his 
reply  to  Sir  Richard  Philips.     It  might  be  a  necessary  evasion.     Silence, 
sometimes,  is  consent     From  the  yeai;  1805  to  the  end  of  1818, 1  was  either 
in  constant  correspondence  with  Sir  P.,  or  was  his  wife.     Most  of  those 
beautiful  letters  were  destroyed,  as  he  would  have  hie  returned  at  the  end  ol 
each  year;  but  some  few  were  spared  at  my  earnest  request.     If  these  eief 
appear,  they  will  make  the  world  do  him  more  justice.   The  situation  he  had 
b  iadim,  given  by  €K)veroment,  of  eonrsc  iuf  olved  a  condition  that  he  ihoi J4 


IjOlW  the  history    and    disco VEBY   op   JUNIUS. 

never  be  jtnown.  The  King  certainly  told  General  Desaguliers — *  We  knoir 
who  Junius  is ;  he  will  write  no  more.'  .  I  believe  it  was  hoped  he  would  se« 
home  no  more :  two  out  of  the  three  colleagues  never  did,  and  his  return  wai 
all  but  a  miracle. 

«  *  •  *  * 

"  No  one  that  had  any  observation  could  be  a  member  of  Sir  Philip's 
fiimily  without  seeing  tha^  there  was  the  '  volto  sciolto,  pensieri  stretti/ 
in  perfection, — not  in  his  character,  but  produced  by  habit  and  neces- 
sity. Many  men  have  many  secrets,  but  they  are  by  nature  cautions, — 
sometimes  timid.  Sir  Philip  was  daring  and  open  on  every  other  subject ; 
but  if  the  slightest  thread  of  his  web  were  touched,  he  was  instantly  on 
^uard ;  not  to  me,  certainly ;  yet  )ie  even  kept  within  the  compact  that  must 
have  passed  between  the  roan  who,  he  says,  in  a  character  of  Fox,  was  the 
best-tempered  public  man  he  ever  knew.  Some  circumstances  he  i^ways  re- 
gretted. One  was  losing  the  hxae  of  being  known ;  and,  even  if  discovered, 
it  might  be  said  he  had  sold  his  power  of  guarding  the  liberties  and  rights  oi 

his  country. 

*  *  •  *  * 

"  I  mnst  do  Sir  P.  the  justice  to  believe  that  he  was  driven  into  the  mea- 
Fure  of  giving  up  the  character,  that  is,  the  name  of  Junius ;  but  though 
the  conditions  were  both  honourable  and  lucrative,  he  had  to  give  up  no 
principles  or  friends :  he  had  not  to  approve  the  men  and  measures  he  once 
denounced ;  the  most  honourable  of  all  offices  was  given  to  him. 

"  Had  Sir  P.  once  said  to  me,  '  I  am  not  the  writer  of  Junius's  Letters/  1 
should  have  given  up  the  belief  immediately.  He  would  no  more  have 
volunteered  a  falsehood  to  me  than  he  would  have  had  the  meanness  of  even 
leaving  me  in  doubt. 

«  *  •  *  • 

"  He  went  once  so  fiir  as  to  tell  me  that  the  truth  will  be  known  some 
time ;  and  you  remember  the  lines  which  I  believe  soothed  him  when  he 
felt  he  had  given  up  tiie  purest  of  ambitions." 

Lady  Francis,  in  this  interesting  communication,  forbore  tc 
inform  Lord  Campbell  who  the  '*new  end  powerful  ally"  was 
that  "  came  to  the  assistance  "  of  Junius  and  supplied  him  with 
infonnation.  In  subsequent  letters  to  me  her  Ladyship  has 
been  more  communicative,  and  I  find  that  the  "new  and 
powerful  ally  "  of  Junius  was  the  Earl  of  Chatham.  I  have 
the  same  information  from  the  grandson  of  Sir  P.  Francis,  to 
whose  obliging  attentions,  as  well  as  those  of  Lady  Francis,  I 
fael  greatly  indebted.  As  my  inquiries  of  them  were  made 
accompanied  with  the  intimation  that  information  was  sought 
publicly  to  elucidate  more  fully  the  mystery  of  Junius,  there 
cannot  be  any  impropriety  in  publishing  the  information  I 
r^Teiyed.  But  it  will  be  best,  in  the  first  place,  to  consider 
the  ipipcrt  of  the  letter  addressed  to  Lord  Campbell. 

It  appears  to  mo  almost  demonstrative,  and  to  render  furtbei 


EEYALATIONS    TO  LADY  FBAKCI6.  IxXV 

inqnirj  unnecessary.  Sir  P.  Francis  certainly  does  nowhere 
avow  himself  to  be  Junius ;  he  could  not  do  that,  because  he 
was  bound  to  secrecy ;  but  rea.  y  the  great  secret  seems  ready 
to  burst  from  his  bosom;  on  crery  side  it  tries  to  escape  ;  by 
every  form  of  expression— by  every  symbol,  save  words,  the 
mystery  appears  ready  to  be  revealed.  What  else  could  Sir 
Philip  intend — ^what  else  could  he  mean,  when  on  his  marriage 
he  presented  Lady  Francis  with  a  copy  of  Junius,  telling  her 
to  let  no  one  know  it,  but  that  she  had  become  affianced  to 
the  author  ?  But  this  was  not  enough ;  it  seemed  impossible 
for  Sir  Philip  to  die  contented  without  a  more  distinct  revela- 
tion. His  first  gift  might  be  construed  as  meant  to  win  the 
favour  of  his  young  bride,  but  no  such  construction  can  be  put 
on  the  second.  When  Lady  Francis  received  Junius  Identified^ 
Sir  Philip  had  ceased  to  live ;  love  and  hatred,  praise  and  blame, 
were  alike  indififereut  to  him.  No  doubt  he  would  fain  have 
been  more  explicit :  he  seems  indeed  to  have  struggled  with  the 
secret,  and  been  loth  to  leave  the  world  without  confession ;  but 
he  could  not  with  credit  to  himself  act  otherwise  than  he  did. 
Others  had  died — died  nobly,  without  treachery ;  and  should 
he — he  who  more  than  any  was  concerned  in  the  bond,  was 
most  interested  in  observing  it — should  he  alone  prove  traitor 
—traitor  to  those  who  had  dealt  so  honourably  by  him,  and 
who,  long  in  their  graves,  could  explain  or  defend  nothing  ? 
Impossible !  Honour  fettered  him  inviolably — closed  his  lips 
to  die  last — and  left  him  only  the  mute  but  expressive  symbol 
of  Junius  Identified,  to  say  that  he  was  the  Man. 

If,  after  resorting  to  this  token— if,  after  employing  so  many 
indirect  indications  to  impress  upon  Lady  Francis  the  belief 
that  he  was  Junius,  Sir  Philip  had  been  discovered  not  to  be 
the  writer,  he  would,  as  her  Ladyship  has  justly  intimated, 
have  been  the  basest  of  impostors.  He  would  also  have  been 
the  weakest ;  for  if  he  was  not  the  author,  how  could  he  tell 
how  soon  the  real  author  might  be  revealed  upon  unques- 
tionable testimony,  and  then  how  supremely  ridiculous  and 
contemptible  he  would  have  appeared  !  But  Sir  P.  Francis 
was  neither  base  nor  imbecile  ;  he  was  a  man  of  powerful  in- 
tellect, undoubted  integrity,  and  sr:jrnness  of  purpose,  as  his 
life  attested,  and  as  many  who  knew  him,  and  who  are  still 
living,  confirm. 

In  old  age,  and  near  his  death,  Sir  Philip  seems  to  tiavo 
become  anxious  that  th3  truth  shculd  be  known  ;  but  during 

/ 


Ixxvi 


THE  HISTORY    AND    DISCOVERT   OP  JUNIUS. 


the  active  period  of  his  existeDce,  he  was  most  vigilmit  to 
preserve  the  secret,  and  took  every  pi'ecaution  in  his  power  to 
pi^vent  its  discovery.  He  got  back  the  Calcraft  papers,  and, 
for  anything  that  can  be  discovered,  destroyed  them.  It  was 
the,  same  with  the  copies  of  his  public  letters  to  Woodfall — 
no  traces  of  them  remain.  Many  reasons  may  be  given  for  al) 
this  caution,  to  which  I  shall  advert  in  the  concluding  section, 
and  will  only  here  remark,  that,  despite  all  his  watchful  en- 
deavours, he  did  not  escape  the  usual  inconvenience  or  punish- 
ment of'  secret-keeping ;  for  retribution,  if  I  may  so  term  it, 
was  on  his  track.  He  then,  as  Lady  Francis  has  related,  re- 
tired from  the  world,  withdrew  his  name  from  Brookes  s,  and 
shrunk  from  the  public  scrutiny  to  which  he  foresaw  he  should 
be  hereafter  subjected. 


VI.  ARRANGEMENT  WITH  LORD  NORTH. 

Thebk  was  nothing  violent  in  the  death  of  Junius.  He 
lived  his  time,  fulfilled  his  mission,  and  expired.  Before  re- 
tiring froni  his  labours,  he  duly  executed  his  political  testa- 
ment ;  that  volume  of  Letters  which  he  collected,  revised,  and 
dedicated  to  the  English  nation,  with  a  fervid  exhortation  that 
they  would  cherish  its  precepts,  and,  for  the  sake  of  their 
children,  watch  over  those  glorious  maxims  of  constitutional 
freedom  which  in  his  last  bequest  to  them  he  had  sedulously 
inculcated.  **  When  kings  and  ministers,"  says  he,  "are  for- 
gotten, when  the  force  and  direction  of  personal  satire  are  no 
longer  understood,  and  when  measures  are  only  felt  in  their 
remotest  consequences,  this  book  will,  I  believe,  be  found  to 
contain  principles  worthy  to  be  transmitted  to  posterity."* 
It  is  this  legacy  which  constitutes  the  most  precious  portion  of 
the  writings  of  Junius  ;  the  rest  are  chiefly  preliminary,  elu- 
cidatory, or  extraneous,  without  distinct  recognition  by  him 
as  the  deliberate,  authentic,  and  finished  productions  of  the 
writer.  That  by  which  Junius  sought  to  live  in  grateful  re- 
membrance— tx)  be  tried  as  a  man,  an  author,  and  a  patriot — » 
is  the  edition  of  his  works  corrected  by  himself,  and  which 
forms  the  first  volume  of  the  present  republication. 

^he  last  public  act  of  Junius  was  his  letter  to  Chief  Justioo 
Mansfield,  January  21,  1772;  his  subsequent  letters,  andeit 

*  Dediation.  vol.  i  p.  67' 


POLITICAL  TESTAMEKT  OF  JUNIUS.  IxXvil 

iLa  signatures  of  Veteran,  Scotus,  and  Nemesis,  were  uncon- 
nected with  public  questions ;  they  were  on  private  affairs,  the 
ofispring  of  ofi&cial  pique  or  personal  resentment.  After  the 
letter  to  Lord  Mansfield,  the  public  never  again  heard  of 
Junius;  and  the  last  note  Woodfall  received  from  him,  after 
an  interval  of  nine  months,  dated  January  19, 1773,  concluded 
his  correspondence  \sith  the  printer. 

By  connecting  these  dates  with  the  contemporary  changes 
in  the  personal  relations  of  Sir  Philip  Francis,  the  silence  of 
Janius  becomes  perfectly  intelligible,  first,  from  the  failure  of 
his  sources  of  intelligence;  and,  secondly,  because  the  one 
great  object  of  the  Letters — the  replacement  of  Lord  Chatham 
at  the  head  of  the  Government — ^had  ceased  to  be  in  immediate 
prospect. 

The  year  1772  was  a  remarkable  one  to  Sir  P.  Francis,  in 
connection  with  Junius.  In  March  of  that  year  he  left  the 
War  Office ;  in  the  same  month  his  father  died ;  in  the  same 
year  Mr.  John  Calcraft  died;  in  1774,  Lord  Holland ;  in  1776, 
Lord  Temple ;  and  in  1778,  Lord  Chatham.  In  consequence 
of  Sir  Philip's  retirement  from  the  War  Office,  and  the  deaths 
of  Dr.  Francis  and  Mr.  Calcraft,  the  three  great  channels  of 
information,  by  which  he  could  alone  hope  to  sustain  the  in- 
terest of  the  Letters,  were  at  once  stopped ;  and  by  a  singular 
casualty,  within  six  years  after,  all  the  public  characters  who 
had  been  contributors  to,  or  interested  in  the  Letters,  had 
ceased  to  exist.  In  addition,  was  the  other  change  alluded 
to,  namely,  the  quiet,  unpretending,  but  growing  strength 
and  apparent  permanence  of  the  North  ministry. 

By  attention  to  the  dates  of  these  occurrences,  some  of 
the  principal  misrepresentations  in  the  history  of  Junius 
are  at  once  disposed  of.  First,  it  is  established  that  the 
discontinuance  of  the  Letters  had  nothing  to  do  with  the 
appointment  of  Sir  P.  Francis  to  India;  that  appointment 
not  being  received  till  June,  1773,  full  eighteen  months 
after  Junius  had  ceased  to  write.  Some  intimation  may  have 
been  conveyed  to  Lord  North  that  Junius  would  be  resumed, 
unless  the  author  was  provided  for ;  but  I  have  no  authority 
for  this  conjecture,  nor  do  I  believe  any  exists.  The  claims 
of  Francis  on  Government  were  independent  of  Junius 
thoQgh  it  is  not  improbable  that,  as  the  secret  of  his  author- 
ship had,  previously  to  his  appointment    been  made  known 


Ixxviii        THE  HISTORY   AND   DISCOVERY   OF  JUNIUS. 

both  to  the  King  and  his  Government,  it  may  have  had  some* 
thing  to  do  with  the  precise  mode  adopted  of  disposing  o 
him,  by  sending  him  to  the  greatest  possible  distance.  But 
the  office  was  not  given  as  purchase-money  for  the  cessation 
of  the  Letters :  they  had  not  only  ceased  long  before  Sir 
Philip's  appointment,  but  it  is  probable  that  the  new 
scheme  for  the  government  of  British  India  had  not  been 
thought  of  when  the  Letters  were  discontinued;  for  the 
Act  creating  three  new  councillors,  of  which  Sir  P.  Francis 
became  one,  was  passed  in  June,  1773,  and  the  last  letter 
published  was  in  January,  1772. 

In  his  Dedication,  Junius  says,  "  I  am  the  sole  depositary 
of  my  own  secret,  and  it  shall  perish  with  me."  It  appears 
highly  probable  that,  at  the  time,  these  words  were  written 
in  perfect  sincerity.  I  am  inclined  to  think  that,  till  then, 
Francis  was  the  sole  depositary  of  the  secret,  and  that,  from 
the  fictitious  chsiracter  he  had  maintained,  the  secret  means 
by  which  he  had  obtained  information,  and  the  known  hostility 
of  his  nearest  friends  to  the  political  sentiments  of  the  Let- 
ters, he  had  resolved  to  remain  unknown.  I  have  already 
Stated  (p.  lix.)  on  the  best  authority,  that  Dr.  Francis 
certainly  did  not  discover  his  son  to  be  Junius  till  after  the 
Letters  were  established  in  public  favour.  Whether  he  ever 
became  acquainted  with  the  fact,  and  when,  I  am  not  certain ; 
neither  do  I  know  when  Mr.  Calcraft  or  Lord  Temple  was  made 
privy  to  the  secret ;  or  when  Lord  Chatham  first  leanied  that 
his  former  Latin  secretary  was  Junius.  It  is  not  impossible 
that  all  the  parties  may  have  made  the  discovery  about  the  same 
period,  that  is,  about  1770,  or  earlier*,  and  all  of  them  after 
Junius  had  written  his  Dedication  ;  ior  Woodfall  began  to 
think  about  a  collective  edition  of  the  Letters  as  earlv  as 
August,  1769,  whenf  only  about  twenty  of  them  had  been 
published,  and  it  appears  that  the  complete  edition  of  the 
whole  was  out  and  on  sale  in  May,  1772  J. 

We  thus  see  how  beautifully,  by  simply  attending  to  dates, 
and  getting  hold  of  a  few  real  facts  of  the   case,  things 

*  The  late  Mr.  Dubois,  who  was  an  intimate  friend,  not  amannensis,  an 
aimetimes  stated,  of  Sir  P.  Francis,  states  in  a  letter  dated  Nov.  1,  1847, 
tiiac  Lord  Chatham  began  to  correspond  with  Junius  after  the  appearance  oi 
his  replies  to  Sir  William  Draper. 

t  Private  Letter,  No.  7,  p.  21.      $  Private  Letter,  Ko.  61,  p.  69. 


MISTAKE  OF  LOBD  CAMPBELL.  IxxiX 

neconcile  themselves ;  and  how  all  that  is  strange  and  uiiac- 
oountAble  disappears. 

An  anecdote  related  by  Sir  N.  Wraxall*  has  been  often  re- 
ferred to  by  writers,  to  show  that  George  III.  became  acquainted 
with  the  real  name  of  Junius  in  1 772.  Such  may  have  been  the 
case ;  Lord  Holland  may  have  confidentially  learnt  the  name  of 
Junius  from  Dr.  Francis,  and  communicated  it  to  the  King; 
or  the  anecdote  may  have  had  its  origin  in  the  gossip  of  Gar- 
rick,  and  the  information  he  had  collected  from  WoodfaJl,  and 
forwarded  to  Richmond,  that  Junius  would  write"  no  more. 
That  George  III.  wps  authentically  in  possession  of  the  secret 
soon  after  will  be  presently  shown,  and  that  the  King  knowing 
Francis  to  be  the  author  accounts  for  the  fact  that  he  was 
the  only  person,  with  the  exception  of  Mr.  Burke,  who  would 
speak  to  him  on  his  unexpected  return  from  India ;  his  Majesty 
being  among  the  few  who  were  aware  of  the  kind  of  subject 
that  had  re-appeared  in  his  dominions,  and  unwilling  perhaps 
to  afford  fuel  for  a  new  Junian  warfare. 

There  is  a  piece  of  apocryphal  intelligence  that  may  be 
properly  dealt  with  before  coming  to  the  real  character  of  Sir 
Philip  Francis's  Indian  appointment.  In  a  recent  work  of 
Lord  Campbell  we  find  the  following  remarks  respecting 
Junius : — 

**  At  last  '  the  great  boar  of  the  forest '  who  had  gored  the  King,  and 
almost  all  his  court,  and  seemed  to  he  more  formidable  than  any  *  blatant 
beast,'  was  conquered — not  by  the  spear  of  a  knight-errant,  but  by  a  iitUs 
provender  held  out  to  him,  and  he  was  sent  to  whet  his  tusks  in  a  foreign 
land. ' — Lives  of  the  Chief  Justices,  roL  ii.  p.  492. 

From  what  has  been  stated,  it  is  obvious  that  it  was  not  a 
"  little  provender"  that  tamed,  to  keep  up  his  Lordship's  bovine 
metaphor,  the  terrible  "  boar,"  since  Junius  had  retired  from 
the  field  long  previously,  because  the  pasture  was  bare,  and  no 
fodder  forthcoming  from  court  or  city,  Hayes  or  Ingress,  to 
keep  up  the  stamina  of. the  monster  that  had  unsparingly 
devoured  King  and  courtiers,  lawyers,  Scotchmen,  and  one  of 
the  greatest  of  chief  justices. 

*  The  following  is  the  account  of  Wraxall : — ''I  have  been  assured  that 
the  King,  riding  out  in  1772,  accompanied  by  G^eral  Deaaguliers,  said  to 
.  him  in  conversation,  '  We  ktiow  who  Junivs  is,  and  he  mil  vnrite  no  more.' 
The  Gener&l,  who  was  too  good  a  courtier  to  congratulate  on  such  a  piece  of 
intelligence,  contented  himself  with  bowing,  and  the  discourse  proceeded  no 
farther." — Memoirs,  vol.  i.  p.  455.  [The  son  of  Sir  Nathaniel  Wraxall, 
who  is  still  living,  lately  stated  to  the  publisher  of  the  present  volume  that 
his  £ither  felt  convinced  that  Sir  Philip  Francis  was  the  author  of  Juniis.] 


I 


I)KXX  THE  HISTORY  AND  DISCOVRKT  OF  JUKICTS 

I  shall  now  8»ate  what  appear  to  have  heen  the  preliminaries 
of  Sir  Philip  Francis's  appointment  to  the  Supreme  Coancil 
of  Calcutta.  About  January,  1773,  he  returned  from  his 
continental  tour,  with  very  little  to  return  to,  being  then  out 
of  office,  and  his  father,  after  tedious  illness,  on  the  verge  of 
dissolution.  In  this  state  of  affairs  Sir  Philip  was  not  likely 
to  be  indifferent  about  the  future,  and  many  ways  were  open 
to  him.  He  might  seek  the  friendly  offices  of  either  of  his 
former  patrons.  Lord  Holland  or  Lord  Chatham ;  or  he  might 
submit,  or  a  friend  might  submit,  a  temperate  representation 
to  Lord  Harrington,  setting  forth  the  injustice  he  had  suffered 
at  the  War  Office,  by  the  promotion  over  him  of  Mr.  Chamier. 
The  last  is  not  unlikely  to  have  been  the  course  adopted,  since 
it  agrees  with  what  Sir  Philip  Francis  always  stated  of  the 
influence  that  brought  him  under  the  favourable  notice  of 
Lord  North.  To  this  nobleman,  previously  to  his  Indian 
appointment,  he  was  unknown ;  but  Lord  Barrington,  who 
appears  to  have  been  of  an  easy,  placable  disposition,  may 
have  felt  that  he  owed  some  reparation  to  Sir  Philip,  and,  on 
hearing  of  his  unprovided  state,  may,  either  under  solicitation 
or  spontaneously,  have  interested  himself  in  his  favour.  Oi 
Lord  Chatham  may  have  interfered,  his  Lordship,  after  be 
coming  a  peer,  always  continuing  on  the  best  terms  with  the 
King*.  However  this  may  be,  it  will  be  seen  that  the  Ear. 
of  Chatham  was  one  of  the  contracting  parties  with  Francis, 
and  in  the  secret. 

And  after  all,  the  "  little  provender  "  bestowed  on  Francis  was 
not  pf  a  very  extraordinary  character.  He  deserved  it  fairly, 
apart  from  every  other  consideration,  for  his  personal  merits 
and  services.  He  was  a  man  of  first-rate  talents ;  had  filled 
many  previous  trusts,  and  must  have  been  able  to  command 
the  highest  testimonials  as  to  his  oriental  fitness.  What  won- 
der, then,  that  he  should  be  selected  for  this  "little  provender," 
especially  as,  according  to  the  editors  of  the  Chatham  Papers 
it  had  been  previously  offered  to,  and  declined  by  others  ?— 
for  Indian  nabobships,  it  must  be  remembered,  though  mostly 
lucrative,  had  not  expanded  into  the  safe  and  splendid  procon- 
sular appointments  of  a  later  period. 

One  important  fact  became  known  by  all  the  parties  to  the 
tFonsactiou.  It  was  on  this  occasion  that  Sir  Philip  Francis 
avowed  himself  to  be  the  author  of  Junius,  and  his  avowal  was 

•  Vide  Edinburgh  Review,  vol.  Ixx.  p.  6" 


ARBANGEMKNT  WITH  THE  MINISTEY.  IxXXl 

made  known  to  the  King  and  the  Government :  whether  to  the 
«7hole  of  the  ministry,  or  exclusively  to  his  Majesty  and  Lord 
North,  does  not  appear.  The  only  names  that  have  been 
mentioned  to  me  as  in  the  secret,  and  taking  part  in  th<> 
engagement  of  secrecy,  are  those  of  Lord  North  and  the  Earl 
of  Chatham.  This  statement  I  make  on  the  authority  of 
communications  from  Lady  Francis  and  other  survivors  of  the 
family  of  Sir  P.  Francis ;  and  I  feel  a  grateful  pride  in  being 
made  the  medium  of  communicating  to  the  public  the  pre- 
sent information.  No  feeling  can  be  wounded,  no  confi- 
dence betrayed,  no  principle  compromised,  by  this  discovery ; 
and  doubtless  the  excellent  sense  of  Lady  Francis  had  sug- 
gested that  the  time  had  arrived,  and  the  fit  opportunity,  on 
the  appearanc'e  of  a  new  edition  of  the  Letters,  for  terminating 
this  protracted  controversy. 

It  must  be  borne  in  mind,  that  when  Sir  Philip  Francis 
avowed  the  authorship  of  tlie  Letters  to  Lord  North,  he  was 
perfectly  free  to  do  so,  his  obligation  to  secrecy  commencing 
only  after  his  engagement  with  the  ministry.  Why  the  secret 
continued  so  long  may  be  explained  by  the  consideration,  that 
all  the  contracting  parties  had  an  obvious  interest  in  not  divulg- 
ing it.  Government  could  not  wish  it  to  be  known  that  they 
had  taken  into  their  service,  and  promoted  to  a  lucrative 
and  highly  responsible  employment,  a  writer  who  was  poli- 
tically opposed  to  them,  and  had  rendered  many  of  them, 
including  even  the  King  himself,  the  objects  of  bitter  satire 
and  merciless  inculpation.  Lord  Chatham,  as  the  confederate 
of  the  assailant,  secretly  aiding  him  with  infonnation,  waft 
under  the  strongest  inducements  to  secrecy.  Lastly,  Sir  Philip 
Francis,  from  natural  pride  and  repugnance,  as  well  as  regard 
to  future  personal  objects  and  repute,  must  have  been  ex- 
tremely loth  the  public  should  discover  that  the  great  Junius 
had  fallen,  had  deserted,  in  appearance  (for  it  was  only  in 
appearance),  the  cause  of  the  people  for  a  "  common  bribe," 
and  joined  the  r^^iUks  of  those  he  had  so  long  reviled  and  held 
np  as  the  most  dangerous  foes  of  the  constitution.  Such  con 
Btruction  of  his  conduct  would  have  been  unavoidable,  though 
unfounded.  Sir  Philip  gave  up  no  principle,  nor,  as  he  often 
said,  abandoned  any  friend ;  and,  in  truth,  his  history  attests 
that  there  never  was  a  more  incorruptible,  unflinching  public 
aervant.     These  merits  Lord  Brougham   unreservedly  cou* 


^ 


ixXXil  THE   UIST0B7   AND   DISCCTTEKT   OF  JUNIUS. 

cedes  to  him  *,  though  not  among  his  warmest  admirers.  From 
the  time  he  left  the  War  Office,  Sir  Philip,  as  he  once  told 
the  House  of  Commons,  had  never  received  a  shilling  of 
the  public  money,  though  many,  under  less  urgent  impor- 
tunities, personally,  and  from  family  ties,  had  taken  a 
**  little  provender." 

That  which  must  have  held  out  the  greatest  temptation  to 
unmask  was  the  fame  of  the  Letters,  which  augmented  with 
time.  Sir  Philip  knew,  for  Junius  has  said  so,  that  mystery  is 
a  source  of  the  sublime  of  authority,  and  sometimes  of  lite- 
rary reputation ;  but  the  desire  to  wear  a  living  crown  mjist, 
to  a  mind  like  his,  somewhat  vain,  and  passionately  fond  of 
fame,  have  been  overpowering.  Lady  Francis  says  he  was 
fully  sensible  of  the  renown  he  was  foregoing,  and  regretted  it, 
but  fii-mly  resisted  the  temptation.  Doubtless,  his  reasons,  on 
reflection,  and  he  did  nothing  without,  were  good  and  suffi- 
cient. Against  a  public  avowal  of  the  authorship  was  his 
contract  of  secrecy,  which  some  may  think  to  have  been  can- 
celled by  the  death  of  all  the  parties  to  it,  except  himself  and 
George  Til.,  who  was  mentally  defunct.  But  there  were  other 
and  perhaps  weightier  reasons.  The  Duke  of  Grafton,  whom 
Junius  from  political  motives,  for  personal  he  could  have  none, 
had  so  relentlessly  persecuted,  lived  almost  as  long  as  Sir 
Philip  Francis,  dying  only  in  1811,  leaving  a  large  family  of 
surviving  sons.  There  were  also  the  numerous  descendants  of 
the  Duke  of  Bedford,  whom  it  would  not  have  been  pleasant, 
if  safe,  daily  to  have  encountered,  liable  to  be  questioned  as 
Junius  (which  they  would  have  had  an  unquestionable  right  to 
do  in  case  of  open  avowal)  in  the  saloons  or  grounds  of  Hol- 
land House,  or  the  still  more  free  warren  of  a  club-room. 
Discovery  would  have  obviously  and  seriously  endangered  Sir 
Philip's  peace,  and  would  have  weakened,  if  it  had  not  de- 
stroyed, his  political  connection ;  and  that  at  a  time  when  he 
needed  all  the  strength  he  could  raise  to  fight  his  Indian 
battles,  first  against  Mr.  Hastings,  and  next  against  the  Mar 
quis  of  Wellesley.  This  is  not  all :  opinions  are  not  unanimous 
as  to  the  fnorale  of  certain  Letters.  Junius  thought  himself 
justified  in  endeavouring  to  destroy  the  mischievous  influence 
of  public  misdoers  by  damaging  their  private  characters ;  but 
all  are  not  agreed  as  to  the  integrity  of  this  mode  of  political 
warfare     The  sentiments  of  the  present  Chief  Justice  of 

*  Lives  of  British  Statesmeiu 


MOTIVES  OF  CONCEALMENT. 8T0WE    MSS.  IXXXIU 

Bogland  may  be  collected  from  his  "  Life,  of  Lord  Chancellor 
tioughborough,"  in  which  Lord  Campbell  intimates  that  the 
literary  fame  of  Junius  would  be  dearly  purchased  by  the  in- 
famy of  his  libels.  And  this  sentiment  is  by  no  means  peculiar 
to  his  Lordship;  the  question  was  lately  put  by  the  editor  to  a 
distinguished  leader  of  the  Whig  party,  as  to  the  probable 
effect,  according  to  his  recollection,  as  a  contemporary  of  the 
writer,  that  an  avowal  of  tne  Letters  would  have  had  on  the 
political  connections  of  Sir  Philip,  and  he  emphatically  de- 
clared "that  it  would  have  entirely  ruined  him  in  their  esti- 
mation. Junius  foresaw  this  consequence,  and  has  met  it  in 
his  own  forcible  and  explicit  way  in  what  he  says  on  **  mea- 
sures, not  men,"  denouncing  it  as  the  common  cant  of  affected 
moderation*.  The  equitable  principle  appears  to  be,  that 
private  character  ought  to  be  held  sacred  till  publicly  ob- 
truded ;  bat  if  made  a  claim  for  public  trust,  or  used  as  a 
Bet-off  against  public  misdeeds,  then  private  history  and  cha- 
racter challenge  scrutiny,  and,  if  need  be,  censure. 

Notwithstanding  the  fidelity  of  all  the  parties  to  the  pledge 
of  secrecy  of  1773,  and  the  vigilance  of  Sir  Philip  Francis  in 
destroying  evidence,  the  secret  to  a  certain  extent  oozed  out. 
Throughout  the  latter  part  of  the  reign  of  George  II L  it  was 
commonly  reported  that  the  King,  Lord  North,  and  the  late 
Lord  Grenville,  had  been  made  acquainted  with  the  writer ; 
but  the  name  of  the  author  was  never  mentioned  by  any 
one,  nor  suspected,  till  after  the  publication  of  the  Woodfall 
edidou  of  1812.  Lord  Sidmouth  informed  his  son-in-law 
on  Lord  Grenville's  death,  that  **  George  III.  and  Lord 
Grenville  had  both  separately  told  him,  that  they  knew 
who  was  the  author  of  Junius,  "f  ^ut  no  discovery  was  made 
on  the  death  of  Lord  Grenville;  at  least  none  has  been 
published.  The  "  mysterious  box  with  three  seals,"  lately  at 
Stowe,  has  been  rumoured  *'  to  contain  secrets  worth  knowing*' 
with  regard  to  Junius ;  but  I  can  state  on  authority,  that  the 
letters  at  Stowe  were  read  not  long  since,  and  that  they  do 
not  reveal  Junius.  Probably  they  are  of  similar  tenour  to 
those  addressed  to  Lord  Chatham  about  the  same  period,  con- 
sisting of  strictures  on  the  contemporaries  of  Junius ;  and  the 
secret  in  respect  to  them,  if  not  already  anticipated,  and  to 
which  a  factitious  importance  has  been  given  by  refusing  to 

"  Vide  Letter  No.  26,  vol.  i.  p.  224. 

^  Venoirs  of  ViBconnt  Sidmouth,  by  the  Dean  of  Carlisle,  vol.  iii.  p.  44flk 


Ixxxiv  THE   HISTOHY    IND   DISCOVEBT  OP  JUNTOS. 

give  any  infonnation  of  their  contents,  may  be  like  that  of  the 
iTeemasons,  and  lose  nmch  of  its  value  by  disclosure.  Lord 
Ashburton  has  recently  pup.h^ed  the  Stowe  MS3.,  but  these 
letters  are  sail  to  have  been  withheld. 


VIL  CONCLUSION,  WITH  CHARACTERISTIC 
TRAITS  OF  SIR  PHILIP  FRANCIS.   * 

I  INDULGE  the  hope  that  I  have  fulfilled  the  promises  I  hold 
out  at  the  commencement.  Junius  I  undertook  to  make 
known — to  explain  the  necessities  that  enforced  his  fictitious 
presentment  to  the  public — the  peculiarities  in  his  personal 
and  official  relations  that  prompted  his  enterprise,  and  enabled 
him  to  support  it  with  such  extraordinary  effect,  power,  and 
resources — the  circumstances  that  necessarily  closed  his  career 
of  authorship — the  events  of  his  subsequent  life  that  induced 
a  different  style  and  character  in  his  public  writings — and  the 
obligations  of  honour,  gratitude,  future  ease,  party,  and  social 
considerations,  that  afterwai'ds  bound  him  to  preserve  invio- 
late the  secrets  of  his  earlier  career. 

Beyond  these  revelations,  I  am  not  aware  that  anything 
inexplicable  pertains  to  the  subject.  The  mysterious  spirit 
that  had  eluded  every  grasp,  and  tortured  general  curiosity  for 
the  best  part  of  a  century,  has  been  fixed  in  the  corporeal  entity 
to  which  it  indubitably  belongs.  There  has  certainly  been  no 
avowal  in  words  ;  but  signs  have  been  bequeathed,  and  a  lan- 
guage that  one  whose  lips  were  sealed  could  alone  venture 
to  use  has  been  employed — a  language  which  cannot,  and  was 
not  meant  to  be  misunderstood.  A  confession  less  equivocal 
was  not  allowable,  consistently  with  past  pledges ;  and,  bad 
it  been  made,  would  hardly  have  contributed  to  the  weight  of 
circumstantial  evidence  already  adduced. 

Believing  that  the  great  politico-literary  mystery  of  the 
age  is  solved,  I  shall  merely  add  a  few  strictures  on 
the  character  of  the  singular  person  in  whom  it  originated. 
Sir  Philip  once  remarked  to  the  late  Mr.  Dubois,  that  he  had 
"spent  so  much  time  in  writing,  that  he  had  almost  forgotten 
the  art  of  speaking."  Notwithstanding  the  war  of  extermi- 
nation waged  by  nim  against  the  Junius  portion  of  his  MSS^ 


CHARACTER  OF  SIR   PEILIP  FRANCIS.  IXXXV 

thoGO  which  have  escaped  are  numerous  and  curious ;  among 
these  are  the  account  of  his  long  interview  with  the  Pope  at 
Rome,  and  the  letters  he  wrote  while  attached  to  the  British 
embassy  in  Portugal  *. 

Sir  Philip  Francis  was  a  man  of  antique  mould  ;  it  was  tho 
standard  of  his  age,  but  of  which  examples  are  becoming  rare 
under  the  influence  of  a  more  mild,  equitable,  and  peaceful 
form  of  civilization.  His  feelings,  principles,  and  aspirations 
were  all  of  the  old  Roman  cast.  Partly  he  inherited  them ; 
they  were  fostered  by  the  classic  example  of  his  learned  and 
accomplished  parent ;  but  they  found  a  congenial  soil  in  his  own 
temperament  and  vigorous  mental  organism.  From  what  he 
conceived  to  be  the  broad  abstract  right,  either  of  individuals 
or  communities,  he  never  swerved,  and  no  seduction  of  per-f 
Bonal  advantage  could  bend  him. 

This  absolute  inflexibility  was  exemplified  at  all  times,  in 
all  places,  and  in  all  his  private  relations,  whether  on  the 
banks  of  the  Thames  or  the  Ganges.  He  held  West  India 
property,  but  undeviatingly  advocated  African  freedom.  He 
steadily  and  to  the  last  opposed  the  war  with  France,  because 
he  believed  that  the  interference  of  the  old  European  govern 
ments  was  a  violation  of  the  rights  of  Frenchmen  to  choose 
their  own  rulers.  His  fatal  Indian  contests  had  a  like 
origin ;  they  were  a  pertinacious  battle  in  behalf  of  right 
and  justice  towards  the  native  princes,  imperil  as  they 
might  individual  gains  or  British  power.  Tbe  last  effort  of 
his  pen  f  was  a  forcible  appeal  against  the  compulsory  annexa- 
tion of  Norway  to  Sweden,  to  complete  the  arbitrary  territorial 
demaixrations  of  the  Holy  Alliance  of  despots.  And  the  last 
public  speech  he  delivered  was  in  his  seventy-seventh  year» 

*  His  Portuguese  letters  have  a  strong  resemblance  to  the  style  of  Junius, 
though  written  antecedently,  and  refute  the  notion  of  Jaques  and  Coventry, 
that  the  natural  style  of  Sir  Philip  was  alien  to  that  of  Junius.  Speculation 
WM  right,  however,  when  it  was  conjectured  that  Junius  must  be  an  Irishman 
from  his  Hibemicisms,  especially  his  phrase,  "  the  sophistries  of  a  collegian^** 
a  term  in  use  at  Dublin  for  gowntman,  not  at  Oxford  or  Cambridge. 
Heron,  too,  with  singular  tact,  unconsciously  threw  out  a  hint  applicable  to 
tbe  situation  of  Francis.  Criticizing  the  composition  of  Letter  37,  he  says, 
*'  Its  paragraphs  vem  to  have  been  thrown  out  upon  paper,  without  the  pre- 
conception of  any  regular  plan."  This  is  very  likely  to  have  been  the  mod«. 
in  which  Sir  Philip  worked  off  at  intervals  the  first  draft  of  many  of  his  Le^ 
ten  at  the  War  Office,  and  had  not  always  time  afterwards  for  polishing  and 
^t  connecting  their  detached  parts. 

t  Ifftter  to  Evl  Qrey.    Ridgwny,  1814. 


IXXX^  IHB   aiSTORY  AND   DISCOVERY   OF  JUNIUS 

JB^m  the  hustings  at  Brentford*,  when  he  energetically  de- 
nounced as  unnecessary  the  suspension  of  the  Habeas  Corpus 
Act,  and  the  other  Acts  about  to  be  passed,  against  the  free- 
dom of  public  meetings,  writing,  and  speaking.     ^ 

These  are  noble  traits,  which  adequately  till  up  any  outline 
that  fancy  may  have  depicted  of  the  Junius  of  old.  There 
are  other  coincidences  in  minor  matters,  not  undeserving  of 
notice.  Junius  was  obviously  of  a  free,  impulsive  nature, 
and  Francis  was  a  "  very  Hotspur."  To  mystify  Woodfall, 
and  avert  recognition  by  his  former  school  friend,  he  tells 
him  **I  never  am  angry  ;"t  but  the  fact  is,  Sir  Philip  was  apt 
to  be  so,  and  violently.  I  have  heard  a  lady  say  of  him  that 
when  excited,  his  eyes,  like  Homer  s  heroes,  emitted  sparks 
of  living  fire.  In  connection  with  temperament,  another  inci- 
dent forces  itself  on  notice.  In  his  Dedication,  Junius  says 
of  the  Letters,  "To  me  they  originally  owe  nothing  but  a 
healthy,  sanguine  constitution,"  a  characteristic  peculiarly 
that  of  Sir  P.  Francis.  His  personal  appearance  was  im* 
pressive.  He  had  large  lustrous  eyes,  oval  faCe,  lips  well 
formed  and  strongly  marked;  was  tall,  thin,  and  of  an 
elegant  figure :  altogether  the  facial  presentment  was  that  of 
an  impassioned  soul,  with  an  active,  acute,  energetic  intellect. 

From  what  has  been  related  to  me,  it  would  appear  that  Sir 
P.  Francises  musings  in  his  fine  library  of  Greek  and  Boman 
classics  (to  which  he  was  much  attached,  as  his  numerous 
marginal  annotations  testify  |),  must  have  been  seriously  dis- 

*  June  22, 1817,  at  a  meeting  of  Middle«etx  freeholders  to  petition  against 
the  Six  Acts. 

f  Private  Letter,  No.  47,  p.  61. 

X  The  following  note  is  furnished  me  by  the  publisher,  Hr.  Bohn  : — Sii 
Philip  Francis's  library  was  sold  by  auction  Feb.  3,  1888,  and  two  following 
days,  by  Mr.  R.  H.  Evans,  of  Pall  Mall.  It  comprised  859  articles,  includ- 
ing a  very  good  collection  of  Greek  and  Latin  classics,  an  extensive  series  of 
political  pamphlets  and  newspapers,  and  many  of  the  principal  works  in 
English  and  general  literature.  The  manuscripts  were  reserved  by  the 
fiunily,  Hnd  not  brought  to  the  hammer.  Many  of  the  books  were  anno> 
tated  in  the  margins  by  himself,  and  nearly  all  bore  evidence  of  having  beea 
read  or  used.  Among  the  lots  which  more  partic*ilarly  concern  the  preftent 
enquiry  were  several  different  editions  of  Junius's  Letters,  and  some  of  the 
printed  enquiries  as  to  their  authorship.  These  sold  for  rather  high  prices^ 
M  the  following  quotations  will  show : — 

"  416.  Junius's  Letters,  2  vols.,  with  some  MS.  Corrections  of  the  text, 
and  Notes  by  Sir  Philip  Francis.     In  ea(f;  1783.     12/.  ILc. 

Artnttran^ 

**  417.  Jpnius's  Letters,  with  Notes  by  Heron,  2  vols,  with  tome  MSb 


Bid   FEAB   OF   A   BISGOTEBY.  IxXXVU 

curbed  by  th)  movements  cf  the  author  of  Junius  [dendfied. 
The  first  fix  of  Mr.  Taylor  upon  Dr.  Francis  brought  him  close 
upon  the  real  author  of  Junius,  who  could  not  help  feeling 
appi-ehensive  that  the  mistake  of  ten  years  in  his  age  would 
in  uU  likelihood  be  detected.  In  consequence,  be  attempted 
a  diversion.  He  called  upon  Mr.  Taylor,  and  intimated 
his  surprise  at  the  wild-goose  chase  in  which  he  had 
learned  he  was  wasting  his  time:  said  that  so  many  yean 

Notes  and  Corrections  of  the  Text,  by  Sir  Ph.  Fr&ncis,  1804 
21.  2«.     Armstrong. 
"  418.  Junias's  Letters,  with  Notes  by  Woodfall,  3  vols.     A  presentaiwn 

copy  from  Woodfallf  1814.     11.  2^.     Scott, 
"419.  Junius  Identified  with  a  Distinguished  Living  Character,  and  the 
Supplement,  with  Facsimiles  and  Autograph  Letter  of  Sir  Philip 
Francis,  1816  17.     4^.     Armstrong, 
"  420.  Junius.     Discovery  of  the  Author  of  Junius  (viz  Dr.  and  Sir  Ph. 
Francis),  1813.     The  Pamphleteer,  No.  54,  contsiining  Barker's 
Bemarks  on  Sir  P.  Francis's  Claims,  1827.     Edinburgh  Review, 
No.  57,  containing  the  Review  of  Junius's  Letters,  with  some  MS. 
Corrections  by  Sir  P.  Francis.     2/.  10«.     Armstrong. 
**  421.  Junius.     A  Collection  of  the  Letters  of  Atticus,  Lucius,  and  Ju- 
nius ;  wiih  MS,  Notes  and  Corrections,  and  Blanks  filled  up  by 
Sir  P,  Francis,  1769,  and  other,  Tnuts  in  t/te  Volume.     Bl.  5a. 

jirmstrong. 

"  422.  Junius.     A  Supplement  to  Junius  Identified ;  with  MS.  Notes  by 

Sir  Ph.  Francis,  1817.     Discovery  of  the  Author  of  Junius's  Le^ 

ters,  1813.     3^.  3*.     Armstrong." 

It  may  be  relevant  here  to  quote  the  following  article  :-^ 

"  Sir  Philip  Francis's  Speeches  and  Pamphlets,  collected  in  6  vols.  8to, 

with  numerous  MS,  Corrections  and  Notes,  Extracts  from  News- 

papers,  <kc,     14/.     Morton, 

"  51 5.  Dairy  mple's  Memoirs  of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland,  2  vols.  4to,  1771 . 

*^j*  See  a  most  curious  note  of  Sir  P.  Francis,  stating  that  the 

proof-sheets  of  this  work  were  submitted  for  revision  to  George  III, 

by  Lord  RoclKford,  "  I  know  the  fact,"  and  a  most  severe  note  on 

Johnson's  Character  and  Principles,     21,  12s.    Armstrong.*" 

These  and  most  of  the  other  annotated  books  were  bought,  under  the 

pseudonyme  of  Armstrong,  for  Mr.  H.  R.  Francis,  then  master  of  a  Grammar 

School  at  Kingston-upon-HuU,  in  whose  possession  they  still  are.     Lot  340, 

bought  in  the  name  of  Morton,  was  fur  Mr.  John  George  Francis,  who  then 

nodded  in  Gower  Street.   The  most  curious  illustration,  perhaps,  which  could 

be  collected  from  among  them,  was  a  letter  found  in  lot  419,  dated  BatB, 

Thursday  vuyrning,  Dec.  20,  1771,  addressed  to  his  wife,  announcing  his 

Ttrrival  at  Bath  "  last  night."     It  refers  to  the  very  feeble  and  helpless  con- 

dition  of  his  &ther,  who  had  summoned  the  writer  to  his  bedside.     As,  in 

Private  Letter  No.  47,   Sir  Philip  gives  peremptory  orders  that  Woodfall 

vliould  not  write  to  him  again  until  further  notice,  and  as  there  are  no  letteri 

ot  /uniiis  under  any  of  his  signaturet  between  Dec.  17  and  Jan.  6,  it  \i  u 

^  v^rroboxBtive. 


IxXXViii         THE  HISTORY  AND   DISCOVEBY  OF  JUNIUS. 

Lad  elapsed,  and  so  many  fruitless  attempts  had  been  made 
to  discover  Junius,  that  it  now  seemed  perfectly  hopeless 
to  expect  he  would  ever  be  found  out.  "  He  would  be 
a  lucky  person  indeed,"  continued  Sir  Philip,  •'  who  could 
find  out  Junius; — why,  it  would  make  a  man's  fortune!*' 
Finding  these  discounigements  had  failed  to  make  the  desired 
impression,  Sir  Philip  observed  at  parting,  "  If  you  do  per- 
sist in  your  purpose,  I  hope  you  will  present  me  with  a  copy 
of  your  book."  With  this  the  "tall  gentleman"  disap- 
peared,— ^as  he  had  done  forty  years  before,  after  throwing  a 
Junius  letter  into  Woodfall's  office  in  Ivy  Lane. 

Sir  Philip's  first  impression  of  greatness  seems  to  have 
been  derived  from  the  Earl  of  Chatham.  The  noble  eloquence 
of  the  Great  Statesman — his  pride — his  lofty  and  independent 
sentiments — his  respect  for  national  greatness  and  individual 
merit  in  every  station — ^his  contempt  for  trivial  things — his  dis- 
dain of  mere  party  objects — with  his  unstained  private  life — 
deeply  and  ineffaceably  impressed  Francis  with  a  sense  of 
human  excellence,  realizing  all  the  visions  he  had  cherished 
in  his  early  studies  of  the  ancient  models.  He  also  thought 
favourably  of  the  Great  Agitator  of  the  city,  on  accx)unt  of  his 
public  services.  Notwithstanding  the  private  profligacy  of 
Wilkes,  into  which  he  appears  to  have  been  hurried,  partly 
by  an  uncongenial  marriage,  partly  by  his  own  unruly  pasi- 
sions,  but  most  of  all,  by  his  hearty  contempt  of  hypocrisy, 
he  was  not  a  man  to  be  wholly  despised.  Like  Junius,  who 
cautions  Woodfall  to  be  on  his  guard  against  "  patriots,"  he 
had  no  sympathy  for  democratic  extremes,  but  he  had  a  well- 
grounded  respect  for  constitutional  freedom,  and  when  it 
was  menaced  by  court  judges  and  parasites  rendered  im 
portant  services  intrepidly.  It  was  the  timely  stand  which 
he  made  that  put  an  end  to  general  warrants,  and  his 
fearless  magisterial  conduct  that  mainly  contributed  to  pro- 
cure a  free  publication  of  the  parliamentary  debates*.  Junius 
acted  as  his  mentor,  and  the  letters  he  addressed  to  him  are 
as  valuable  as  any  in  the  collection,  replete  with  good  common- 
sense  advice,  as  well  as  with  sound  political  knowledge.  Tho 
active  prying  habits  of  Sir  Philip,  pending  the  Junius  letters, 

*  Wilkes,  too,  appears  to  have  bad  considerable  claims  to  scbolarsbip ;  he 
edited  Catullus  and  Theophrasti  Characteres,  upon  a  wager  that  he  would 
produce  them  without  s  single  typographical  error,  and  he  began  a  History 
of  Bngland  from  the  Bevolution  of  1688,  of  which  the  Introduction  (89  oageff 
printed  (as  a  prospectus)  in  4to.,  Alvjon,  1768. 


ALIEBCATIOM  WITH  LOUD  BBOUOHAlC.  Ixxxix 

makes  it  rery  probable  that  he  was  personally  acqnainted  with 
80  conspicuous  a  public  character  as  Wilkes,  and  this  would 
account  for  his  referring  the  Dedication  to  him  for  correction. 
It  is  certain  that  Francis  was  on  friendly  terms  with  Mr. 
Wilkes  after  his  return  from  India,  if  not  before,  and 
used  to  visit  him  at  Kensington;  and  at  this  latter  period 
there  is  good  reason  for  presuming  that  Wilkes  knew  Junius 
to  be  Francis. 

The  last  conclusion  is  rendered  probable  by  a  letter  ad- 
dressed to  the  late  Mr.  £.  H.  Barker  and  inserted  in  his  work 
on  Junius.  It  was  addressed  to  him  by  Mr.  Sergeant  Bough, 
from  Sergeants'  Inn,  and  is  dated  April  12, 1827.  Mr.  Rough 
had  married  a  natural  daughter  of  Wilkes,  and  in  his  letter 
remarks,  **  Mr.  Wilkes  used,  I  have  been  told,  to  say  that 
he  knew  who  the  author  of  Junius  was — that  it  was  not  Rosen- 
hagen;  but  he  never  said  it  was  not  Sir  P.  Francis.  The 
latter  used  to  dine  at  Kensington  frequently,  and  once  cut 
off  a  lock  of  Mrs.  Rough's  hair  (she  was  then  quite  a  girl). 
She  had  an  obscure  recollection  that  her  father  once  said  that . 
she  had  met  Junius." 

Home  Tooke  always  appeared  much  perturbed  when  the^ 
subject  of  Junius  was  introduced.  He  was  once  asked  if  he 
knew  the  author ;  on  the  question  being  put  he  immediately 
crossed  his  knife  and  fork  on  his  plate,  and,  assuming  a  stem 
look,  replied,  "  I  do."  After  this,  Mr.  Stephen  says,  "  his 
manner,  tone,  and  attitude  were  all  too  formidable  to  admit 
fo  any  further  interogatories."  * 

The  constancy  of  Sir  P.  Francis's  attachments  will  appear 
from  a  rencontre  he  had  with  Lord  Brougham  on  the  merits 
of  Mr.  Wilkes.  It  was  referred  to  some  years  since  in  the 
Edinburgh  Review f,  and  adduced,  as  it  had  been  before, 
as  affording  additional  proof  of  the  identity  of  Francis  and 
Junius.  I  lately  reminded  Lord  Brougham  of  this  adventure, 
and  his  Lordship  very  good  naturedly  gave  me  an  account  of 
the  affair.  **  It  happened,"  says  he,  "  at  Brookes's,  of  which 
I  was  a  member,  though  I  am  not  a  member  of  any  club  now. 
I  had  been  commenting  in  the  Hoiise  of  Commons  on  the 
profligacy  of  Wilkes's  character,  and  the  shame  hispopularity 
had  brought  on  the  people  of  England.  Mr.  Wilberforce 
complimented  me,  and  confirmed  my  statement.  Mr.  Canning 
then  took  the  opportunity  to  observe  that  Wilkes  was  by  nc 
*  ««oiBiii  of  John  Home  Tookc^  vol  ii.  p.  368.    1  No.  141,  October,  18SSI 


XC  THE  HISTORY  AND  DISCOVERY  OF  JUNIUS. 

means  a  singular  instance  of  ^a  demagogue  not  being  respect 
ftble,  and  added, —  *        / 

'  He 's  knight  o'  th'  shire,  aipd  represents  them  all/ 

Next  morning  I  was  at  the  club,  and  Sir  P.  Francis  was 
there,  aiid  had  been  reading  an  account  of  last  night's  debate. 
He  immediately  began  to  remonstrate  with  me,  in  company 
with  other  friends ;  observed  that  I  ought  to  have  said  nothing 
in  disparagement  of  Wilkes ;  he  was  fighting  the  public  battles 
against  the  Court,  and  ought  to  be  supported ;  it  was  the  policy 
of  the  Court  always  to  hx  upon  a  bad  man  to  run  down,  not 
a  good  one.  He  next  turned  upon  Lord  Mansfield ;  said  he 
was  a  corrupt  judge,  and  took  bribes.  I  expostulat,ed  with 
him,  remarking  that  such  detestable  practices  would  have 
been  discovered  and  the  chief  justice  impeached.  He  rejoined 
he  *  knew  it  to  be  true ;  he  took  bribes  in  the  Douglas  cause, 
and  he  could  prove  it.'  " — Here  the  sympathies  and  aversions 
of  Junius  are  reproduced  with  pristine  force  and  bitterness. 

Sir  Philip  was  impetuous,  and  somewhat  abrupt  in  manner. 
He  once  interrupted  George  IV.,  at  the  royal  table  (and  we 
are  credibly  informed  that  he  frequently  dined  there),  in  the 
.midst  of  a  tedious  story,  with  a  '*  Well,  SiVy  well!"  The  prime 
of  his  life  was  wasted  in  a  fruitless  effort  to  arrest  what  he 
thought  our  unscrupulous  career  in  India.  His  regrets  on 
this  account  are  painful  to  read.  *'  I  passed,"  said  he  in  the 
House  of  Commons,  **  six  years  in  perpetual  misery  and  con- 
test in  Bengal,  at  the  hazard  of  my  life ;  then  a  wretched 
voyage  of  ten  months,  and  two  and  twenty  years  of  labour 
in  the  same  cause,  unsupported  and  alone.  By  so  long  en- 
deavouring to  maintain  right  against  wrong,  I  have  sacrificed 
my  repose  and  forfeited  all  hope  of  personal  advantage."  It 
was  truly  the  martyrdom  of  a  life,  and  of  a  life  that,  with 
the  brilliant  gifts  of  Francis,  might  otherwise  have  been  dis- 
tinguished and  prosperous.  Who  could  help  regretting  the 
sacrifice  ?  Others  may  learn  prudence  from  his  failures,  but 
it  was  too  late  with  Sir  Philip.  Yet  the  cause  in  which  he 
fiEuled  was  a  noble  one. 

'*  In  man's  cause  I  drew 


Those  evils  on  my  bead — but  ills  like  these. 
My  mind  presaged  them  not."     * 


JUNIUS. 


PEIVATE    LETTEBS    OF    JUNIUS. 


LSTTBRS  TO  MR.  H.  S.  WOODFALL. 

No.  1. 
Sil,  April  20, 1769. 

I  AM  proparing  a  paper,  which  you  shall  have  on  or  before 
Satardaj  night.  Advertise  it  for  Monday*.  Junias  on 
Monday 

C. 

If  any  inquiry  is  made  about  these  papers,  I  shall  rely  on 
your  giving  me  a  hint. 


No.  at. 

SiBy  Friday,  May  5,  1769. 

It  is  essentially  necessary  that  the  inclosed  should  be  pub 
lished  to-morrow,  as  the  great  question  comes  on  on  Monday, 
and  Lord  Granby  is  already  staggered!. 

If  you  should  receive  an  answer  to  it,  you  will  oblige  mo 
much  by  not  publishing  it  till  after  Monday. 

*  Junius,  Letter  11,  vol.  L  p.  147. 

f  This  note  was  addressed  to  Mr.  Woodiall,  vrith  s  desire  that  it  should 
**  be  opened  by  himself  only." 

X  The  letter  forms  No.  55  of  the  Miscellaneous  Collection,  post,  and  the 
great  question  alluded  to  was  upon  the  Middlesex  petition  against  the  seating 
of  Colonel  Luttrell  for  that  county.  The  debate  took  place  on  Monday,  the 
8th  of  May,  in  the  House  of  Oommons,  and  continued  from  half-past  one 
o*clock  in  the  afiemoon  till  hall>past  four  the  next  morning,  when,  upon  a 
iivision,  there  appetied  for  the  petition  162,  against  it  221.    The  speaken 

fOL.  U.  B 


2  PBIVATE    LKTTi:ilS    OK   JUNID9 

on  Ihii  occasion,  in  fisi^'our  oi  the  oetitiun,  were  Mr.  Doxvdeswell,  Lord  i 
Cavendish,  Mr.  Wedderbume,   Mr.  Grenviile,    Mr.  Cornwall,    Mr.  Burke^ 
Mr.  Seymour,  and  Sir  George  Savile ;  those  against  it,  Mr.  Stanley,  Sir  Q, 
Osborne,  Dr.  Blackstone,  Mr.  W.  Ellis,  Mr.  Thurlow,  Mr.  C.  J.  Fox,  Mr. 
Moreton,  and  Sir  P.  Norton. 

In  consequence  jf  the  rejection  of  the  petition  to  the  House  of  Commons, 
the  following  was  soon  afterwards  presented  to  the  King,  which  we  insert, 
as  we  shall  also,  in  their  due  places,  those  of  London  and  Westminster,  upon 
similar  subjects,  with  a  view  of  giving  some  idea  of  the  general  politics  of 
the  day,  and  the  warmth  of  the  respective  controversies  that  distingiushed  it. 

''  TO  inB  kino's  most  excslleitf  majesty. 
*'  The  humble  petition  of  the  Freeholders  of  the  County  of  Middlesex. 

*'  Most  CrradoKs  Sovei-eii/u, 

**  We,  your  Majesty's  dutiful  and  loyal  subjects,  the  Freeholders  of  the 
County  of  Middlesex,  beg  leave,  with  all  affectionate  submission  and  humility, 
to  throw  ourselves  at  your  royal  feet,  and  humbly  to  implore  your  paternal 
attention  to  those  grievances  of  which  this  county  and  the  whole  nation 
complain,  and  those  fearful  apprehensions  with  which  the  whole  British 
Empire  is  most  justly  alarmed. 

"  With  great  grief  and  sorrow  we  have  long  beheld  the  endeavours  of 
certain  evil-minded  persons,  who  attempt  to  infuse  into  your  royal  mind 
notions  and  opinions  of  the  most  dangerous  and  pernicious  tendency,  and 
who  promote  and  counsel  such  measures  as  cannot  fail  to  destroy  that  har- 
mony and  confidence  which  should  ever  subsist  between  a  just  and  virtuous 
prince  and  a  free  and  loyal  people. 

"  For  this  disatFected  purpose  they  have  introduced  into  every  part  of  the 
administration  of  our  happy  legal  constitution  a  certain  unlimited  and  in- 
definite discretionary  power,  to  prevent  which  is  the  sole  aim  of  all  our 
laws,  and  was  the  sole  cause  of  aH  those  disturbances  and  revolutions  which 
formerly  distracted  this  unhappy  country;  for  our  ancestors,  by  their  own 
fatal  experience,  well  knew  that  in  a  state  where  discretion  begins,  law, 
:<iberty,  and  safety  end.  Under  the  pretence  of  this  discretion,  or,  as  it  was 
"ormerly,  and  has  been  lately,  called,  Law  of  state,  we  have  seen 

"  English  subjects,  and  even  a  member  of  the  British  Legislature,  arrested 
by  virtue  of  a  general  warrant  issued  by  a  secretary  of  state,  contmry  to  the 
aw  of  the  land. 

"  Their  houses  rifled  and  plundered,  their  papers  seized,  and  used  aa 
"idence  upon  trial. 

*'  Their  bodies  committed  to  close  imprisonment 

*'  The  Habeas  Corpus  eluded. 

*'  Trial  by  jury  discountenanced,  and  the  first  law  officer  of  the  crown 
lublicl^  insinuating  that  juries  are  not  to  be  trusted. 

**  Printers  punished  by  the  ministry  in  the  supreme  court  without  a  trial 
Ifv  their  equals,  without  any  trial  at  all. 

*'  The  jremedy  of  the  law  for  false  imprisonment  debarred  and  defeated. 

**  The  pUtintiff  and  his  attorney,  for  their  appeal  to  the  law  of  the  laad, 
punished  by  expenses  and  iinprisoiiment*  and  made,  by  forced  •ngageesentai 
to  desist  from  their  le^:i'.  clain». 


TO  MB.  H.  S.  WOODFALL.  3 

**  A  vriting  determined  to  be  a  libel  by  a  court  where  it  was  not  cognisa* 
Ue  in  the  first  instance ;  contrary  to  law.  because  all  appeal  is  thereby  ca« 
nfl^  and  inferior  courts  and  juries  influenced  by  such  predetermination. 

"  A  person  condemned  in  the  said  courts  as  the  author  of  the  supposed 
libel,  unheard,  without  defence  or  trial. 

**  Unjust  treatment  of  petitions,  by  selecting  only  such  parts  as  might  be 
wrested  to  criminate  the  petitioner,  and  refusing  to  hear  those  which  might 
procure  him  redress. 

"  The  thanks  of  one  branch  of  the  Legislature  proposed  by  a  minister  to 
be  given  to  an  acknowledged  offender  for  his  offence,  with  the  declared 
intention  of  screening  him  from  the  law. 

**  Attachments  wrested  from  their  original  intent  of  removing  obstructions 
to  the  proceedings  of  law,  to  punish  by  sentence  of  arbitrary  fine  and  irapri- 
aonment,  without  trial  or  appeal,  supposed  offences  committed  out  of  court. 

"  Perpetual  imprisonment  of  an  Englishman  without  trial,  conviction,  or 
sentence,  by  the  same  mode  of  attachment,  wherein  the  same  person  is  at 
once  piirty,  accuser,  judge,  and  jury. 

"  Instead  of  the  ancient  and  legal  civil  police,  the  military  introduced  at 
every  opportunity,  unnecessarily  and  unlawfiilly  patrolling  the  streets,  to  the 
alarm  and  terror  of  the  inhabitants. 

"  The  lives  of  many  of  your  Majesty's  innocent  subjects  destroyed  by 
military  execution.  > 

"  Such  military  execution  solemnly  adjudged  to  be  legal. 

'*  Murder  abetted,  encouraged,  and  rewarded. 

**  The  civil  magistracy  rendered  contemptible  by  the  appointment  of 
improper  and  incapable  persons. 

**  The  civil  magistrates  tampered  with  by  administration,  and  neglecting 
and  refusing  to  discharge  their  duty. 

"  Mobs  and  riots  hired  and  raised  by  the  ministry,  in  order  to  justify  and 
recommend  their  own  illegal  proceedings,  and'  to  prejudice  your  Majesty's 
mind  by  fiilse  insinuations  against  the  lo^-ahy  of  your  Majesty's  subjects. 

**  The  freedom  of  election  violated  by  corrupt  and  undue  influence,  by 
unpunished  violence  and  murder. 

''  The  just  verdicts  of  juries  and  the  opinion  of  the  judges  overruled  by 
false  representations  to  your  Majesty;  and  tlie  determinations  of  the  law  set 
aside,  by  new,  unprecedented,  and  dangerous  means ;  thereby  leaving  the 
guilty  without  restraint,  and  the  injured  without  redress,  and  the  lives  of 
your  Majesty's  subjects  at  the  mercy  of  every  ruffian  protected  by  admini- 
stration. 

"  Obsolete  and  vexations  claims  of  the  crown  set  on  foot  for  partial  and 
election  pturposes. 

**  Partial  attacks  on  the  liberty  of  the  press,  the  most  daring  and  per^ 
nicious  libels  against  the  constitution  and  against  the  liberty  of  the  subject 
being  allowed  to  pass  unnoticed,  whilst  the  slightest  libel  against  a  minister 
is  punished  with  the  utmost  rigour. 

"  Wicked  attempts  to  increase  and  establish  a  standing  army,  by  endea- 
vouring to  vest  in  the  crown  an  unlimited  power  over  the  miiiiia,  which, 
should  they  succeed,  must,  sooner  or  later,  subvert  the  constitution,  by 
angmenting  the  power  of  administration  in  proportion  to  their  delinquency. 

**  Bepsated  endeavours  to  diminish  the  importance  of  members  of  parlli^ 

R   2 


4  PRIYATE   LETTEES  OF  JUNIUS 

nent  mdiridually,  in  order  to  render  them  more  dependent  on  adminutration 
collectively,  ^ven  threats  having  been  employed  by  ministers  to  suppreu 
the  freedom  of  debate;  and  the  wrath  of  parliament  denounced  against 
measures  authorized  by  the  law  of  the  land. 

"  Resolutions  of  one  branch  of  the  legislature  set  up  as  the  law  of  the 
land,  being  a  direct  usurpation  of  the  rights  of  the  two  other  branches,  and 
therefore  a  manifest  infringement  of  the  constitution. 

"  Public  money  shamdPuUy  squandered  and  unaccounted  for,  and  all 
inquiry  into  the  cause  of  arrears  into  the  civil  list  preyented  by  the 
ministry. 

"  Inquiry  into  a  paymaster's  public  accounts  stopped  in  the  exchequer, 
though  the  sums  accounted  for  by  that  paymaster  amount  to  above  forty 
millions  sterling. 

**  Public  loans  perverted  to  private  ministerial  purposes. 

"  Prostitution  of  public  honours  and  rewards  to  men  who  can  neither 
plead  public  virtue  nor  services. 

''  Irreligion  and  immorality,  so  eminently  discountenanced  by  your 
Majesty's  royal  example,  encouraged  by  administration,  both  by  example 
and  precept. 

**  The  same  discretion  has  been  extended  by  the  same  evil  counsellors  to 
your  Majesty's  dominions  in  America,  and  has  produced  to  our  suffering 
fellow-subjects  in  that  part  of  the   world  grievances  and   apprehensions 
similar  to  those  which  we  complain  of  at  home. 
"  Most  Graciwu  Sovereign, 

**  Such  are  the  grievances  and  apprehensions  which  have  long  discontented 
and  disturbed  the  greatest  and  best  part  of  your  Majesty's  loyal  subjects^ 
Unwilling,  however,  to  interrupt  your  royal  repose,  though  ready  to  lay  down 
our  lives  and  fortunes  for  your  Majesty's  service,  and  for  the  constitution  as 
by  law  established,  we  have  waited  patiently,  expecting  a  constitutional 
remedy  by  tlie  means  of  our  own  representatives,  but  our  legal  and  free 
choice  having  been  repeatedly  rejected,  and  the  right  of  election  now  finally 
taken  from  ns  by  the  unprecedented  seating  of  a  candidate  who  was  never 
chosen  by  the  county,  and  who,  even  to  become  a  candidate,  was  obliged 
fraudulently  to  vacate  his  seat  in  parliament,  under  the  pretence  of  an 
insignificant  place,  invited  thereto  by  the  prior  declaration  of  a  minister,  that 
whoever  opposed  our  choice,  though  but  with  four  votes,  should  be  declared 
member  for  the  county.  We  see  ourselves,  by  this  last  act,  depiiyed  even  of 
the  franchises  of  Englishmen,  reduced  to  the  most  abject  state  of  slavery, 
and  left  without  hopes  or  means  of  redress  but  from  your  Majesty  or  Gh>d. 

"  Deign  then,  most  gracious  Sovereign,  to  Hsten  to  the  prayer  of  the  most 
faithful  of  your  Majesty's  subjects ;  and  to  banish  fix)m  your  royal  fiivour, 
trust,  and  confidence,  for  ever,  those  evil  and  pernicious  counsellors  who 
have  endeavoured  to  alienate  the  affection  of  your  Majesty's  most  sincere  and 
dutiful  subject^  and  whose  suggestions  tend  to  deprive  your  people  of  their 
dearest  and  most  essential  rights,  and  who  have  traitorously  dared  to  depart 
from  the  spirit  and  letter  of  those  laws  which  have  secured  the  crown  <A 
these  realms  to  the  H  }use  of  Brunswick,  in  which  we  make  our  most  earnest 
pnyers  to  Qod  that  i^  may  continue  untarnished  to  the  latest  posterity." 

Signed  by  1565  Freeholden. 


TO   MR   H.    S.   WOODFALL.  0 

No.  3 

Sim,  Saturday,  July  15, 1709. 

1  HATE  repeived  the  favour  of  your  note.  From  the  contents 
of  it,  I  imagine  you  may  have  something  to  communicate  to 
me.  If  that  be  the  case,  I  beg  you  will  be  particular ;  and 
also  that  you  will  tell  me  candidly  whether  you  know  or 
bospect  who  I  am.  Direct  a  letter  to  Mr.  William  Middleton*, 
to  be  left  at  the  bar  of  the  New  Exchange  Coffee  House,  on 
Monday,  as  early  as  you  think  proper. 

I  am,  Sir,  your  oiost  obedient,  and 

Most  humble  Servant, 

C. 


No.  4 

(Private.) 
Sib,  July  17, 1769. 

Mb.  Newberrt  having  thought  proper  to  reprint  my  Letters  +, 
I  wish  at  least  he  had  done  it  correctly.  You  will  oblige  me 
much  by  giving  him  the  following  hint  J  to-morrow.  The  in- 
closed §  when  you  think  proper. 

•'  Mr  Newberry,  having  thought  proper  to  reprint  Junius's 
Letters,  might  at  least  have  corrected  the  errata,  as  we  did 
constantly. 

Page      1,  line  18,  for  national        read  rational. 
8,  —     4,  —  was  —    were. 

5,  —  16,  —  indisputable  —    indispensable. 
Letter    7,  —     4,  —  in  all  mazes    —    in  all  the  mazes. 
16,  —  24,  —  rightest  —    brightest. 

48,  —     2,  —  indiscreet        —    indirect." 


*  "  Mr.  William  Middlelon's  letter  is  sent  as  desired."  Answer  to 
correspondents  in  the  Publie  Advertiser  of  July  20,  1769. 

f  Newberry  had  thought  proper  at  this  time  to  publish  a  spurious  and 
Rureptitioiis  edition  of  tl)e  first  fifteen  letters,  as  printed  in  the  author  s 
editioD,  under  the  title  of  The  Political  Coniestj  and  it  was  these 
vnanthorised  publications  that  gave  the  first  idea  of  publishing  s  genuine 
edition  of  the  whole. 

X  This  reauest  does  not  appear  to  have  been  complied  with,  as  the  follow- 
ing answer  to  correspondents  was  inserted  in  the  Pvhlie  Advertiser  of  the 
18th  of  July: — **  Reasons  why  the  hint  was  not  printed  are  sent  to  the  last- 
mentioned  Coffee  House  in  the  Strand,  from  whence  our  old  correspondent 
irill  be  pleased  to  send  for  them."  ' 

4  Jiiuios,  Letter  16. 


6  PRIVATE   LETTERS   OF  JUNICB 

I  did  not  expect  more  than  the  life  of  a  newspaper,  but  if 

this   man  will   keep  me  alive,  let  me  live  without  being 

offensive. 

Speciota  qwiero  pcLscere  Hgra, 


No.  5. 


Sib,  July  21,  1769,  Friday  Night. 

I  CAN  have  no  manner  of  objection  to  your  reprinting  the 
letters,  if  you  think  it  will  answer,  which  I  believe  it  might 
before  Newberry  appeared.  If  you  determine  to  do  it,  give 
me  a  hint,  and  I  will  send  you  more  errata  (indeed  they  are 
innumerable),  and  perhaps  a  preface.  I  really  doubt  whether 
I  shall  write  any  more  under  this  signature  *.  I  am  weary 
of  attacking  a  set  of  brutes,  whose  writings  are  too  dull 
to  furnish  me  even  with  the  materials  of  contention,  and 
whose  measures  are  too  gross  and  direct  to  be  the  subject  of 
argument,  or  to  require  illustration. 

That  Swinneyt  is  a  wretched  but  a  dangerous  fool.  He 
had  the  impudence  to  go  to  Lord  G.  Sackville,  whom  he  had 
never  spoken  to,  and  to  ask  him,  whether  or  no  he  was  the 
author  of  Junius — take  care  of  him. 

Whenever  you  have  anything  to  communicate  to  me,  let 
the  hint  be  thiis,  G  at  the  ustial  place,  and  so  direct  to  Mr. 
John  Fretly,  at  the  same  Coffee  House,  where  it  is  absolutely 
impossible  I  should  be  known. 

*  In  his  Dedication  (p.  87),  JuniuR  alleges  the  "  encnuragement  and 
applause"  of  the  people  to  haye  been  the  reason  the  leitera  were  con- 
tinued.— Ed. 

f  *'  A  correspondent  of  the  printer's,"  Dr.  Good  says,  but  this  does  not 
throw  much  light  on  the  subject,  and  it  may  be  doubted  whether  Jnnhu 
knew  a  great  deal  of  the  person  he  stigmatizes  so  outrageously.  But  the 
manifest  aim  of  Junius  was  to  impress  his  printer  with  the  belief  that  he 
knew  everything  and  everybody.  Who  Swinney  was,  however,  is  a  ques- 
tion that  has  been  often  asked,  and  seems  satisfactorily  answered  in  the 
following  extract,  cited  by  Barker  from  Dr.  Watt's  Btblioiheea  BriianfUea  : — 

"  Swinney,  Sidney,  D.D.,  P.R.  and  A.SS.  The  BatUe  qf  Mindm,  m 
Poem,  in  Three  Booh.  Lond.  4to,  10s.  A  Sermon.  Lond.  1769,  4to, 
1*." 

The  author  of  a  poem  on  the  Battle  oj  jUmden,  if  not  on  intimate  tetiuf 
with  Lord  George  Sackville,  wns  likely  "  enough  to  have  spoken  to  hilly* 
Mfpe«iaily  if  he  bad  Leeuj  as  has  been  sttited,  Lord  George's  chaplain.- -Ed. 


TO   MR.    H.    8.    WOOD  FALL.  7 

I  did  not  mean  the  Latin  to  be  printed. 

I  wish  Lord  Holland  may  acquit  himself  with  honour*.  If 
his  cause  be  good»  he  should  at  once  have  published  that 
account  to  which  he  refers  in  his  letter  to  the  may  or  f. 

Pray  tell  me  whether  George  Onslow  means  to  keep  his 
word  with  you,  about  prosecuting!.  Yes  or  No  will  besuflQ- 
cient.  Your  Lycai^us§  is  a  Mr.  Kent,  a  young  man  of  good 
parts  upon  town.     And  so  I  wish  you  a  fjood  night\\. 

Yours, 

C. 


A. 

The  "  wish  **  expressed  above,  that  "  Lord  Holland  may  acquit  himself 
with  honour,"  rbfers  to  a  charge  of  peculation  made  in  the  Oity  Petition 
presented  to  his  Majesty,  July  5,  1769,  of  which  the  following  is  a 
copy : — 

"  The  humhle  Petition  of  the  Livery  of  the  City  of  London  in  Common  Hall 
assembled. 

"  Most  Gfraciovs  Sovereign, 

"  We,  your  Majesty's  dutiful  and  loyal  subjects,  the  Livery  of  the  City  of 
London,  with  all  the  humility  which  is  due  from  free  subjects  to  their  lawful 
Sovereign,  but  with  all  the  anxiety  which  the  sense  of  the  present  oppres- 
sions, and  the  just  dread  of  future  mischiefs  produce  in  our  minds,  beg  leave 
to  lay  before  your  Majesty  some  of  those  intolerable  grievances  which  your 
people  have  suffered  from  the  evil  conduct  of  those  who  have  been  intrusted 
with  the  administration  of  your  Majesty's  government,  and  from  the  secret 
unremitting  influence  of  the  worst  of  counsellors. 

"  We  should  be  wanting  in  our  duty  to  your  Majesty,  as  well  as  to 


*  It  has  been  already  observed,  in  the  Preliminary  Essay,  that  Junius 
appears  to  have  uniformly  entertained  a  good  opinion  of,  or  at  least  a 
partiality  for,  Lord  Holland.  The  remark  is  not  new ;  it  was  noticed  long 
ago  by  several  of  his  opponents.  Thus,  in  a  letter  subscribed  by  our  author 
Anti-Fox,  and  inserted  in  the  Public  Advertiser  of  October  16,  1771,  he 
thus  speaks  of  him  :  **  I  know  nothing  ot  Junius ;  but  I  see  plainly  that  he 
has  designedly  spared  Lord  Holland  and  his  &mily."  [The  reason  of  Junius 
sparing  the  Pox  family  is  apparent  after  the  elucidation  given  of  the  author- 
ship of  the  Letters,  and  it  is  now  only  surprising  that  so  palpable  a  source  of 
identification  was  not  earlier  and  more  forcibly  dwelt  upon. — ^Bn.] 

f  See  note  A  at  the  end  of  this  letter. 

X  Bee  note  B,  relative  to  Mr.  Onslow,  at  the  conclusion  of  the  preceding  note. 

§  Lycurgus  was  a  frequent  writer  in  the  Public  Advertiser  during  the 
spring  and  summer  of  1769  ;  and  opposed  the  ministry,  but  with  less 
violence  than  most  of  his  contemporaries. 

I  See,  in  the  Editor's  remarks  on  the  authorship  of  Junius,  the  extract 
from  a  Letter  of  Sir  Philip  Fauids  to  his  children. — En. 


8  FBITATE   LETTKRS  OF  JUNIUS. 

nurselyes  and  our  posterity,  ■honld  we  forbear  to  represent  to  the  throne  thf 
desperate  attempts  which  ha^e  been  and  are  too  snocetifullj  made  to 
destroy  that  constitution  to  the  spirit  of  which  we  owe  the  relation  which 
■ubsists  between  your  Majesty  and  the  subjects  of  these  reahns,  and  to 
subvert  those  sacred  laws  which  our  ancestors  haye  sealed  with  their  blood. 

"  Tour  ministers,  from  corrupt  principles,  and  in  Tiolation  of  every  duty, 
have,  by  various  enumerated  means,  invaded  our  invaluable  and  unalienable 
right  of  trial  by  jury. 

"  They  have,  with  impunity,  issued  general  wanants,  and  violently  seised 
persons  and  private  papers. 

"  They  have  rendered  the  laws  non-effective  to  our  security,  by  evading 
the  Habeas  Corpus. 

"  They  have  caused  punishments,  and  even  perpetual  imprisonment,  to  be 
inflicted  without  trial,  conviction,  or  sentence. 

'*  They,  have  brought  into  disrepute  the  civil  magistracy,  by  the  appoint- 
ment of  persons  who  are,  in  many  respects,  unqualified  for  that  important 
trust,  and  have  tl^ereby  purposely  furnished  a  pretence  for  calling  in  the  aid 
of  a  military  power. 

**  They  avow,  and  endeavour  to  establish  a  nuudm,  absolutely  inconsistent 
with  our  constitution,  that  '  an  occasion  for  ^eetuaUy  employing  a  military 
force  always  presents  itself  when  the  civil  power  is  tnfied  fpUk  or  i'ntuUedi* 
and,  by  a  fiital  and  fiilse  application  of  this  mai^im,  they  have  wantonly  and 
wickedly  sacrificed  the  lives  of  many  of  your  Majesty's  innocent  subjects, 
and  have  prostituted  your  Miyesty's  sacred  name  and  authority  to  justify, 
applaud,  and  recommend,  their  own  illegal  and  bloody  actions. 

"  They  have  screened  more  than  one  murderer  from  punishment,  and  in 
its  place  have  unnaturally  substituted  reward. 

**  They  have  established  numberless  unconstitutional  regulations  and 
taxations  in  our  colonies.  They  have  caused  a  revenue  to  be  raised  in  some 
of  them  by  prerogative.  They  have  appointed  civil  law  judges  to  try  revenue 
causes,  and  to  be  paid  from  out  of  the  condemnation  money. 

**  After  having  insulted  and  defeated  the  law  on  different  occasions,  and 
by  different  contrivances,  both  at  home  and  abroad,  they  have  at  length 
completed  their  design,  by  violently  wresting  from  the  people  tht  last  sacred 
right  we  had  left,  the  right  of  election ;  by  the  unprecedented  seating  of  a 
candidate  notoriously  set  up  and  chosen  only  by  themselves.  They  have 
thereby  taken  from  your  subjects  all  hopes  of  parliamentary  redress,  and 
have  left  us  no  resource,  under  God,  but  in  your  Majesty. 

*'  All  this  they  have  been  able  to  effect  by  corruption,  by  a  scandalous 
misapplication  and  embezalement  of  the  public  treasure,  and  a  shameful  pro- 
stitution of  public  honouis  and  employments,  procuring  deficiencies  of  the 
civil  list  to  be  made  good  without  examination ;  and,  instead  qf  punitkin^, 
conferring  honours  on  a  paymaster,  the  public  defaulter  of  unaccount^ 
millions. 

"  From  an  unfeigned  sense  of  the  duty  we  owe  to  your  Majesty  and  to  our 
country  we  have  ventured  thus  humbly  to  lay  before  the  throne  these  great 
and  important  truths,  which  it  has  been  the  business  of  your  ministers  to 
conceal.  We  most  earnestly  beseech  your  Majesty  to  grant  us  redress.  It 
is  for  the  purpose  of  redress  alone,  and  for  such  occasions  as  the  present,  that 
those  great  and  extensive  powers  are  intrusted  to  the  crown,  by  the  wisdom 


LORD  HOtLAND'S  aI£.EOED   PECULATION.  9 

•f  that  constitation  which  your  Majesty's  Iliustrious  &mily  was  caosen  to 
defend,  and  which,  we  trust  in  God,  it  will  for  ever  continue  to  support" 

Lord  Holland,  suspecting  himself  to  be  implicated  in  the  last  paragraph  but 
one  of  the  above  petition,  addressed  the  following  letter  to  the  Lord  Mayor 
upon  this  subject : — 

to  thb  right  honovrable  thb  loud  xatok. 

•*Mt  Lord, 
"  Ih  a  petition  presented  by  your  Lordship  it  is  mentioned  as  a  grieTance, 
instead  of  punithing,  amfenring  honours  on  a  paymaster,  the  public  de- 
fau&er  <^  unaccoufUed  millions,  I  am  told  that  I  am  the  paymaster  here 
censured ;  may  I  beg  to  know  of  your  Lordship  if  it  is  so  )  If  it  is,  I  am 
sure  Mr.  Beckford  must  have  been  against  it,  because  he  knows  and  could 
have  shown  your  Lordship  in  writing  the  utter  fiilsehood  of  what  is  there 
insinoated. 

"  I  have  not  the  honour  to  know  your  Lordship*  so  I  cannot  tell  what 
yon  may  have  heard  to  induce  you  to  carry  to  our  Sovereign  a  complaint  of 
so  atrocious  a  nature. 

"Tour  Lordship,  by  your  speech  made  to  the  King  at  delivering  the 
petition,  hat  adopted  tiie  contents  of  it ;  and  I  do  not  know  of  whom  to 
inquire  but  of  your  Lordship  concerning  this  injury  done  to  an  innocent 
man,  who  is  by  this  means  (if  I  am  the  person  meant)  hung  out  as  an  object 
of  public  hatred  and  resentment. 

"  Tou  have  too  much  honour  and  justice  not  to  tell  me  whether  I  am  the 
person  meant,  and  if  I  am,  the  grounds  upon  which  I  am  thus  charged,  that 
I  may  vindicate  myself,  which  truth  will  enable  me  to  do  to  the  conviction  of 
the  bitterest  enemy,  and  therefore  I  may  boldly  say  to  your  Lordship's  entire 
ntis&ction,  whom  I  certainly  have  never  offended. 

**  I  am,  with  the  greatest  respect,  my  Lord, 
"  Tour  Lordship's  most  obedient  and  most  humble  Servant, 

"  Holland  House,  Kensington,  "  Holland." 

•'July  9, 1769." 

To  this  letter  the  Lord  Mayor  returned  the  following  answer  : — 

''The  Lord  Mayor  presents  his  compliments  to  Lord  Holland,  and  ia 
answer  to  the  honour  of  his  Lordship's  letter  delivered  to  him  by  Mr.  Selwyn, 
he  begs  leave  to  say  that  he  had  no  concern  in  drawing  up  the  petition  from 
the  Livery  of  London  to  his  Majesty ;  that  he  looks  on  himself  only  as  the 
carrier,  together  with  other  gentlemen  charged  by  the  Livery  with  the  delivery 
of  it;  that  he  does  not,  nor  ever  did,  hold  himself  accountable  for  the 
contents  of  it,  and  is  a  stranger  to  the  nature  of  the  supposed  charge  against 
his  Lordship. 

''Mansion  House,  July  10,  1769." 

Mr.  Beckford,  seeing  his  name  implicated  in  this  correspondence,  wrote 
from  the  country  the  following  letter  to  a  friend,  who  was  a  liveryman  of 
the  city. 

"  Dkax  Sir,  "  Ponthill,  July  16,  1769. 

"Iamm  much  surprised  as  you  seem  to  be,  at  seeing  my  name  and  papen 
in  my  possession  appealed  to  by  a  noble  Lord.  Tou  and  my  friends  in  the 
ci^  thmk  it  incumbent  on  me  to  vindicate  (as  they  are  pleased  to  express 


10  PKIVATE    LE'rTEr»S   OF  JUNI179. 

themMlTM)  my  honour  and  character,  which  is  called  in  qnestion.  The  only 
proper  aatigfiiction  in  ray  power  to  give  yon  and  my  other  firiendf  ii  to  relatw 
plain  mfttters  of  fact  to  the  best  of  my  reooUection. 

**  In  the  last  session  of  parliament,  on  a  question  of  revenue  (as  far  as  mj 
memory  serves),  I  did  declare  to  the  House  that  the  public  revenue  had  been 
squandered  away,  and  that  the  money  of  the  nation  had  not  been  regularij 
audited  and  accounted  for. 

''  That  in  the  department  of  the  pay-office  I  had  been  informed  there  were 
upwards  of  forty  millions  not  properly  accounted  for ;  that  the  officers  of  the 
king's  exchequer  were  bound  in  duty  to  see  justice  done  to  the  public;  that 
process  had  issued  out  of  the  Court  of  Exchequer,  and  that  all  proceedings 
for  a  certain  time  had  been  suspended  by  the  King's  sign  manual.  I  then 
did  declare  that  it  was  an  high  offence  for  any  minister  to  advise  the  King  to 
stop  the  course  of  public  justice  without  assigning  a  very  good  reason  for 
such  his  advice.  I  desised  the  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer  and  the  Lords  of 
the  Treasury,  who  sat  opposite  to  me,  to  set  me  right  if  my  information  was 
not  well  founded  ;  but  not  a  single  word  was  uttered  in  answer  by  any  of  the 
gentlemen  in  administration. 

"  After  some  days  had  elapsed  I  met  my  friend  Mr.  Woodhonse  in  West- 
minster Hall ;  he  told  me  I  had  been  misinformed  as  to  what  I  had  mentioned 
in  the  House  of  Commons,  and  that,  if  I  would  give  him  leave,  he  would 
send  me  a  paper  from  a  noble  Lord  which  would  convince  me  of  my  mistake. 
The  paper  alluded  to  is  in  London.;  I  therefore  cannot  speak  of  the  contents 
with  accuracy  and  precision,  but  this  I  recollect,  that  the  perusal  of  the  paper 
did  not  convince  me  that  all  I  had  heard  was  &lse.  It  was  a  private  paper, 
and  I  do  not  recollect  having  shown  it  to  more  than  a  single  person.  I  lutve 
no  doubt  Mr-  Woodhonse  has  a  copy  of  the  paper  by  him,  and  I  hope  he  will 
submit  the  contents  to  the  judgment  of  the  public  in  vindication  of  an  nnro- 
OENT  man. 

**  I  am,  dear  Sir, 
**  Tour  ever  &ithfril  and  affectionate  humble  Servant, 

"William  Beokford.'* 

In  was  in  consequence  of  this  letter  that  Lord  Holland  was  induced  to 
r>ublish  the  account  above  referred  to  by  Junius,  and  again  by  Mr.  Beckford. 
Long  as  it  is,  it  ought  not  to  be  omitted  in  this  place. 

VOS  THB  PUBLIC  ADTERTISBR. 

LeOw  to  H,  S.  Wood/all. 

"  Mb.  Woodfall,  "  Kingsgate,  July  20,  176D. 

''  Lord  Holland,  seeing  in  your  paper  a  letter  from  Mr.  Beckford  to  a 
liveryman,  of  July  15,  1769,  and  Mr.  Woodhonse  being  at  Spa,  in  Ger« 
many,  sends  you  an  authentic  copy  of  the  paper  which  he  sent  by  Mr.  Wood* 
house  to  Mr.  Beckford.  He  hopes  the  perusal  of  it  will  convince  the  re««d«.r 
that  all  is  false  that  can  impute  any  crime  to  Lord  Holland. 

"  The  reader  will  see  that  some  of  Lord  Holland's  accounts  were  then 
before  the  auditor,  and  there  are  two  years'  accounts  since  lodged  there. 

"  He  will  see  that  Lord  Holland's  accounts  (voluminous  and  difficult 
beyond  example)  have  not  been  kept  back  from  inclination,  but  uecessi^, 
and  not  longer  than  those  of  his  predecessors. 

**  He  will  see  (and  is  desired  to  observe  narticularly)  that  savings,  so  fai 


LORD, HOLLANDS    ALI.KGED    FECULATTOX.  11 

fipOM  remaming  all  in  Lord  Holland's  hands,  had  been  given  in  and  voted  in 
fiid  of  the  public  service  to  thearaount  of  £910,541.  And  £43,533  19^;.  7d. 
(upon  some  regimental  and  other  accounts  being  adjusted  this  l&dl  ^vinter) 
have  been  since  paid  and  voted. 

"  He  will  read  in  it  that  Lord  Holland  desired  to  be  shown  how  he  cmfld 
|»oceed  fester  than  he  did.  If  nobody  has  shown  or  can  sfiow  how  that 
might  have  been,  or  may  be  done,  does  he  deserve  either  pnnishmen^  or 
censure  )  And  hod  he  not  a  right  to  think  himself  sure  that  Mr.  Beckford 
must  hare  been  against  the  article  in  the  petition  relating  to  him,  because 
Mr.  Beeiford  knew,  and  could  have  shown  the  Lord  Mayor  in  writiT^,  the 
utter  falsehood  of  what  it  there  insinuatfdl 

**  Lord  Holland  prints  the  memorial  examined  by  the  Treasury,  and  the 
sign  manual  it  obt^ned ;  stopping  process  (not  accuuuts)  f  r  six  months, 
which  neither  did  nor  could  suspend  or  delay  the  paymaster's  accounts  an 
hour.  "  Holland.** 

OBSXBTATIONS  ON  THB  ACCOUNTS  OF  THB  PATMASTES-OXNEKAL. 

Why  were  Lord  ffollawTs  accounts,  as  jpayitioMer-general,  for  the  years 
1757, 1758,  and  1759,  not  delivered  to  the  audiUyrs  b^ore  ike  year  1768 1 

ANSWXB. 

The  pa3rmaster-general'8  officers,  being  best  acquainted  with  army  accounts, 
are  employed  in  making  up  the  account  of  the  preceding  paymasters.  The 
accounts  of  the  Earls  of  Chatham,  Darlington,  and  Einnonl,  and  Mr.  Potter, 
were  made  up  by  them,  and  regularly,  and  in  due  course,  delivered  to  the 
auditors. 

Great  as  the  army  and  its  expenses  were  during  the  last  war,  beyond  all 
former  example,  dispersed  in  all  quarters  of  the  world,  and  difficult  as  it 
must  have  been  to  keep  the  accounts  in  any  tolerable  order,  it  will  be  found 
upon  examination  that  the  accounts  of  Lord  Holland,  as  paymaster-general,  are 
not  further  back  than  those  of  his  predecessors,  and  that  his  Lordship  s  accounts 
are  not  kept  back,  as  has  been  suggested,  from  inclination,  but  necessity. 

The  late  Mr.  Winnington's  accounts,  for  two  years  and  a  half,  from 
December,  1743,  to  24th  of  June,  1746,  were  declared  the  15th  of  May, 
1760.  The  Earl  of  Chatham's  accounts  for  nine  years  and  a  half,  from  the 
25th  June,  1746,  to  the  24th  of  December,  1755.  are  not  yec  declared. 

The  accounts  of  the  Earls  of  Darlington  and  Einnoul  for  the  year  1756, 
and  Uie  Earl  of  Einnoul's  and  Mr.  Potter's  for  six  months,  to  the  24th  of 
June,  1767,  are  now  before  the  auditors. 

The  accounts  of  Lord  Holland  for  the  years  i757, 1758,  and  1759,  like- 
vrise  the  accounts  of  his  deputies  attending  the  army  in  Gennany  from  the 
cominencement  to  the  end  of  the  late  war,  are  also  before  the  auditors  for 
their  examination  ;  and  his  Lordships  account  for  the  year  1760,  is  almost 
ready  to  be  delivered  to  them. 

From  the  nature  and  extension  of  army  accounts,  it  is  most  evident  to  those 
that  are  best  acquainted  with  them,  that  it  is  tedious  and  difficult  to  brinu 
even  regimental  accounts  to  a  final  adjustment ;  other  parts  of  the  accounts  are 
more  so.  Lord  Holland,  in  the  CDurse  of  the  years  1759,  1760,  1761, 
1762, 1763,  and  1764,  has  paid  to  regiments  and  independent  companies 
€820,891  9s.  11<2.,  whose  accounts  are  at  this  time  unadjusted  for  want  oi 


13  PRIVATE  LETTERS   OF  JUMTOS 

proper  authorities,  and  till  those  autkorities  are  obtained  the  auditoi  will  not 
allow  one  shilling  of  said  sum  in  his  Lordship*s  accounts.  To  obtain  those 
authorities  his  Lordship  has  often  repeated  his  solicitations. 

What  is  the  halance  of  cash  in  Lord  Holland's  hands  t 

AHSWXS; 

The  meaning  of  this  question  can  be  no  other  than  what  sayings  *  are  in 
Lord  Holland's  hands  1  Or,  in  other  words,  how  much  has  the  expense  in 
any  case  fallen  short  of  the  sum  voted  ? 

As  to  the  savings :  so  &r  as  the  pay-office  has  been  enabled  to  state  the 
army  accounts,  they  have  been  given  into  parliament 

From  services  that  have  &lleu  short  of  the  sums  voted,  and  from  moneys 
paid  in  by  army  accomptants,  Lord  Holland  directed  accounts  to  be  made  up 
and  laid  before  the  House  of  Commons ;  and  accordingly  (out  of  theae 
savings  in  Lord  Holland's  hands)  parliament  from  time  to  time  availed  itself 
of  the  following  sums,  viz. : — 

£  s.  d. 
Voted  in  aid  of  extraordinaries,  to  December  24, 1763  .  239,966  1  4 
Voted  in  the  year  1764,  in  aid  of  German  claims  .  .  170,906  2  8 
Voted  in  the  year  1765,  in  aid  of  ditto  service  .  .  .  251,740  2  7 
Voted  in  the  year  1766,  in  aid  of  extraordinary  services  60,638  2  10 
Voted  in  the  year  1767,  in  aid  of  extraordinaries  and 

other  services 171,571  13     3 

Voted  in  the  year  1768,  in  aid  of  the  supply    ....        15,719  15     7 

£910,541  18     3 

His  Lordship  could  by  no  other  means  ascertain  and  give  into  parliament 
the  savings  on  the  votes  for  the  army  but  by  the  final  adjustment  of  army 
accounts ;  what  further  savings  may  be  is  very  uncertain,  as  they  cannot  be 
known  before  the  services  are  absolutely  determined  and  closed. 

His  Lordship  is  very  sorry  to  say  it,  that  in  the  years  1759, 1760,  1761, 
1762,  1763,  and  1764,  there  are  not  less  than  fifty-six  regiments  and  com- 
panies now  standing  open  and  unadjusted,  for  want  of  authorities,  and  in 
his  ledgers  there  are  accounts  to  a  much  greater  extent,  as  the  pay  of  staff 
officers,  &c.  &c 

It  may  be  seen  here,  that  though  Mr.  Winnington  died  in  April,  1746,  and 
his  executor,  Mr.  Ingram,  used  all  possible  industry  to  close  his  accounts, 
they  could  not  be  closed  till  1760,  fourteen  years.  The  Earl  of  Chatham 
went  out  in  December,  1755 ;  yet  are  not  his  accounts  closed  till  1768, 
thirteen  years.  The  Earl  of  Kinnoul's  are  not  closed  yet,  though  he  has 
been  out  of  the  office  eleven  years.  Lord  Holland  has  been  out  three  years 
and  a  hall     Where  is  the  wonder  his  are  not  closed  1 

If  those  who  complain  will  show  Lord  Holland  how  he  can  proceed  fiuter 

^  It  is  hardly  necessary  to  notice  the  difference  between  savings  and  a  balance 
of  cash  in  hand  ;  the  paymaster's  answer,  however,  applies  only  to  savings 
in  military  expenditure.  Balances  of  public  money  are  constantly  held  by  the 
Bank  of  England,  and  the  Bank  uses  them  (as  Lord  Holland  may  have 
done  his  army  balances),  Hnd  pays  for  the  use  of  them,  which  his  Lordship 
appears  not  to  have  done. — Ei,. 


LORD  H0LLAKD9  ALLEGED  PECULATIOKr        18 

iihmn  he  does,  he  wiI3  be  very  much  obliged  to  them  Let  it  be  obferved 
that  he  h  is  before  the  auditors  already  accounts  for  mure  years  than  Mr. 
\irininngtoii  or  Lord  Einnonl  had  to  acconnt  for. 


KEMORIAXi  ADDRESSRD  TO  THB  LORDS  OF  THE  TREA8TJBT  FOR  LORD  HOL' 
LAHD  TO  HATE  LONGER  TIME  TO  MAKE  UP  HIS  AOOOUNTS  AS  PATMASTSm^ 
OEHBRAL. 

May  it  please  your  LordshipSf 
i  BEO  to  inform  your  Lordships  that  a  process  is  in  the  hands  of  the  sheriffs 
y{  Middlesex  against  me,  to  account  to  his  Majesty  for  the  moneys  imprested 
u>  me  as  paymaster-general  of  his  Majesty's  forces. 

I  most  humbly  apprehend  that  the  regular  ordinary  course  of  accountinff  in 
the  exchequer  was  calculated  (when  established)  for  transactions  at  home,  which 
ire  easily  and  readily  to  be  collected  and  made  up  at  short  periods  of  time. 
^  The  accounts  of  the  army,  when  employed  abroad  particularly,  must  mia- 
roidably  be  much  in  arrear,  from  the  nature  of  the  service. 

The  army  payments  are  necessarily  in  arrear ;  and  articles,  from  accidents 
inevitable,  are  obliged  to  remain  often  open  a  long  time  before  they  can 
finally  be  closed. 

The  accounts  of  the  last  war  are  voluminous  and  difficult  beyond  example. 
The  great  variety  of  operations,  and  the  very  great  distance  of  the  troops, 
made  and  must  make  the  correspondence,  and  adjustiiig  those  accounts  with 
the  paymasters  and  accountants  attending  them,  very  slow  and  tedious. 
These  therefore  will  require  longer  time  to  make  up,  both  from  their  bulk 
and  difficulty. 

During  the  course  of  a  war,  the  troops  constantly  changing  and  moving,  and 
&he  service  in  the  utmost  hurry,  it  cannot  then  be  done  with  the  order  and 
regularity  absolutely  necessary.  Since  the  war  the  utmost  diligence  has  been 
used  in  them*  The  great  intricate  article  of  foreign  expense  (viz.  the  Ger- 
man), has  been  got  together  for  the  whole  time  (which,  alter  the  former  war, 
was  several  years  about) ;  and  one  year  and  a  half's  general  account  is  now 
made  out,  and  ready  to  be  laid  before  the  auditors ;  the  rest  will  regularly 
be  laid  before  them  as  fast  as  it  is  possible  to  make  them  up.  Though  I 
hiive  been  two  years  out  of  employment,  the  payments  for  my  time  are  not 
yet  completed.  * 

I  therefore  pray  your  Lordships  will  be  pleased  to  obtain  his  Majesty's 
warrant,  granting  me  longer  time  for  making  up  my  accounts  as  paymaster* 
general  of  his  Majesty's  forces. 

Pay- Office,  Horse  Guards,  Which  is,  &c.  &c. 

25th  June,  1767.  Hollani). 


IIEO'S  WARRANT,  8TA7  OF  PR3CESS  AGAINST  LORD  HOLLAND  FOR  SIX  MONTHS. 

Georgje  E. 
Whereas  our  right  trusty  and  well-beloved  Henry  Lord  Holland  hath, 
by  the  annexed  memorii^,  represented  that,  from  several  unavoidable  causes 
and  difficulties,  be  hath  been  prevented  making  up  his  accounts  as  late  pay^ 
master-general  of  our  forces;  and  we,  having  taken  the  said  matter  inte 
aur  rojai  consideration,  are  graciously  pleased  to  grant  unto  him  a  fiirthei 


14  PRIVATE    lETTERS   OF  JUNIUS. 

time  for  making  up  his  said  accouirts.  Our  will  and  pleasure  therefore  ii, 
and  we  do  hereby  direct,  authorize,  and  require  you  to  cause  all  pr&cesa 
against  the  said  Henry  Lord  Holland  for  his  accounts,  as  late  paymaster- 
general  of  our  forces,  to  be  stayed  for  and  during  the  term  of  six  monthsi 
computed  from  the  day  of  the  date  hereof.  And  for  so  doing  this  shall  be 
your  warrant.  Given  at  oar  Court  at  Snint  James's,  the  eighth  day  of  July, 
1767y  in  the  seventh  year  of  our  reign.  • 

By  bis  Mrijesty*s  command, 

Grafton. 

c.  towvshkhd. 

t.  townshxnd. 
To  our  right,  trusty,  and  well-beloved  Samuel  Lord  Marsham,  our  Remem- 
brancer in  our  Court  of  Exchequer. 


The  charge  against  the  Paymaster  of  the  Forces,  v-^f  being  the  "de&nlter  qf 
unaccounted  millions,"  was  an  exaggeration  or  invention  of  party  warfiue, 
virtually  without  foundation,  got  up  by  the  city  friends  of  the  Earl  of 
Chatham,  to  annoy  his  political  adversary  ;  and  it  was  not  creditable  to  Mr. 
Beckford's  ingenuousness  to  reserve  for  the  confidence  of  a  "  single  friend  ** 
the  explanatory  paper  that  Lord  Holland  had  communicated  to  him.  It 
appears,  however,  strange  at  this  day,  that  the  paymaster's  accounts  from 
1757  to  1764,  should  not  have  been  closed  with  the  Treasury  in  1769 ;  but 
this  seems  to  have  been  no  fault  of  his  Lordship— it  was  the  ordinary  routine 
of  public  business ;  and  the  &ct  of  having  arrears  of  outstanding  accounts 
long  after  withdrawal  from  office  was  a  misfortune  he  shared  with  his 
official  predecessors.  At  Lord  Holland's  death,  some  years  later,  the 
auditing  of  his  accounts  had  not  been  completed;  but  he  left  with  his 
executors  a  sufficient  sum  of  money  expressly  for  the  discharge  of  whatever 
he  should,  in  the  end,  appear  to  owe  the  exchequer.  His  Lordship's  political 
::hHracter  has  been  already  adverted  to  in  the  exposition  given  of  the 
authorship  of  the  Letters  of  Junitis.  He  had  many  qualities  in  common 
with  his  more  celebrated  second  son,  Charles  James  Fox,  the  Whig  leader. 
He  was  a  man  of  pleasure  and  practical  politician ;  a  good  classical  scholar, 
and  a  cultivator  of  the  fine  arts ;  an  expert  parliamentary  debater,  and  a 
close,  argumentative  speaker ;  but  he  was  lax  in  his  public  principles, 
9fter  the  fashion  of  the  Walpole  school,  and  amassed  a  large  fortune — the 
proseeds  of  an  active  official  life  and  parliamentary  management — Ed. 


B. 

The  Mr.  Onslow  spoken  of  at  the  end  of  Letter  5,  as  weU  as  in  Tuioai 
boner  parts  of  Junius,  became  Lord  Onslow.  The  history  of  his  ditpnta 
with  Mr.  Home  Tooke  is  as  follows :—  In  the  Ptihlie  Adveriiiei^  of  July  14, 
1760,  the  following  letter  made  its  appearance,  addressfd 

"  TO   THE    RIGHT    HON.    OEOROK  ONSLOW,    KS<;i. 
"811;, 

*  I  HAVK  heard  from  very  good  iivthority  that   one  of  the  Lords  of  the 


tX>BD   HOLLAND*S   ALLEGED   PECULATIOK.  15 

» 

TrwOTTj  has  lately  gained  a  thousand  pnunds  in  a  very  common  and  uiua^ 
■anner,  which  is  yet  likely  to  be  attended  with  a  very  uncommon  and 

mwiwial  consequence.     Mr. applied  to  the  right  honourable  Mr. 

fiw  his  interest  for  a  certain  lucrative  post  in  America.     The  gentleman  was 

infbnned  tlmt  a  thousand  pounds,  placed  in  the  hands  of  Mrs. ,  would 

iiiMire  him  the  pkce.     Mr. not  having  the  money,  prevailed  on  Colonel 

to  join  with  him  in  a  bond  for  that  sum  to  the  lady  to  whom  he  was 

directed.  So  &r,  Sir,  all  is  in  the  common  track :  what  follows  is  the 
wonderful  part  of  the  transaction.  This  Lord  of  the  Treasury  kept  his 
word,  and  the  gentleman  was  appointed  to  the  office  he  had  paid  for  1     And 

•tranger  still.  Lord ,  who  discovered  this  bai^in  and  sale,  is  offended 

at  it,  and  insists  on  the  dismission  cf  this  Lord  of  the  Treasury.    Now,  Sir, 
I  most  intreat  you  to  &Tour  one  of  your  constituents  with  the  name  of  this 
Lord  of  the  Treasury,  for  you,  no  doubt,  who  sit  at  that  Board  yourself,  must 
be  acquainted  with  him. 
'*Ash  Court,  July  11.  Another  Freeholder  of  Surret.'* 

To  this  letter  Mr.  Onslow  made  the  following  reply,  which  was  published 
in  the  same  newspaper,  July  18  ensuing. 

"to  the  printer  of  the  publio  advertiser. 
"Sir,  "July  16. 

"Havino  just  now  read  a  letter  containing,  by  evident  insinuation,  a  most 
aadacious  attack  upon  my  character,  printed  by  you,  in  your  paper  of  Friday 
latt,  asserting  a  gross  and  infamous  lie  from  beginning  to  end  ;  I  do  hereby 
publicly  call  upon  you  to  name  the  person  from  whom  you  .received  the 
account  yon  have  presumed  to  publish.  If  you  are  either  unable  or 
unwilling  to  do  this,  I  shall  most  certainly  treat  you  as  the  author,  and,  in 
justice  both  to  myself  and  others  who  are  every  day  thus  malignantly  and 
wickedly  vilified,  shall  take  the  best  advice  in  the  Ihw  if  an  action  will  not 
lie  for  snch  atrocious  defamation,  and  if  I  may  not  hope  to  make  an  example 
of  the  author  of  it. 

"  The  scurrility  in  general  which  has  been  of  late  so  heaped  upon  me  in 
the  public  papers  I  have  hitherto  treated  with  the  contempt  my  friends  and 
myself  thought  it  deserved,  and  suffered  it  to  pass  with  impunity ;  but  this 
latt  is  so  outrageous,  and  tends  so  much  to  wound  my  character  and  honour 
in  the  tenderest  part,  that  I  am  determined,  if  practicable,  to  see  if  a  jury 
will  not  do  me  and  the  public  justice  against  such  a  libeller,  and  whether  they 
will  not  think  the  robbing  an  innocent  man  of  his  character  is  a  robbery  of 
the  most  dangerous  kind,  and^that  the  perpetrators  of  it  will  stick  at  nothing. 

"  Fw  the  present  I  must  content  myself  with  only  laying  before  the  public 
the  two  following  letters,  which  will  explain  to  them  all  the  knowledge  I  had 
cf  the  detestable  fraud,  which  has  been  taken  advantage  of  to  charge  me 
with  corruption  ;  a  crime  which,  of  all  others,  I  hold  the  most  in  abhorrence. 
I  defy  the  whole  world  to  prove  a  single  word  in  your  libellous  letter  to  be 
true,  or  that  the  whole  is  not  a  bare&ced,  positive,  and  entire  lie.  That 
it  is  10  I  do  aismty  and  I  call  npon  any  body,  if  they  can,  to  disprove  whwl 

*'Gi:oiiGE  Onslow." 


16  PBITATE   LETTERS   OF  JUNIUS. 

Cop}*  of  a  Letter  to  Mr.  Onslow,  received  the  27th  of  Jane 

"  Sib,  "New  Bond  Street,  June  25,  1769. 

**  I  BBO  you  will  pardon  my  thus  addressing  you,  a  liberty  I  could  not  think 
•f,  was  anything  less  than  my  family's  bread  at  stake.  Some  weeks  past 
my  husband  paid  a  large  sum  of  money  (which  gave  us  inexpressible  sorrow 
to  raise)  to  a  party  who  protest  they  are  empowered  by  you  to  insure  him, 
in  return,  the  coUectorship  of  Pisciitaway  in  New  ^Hampshire.  I  have  been 
told  this  day  one  Hughes  is  in  possession  of  the  same,  and  the  Treasury 
books  confirm  the  news.  I  beg  leave  most  earnestly  to  intreat  you  wiU 
inform  me  whether  Mr.  Hughes  is  under  any  engagement  to  resign,  or 
whether  we  are  duped  by  those  who  have  taken  our  money. 

"  Kt,  Bums  has  had  the  strongest  recommendations  from  persons  of  im- 
doubttfd  veracity,  and  I.  believe,  on  all  accounts,  will  be  found  to  be  perfectly 
capable  and  worthy  of  the  employment 

"Once  more  I  intreat,  good  Sir,  you  will  excuse  this  trouble,  which  u  caused 
by  a  heart  almost  broken  with  the  fear  and  terror  of  a  disappointment. 
With  the  profoundest  respect, 

"  I  am,  Sir, 

"  Your  most  obedient  humble  Servant, 

"  Maky  Buens.'* 

Mr.  Onslow's  Answer. 

"  Madam,  "  Ember  Court,  June  27,  1769. 

"  Your  letter  was  brought  down  to  me  hither  only  to-day,  or  I  should  have 
answered  it  sooner.  Without  having  the  honour  of  being  known  to  you  or 
Mr.  Bums,  it  gives  me  much  concern  that  any  body  should  be  so  imposed 
upon  as  you  ha^e  been,  and  as  much  indignaXion  that  my  name  should  be 
made  so  infisunous  a  use  of.  I  should  have  been  under  an  equal  degree  of 
surprise,  had  I  not  this  morning  had  some  intimation  of  the  matter  from  Mr. 
Pownal  and  Mr.  Bradshaw,  and  made  some  inquiry  into  it  of  Mr.  Watkins 
at  Charing  Cross,  with  a  determination  to  sift  this  shocking  scene  of  villany 
to  the  bottom,  and  which  I  shall  now  be  encouraged  in  by  the  hopes  of 
getting  you  your  money  restored  to  you,  as  well  as  the  eamest  desire  I  have 
to  bring  the  perpetrators  of  this  roguery  to  the  punishment  and  shame  they 
deserve. 

**  For  this  purpose,  might  I  beg  the  favour  of  Mr^  Bums  to  meet  me  at  my 
house  in  Curzon  Street,  about  ten  o'clock  on  Friday  morning.  I  will  go 
with  him  to  Mr.  Fownal's,  of  which  I  have  given  him  notice ;  and  I  wish 
Mr.  Bums  would  bring  with  him  Mr.  Watkins,  or  any  body  else  that  can 
give  light  into  this  unhappy  and  wicked  affair. 

**  Till  this  morning  I  never  in  my  life  heard  a  single  word  of  either  the 
office  itself,  nor  of  any  of  the  parties  concerned.  You  will  judge  then  o( 
my  astonishment,  and  ind^xl  horror,  at  hearing  of  it  to-day  from  Mr. 
Bradshaw. 

"  I  am,  Madam,  &c., 

"Gbobgb  Okslow." 

**  Since  writing  of  the  above  letters,  more  of  this  fraud  has  been  detected, 
in^  further  inquiry  is  making,  in  order  to  bring  the  actors  in  it  to  juatice. 
A.  woman  of  the  name  of  Smith,  who  lives  near  Broad  Street,  is  the  penot 


SALE  OF  PLACES.  1 


^ 


«:io  appesn  to  lie  pnncipally  concerned  in  the  fraud,  the  money  being,  it 
•eeniB,  for  her  lue." 


The  writer  of  the  first  address,  now  authorizing  the  printer  to  giye  Mr. 
Onslow  his  name,  (which  he  did,  and  which  was  that  of  the  Bev.  John 
Home,)  once  more  attacked  the  Bight  Honourable  Gentleman  as  follows,  in 
the  same  paper,  July  28. 

''to  thb  riqht  honou&ablb  qbobob  onbiow. 

"Good  Sir, 
**  Iw  with  another  nnrocaENTman,  Lord  Holland,  yon  were  ambitious  to  add  to 
the  list  of  Mr.  Walpole's  right  honourable  authors,  you  might,  like  him, 
hare  exposed  yourself  with  more  temper,  and  have  odl^  names  iu  better 
Bngliflh. 

"I  should  be  sorry  to  libel  you  by  mistaking  your  meaning,  but  the  strange 
maimer  of  wording  your  first  sentence  leaves  me  at  a  loss  to  know  whether 

yoa  intend  that  my  letter,  or your  own  character  is  *a  grou  and  vnr 

famout  lie  from  banning  to  end,* 

*'  Tou  may  save  yourself  the  expense  of  taking  '  Iht  lest  advice  in  the 
lav.*  Depend  upon  it  you  can  never  '  hope  to  maJse  an  example  qf  the 
author,  when  the  pvibli^er  is  unahU  or  wiwilling  to  give  up  his  name.* 
And  yon  need  not  wait  for  a  jufy  to  determine, '  that  robbing  a  man  is 
vertainly  a  robbery*  -But  you  should  have  considered  some  months  since 
that  it  is  the  same  thing  whether  the  man  be  guilty  or  innocent;  and 
whether  he  be  robbed  of  his  reputation  or of  his  seat  in  parliament 

**  In  the  Public  Advertiser  of  Friday,  July  14,  there  is  a  letter  vrom  you 
as  well  as  to  you.  If  that  is  the  scurrility  you  speak  of,  I  agree  with  you 
that  it  haa  been  treated  with  the  contempt  it  deserves  by  all  the  world ;  but 
how  you  can  say  that  it  has  passed  with  impunity,  I  own  I  cannot  con- 
ceive, unless  indeed  you  are  of  opinion  with  those  hardened  criminals  who 
think  that,  because  there  is  no  corporal  suffsrance  in  it,  the  being  gibbeted 
in  chains  and  exposed  aa  a  apectacle  makes  no  part  of  their  punishment. 

**  The  letter  written  by  you  to  Mr.  Wilkes  tends  more  '  to  wound  your 
dkaraeter  and  honour*  than  any  other,  and  yet  yon  pass  it  over  in  silence. 
Bat  you  shall,  if  you  please,  prove  to  the  world  that  those  who  have  neither 
character  nor  honour  may  still  be  wounded  in  a  very  tender  part — their 
interest.  And  I  believe  Lord  Hillsborough  is  too  noble  to  suffer  any  Lord 
of  the  Treasury  to  prostitute  his  name  and  commission  to  bargains  like  that 
I  have  exposed ;  but  will,  if  be  continues  to  preside  at  the  Board  of  Trade, 
reaolutely  insist  either  on  such  Lord's  full  justification  or  dismission.  Eine 
Uiee  laehrynue. 

**  Yon  '  defy  iht  whole  world  to  prove  a  single  word  in  my  letter  to  be  true; 
rr  that  the  whole  is  not  a  barrfaced,  positive,  and  entire  lie,*  The  language 
jf  the  last  part  of  the  sentence  is  such  as  I  can  make  no  use  o^  and  there- 
fore I  letum  it  back  on  you  to  whom  it  belongs :  the  defiance  in  the  first 
I  accept,  and  will  disprove  what  you  say. 

**  My  letter  can  only  be  &lse  in  one  particular,  fei  it  contains  only  one 
afinnation,  namely,  that  I  heard  the  story  I  relate  from  very  good  authority. 
It  then  concludes  with  a  question  i>  you  of— -who  is  this  Lord  of  the 
XraAsury  that  so  abhors  corruption      Which  questiogi  onoe  yon  haivt 

TOL.  n  a 


18  PBTVATE   LETTKRR   OF  JUNIUS. 

answered,  I  too  will  gratify  you,  and  in  return  for  yours  do  herely  difcci 
the  printer  to  give  you  my  name;  which,  humble  as  it  is,  I  should  not 
consent  to  exchange  with  you  in  any  other  manner. 

"  Now,  Sir^  I  do  again  affirm  that  I  heard  the  story  from  the  best  authority . 
and  that  it  is  not  my  invention  your  own  letter  is  a  proof,  for  1  mig[ht  have 
heard  it  either  from  Mrs.  Bums,  or  from  Mr.  Pownal,  or  Mr.  Bradshaw; 
but  I  heard  it  from  better  authority.  I  go  further.  I  do  still  believe  the 
story  as  I  related  it  to  be  true ;  nor  has  anything  you  have  said  convinced 
me  to  the  contrary.  I  do  not  mean  to  charge  you  or  any  one ;  but  since 
you  have  condescended  to  answer  my  former  question,  be  kind  enough  to 
explain  what  follows. 

^'Mr.  Pownal  is  secretary  to  the  Board  of  Trade.  Mr.  Bradshaw  is 
secretary  to  the  Treasury.  Why  did  these  two  secretaries  come  together  to 
you?  Were  they  sent  by  their  principals  or  not?  Who  first  detected  thia 
very  scandalous  though  very  common  traffic)  Has  not  Lord  Hillsborough 
that  honour?  And  is  not  your  exaggerated  *  (d>i4)rrence  qf  corrupHon, 
your  oitonishment,  and  indeed  hobbob,  at  this  shocking  scene  qf  vUlany* 
vastly  heightened  by  the  calm,  and  therefore  unsuspected  disapprobation  of 
his  Lordship,  who  does  not  seem  to  think  with  you  that  every  whore  should 
be  hanged  aJive,  but  only  that  they  should  be  turned  out  of  honest  company  t 

"  How  came  you  so  instantly  to  entertain  hopes  of  getting  the  money 
restored  to  Mrs.  Bums?  when  you  declared  that,  *tiU  tikat  morning,  you 
never  in  yottr  life  heard  a  single  word  qf  either  the  office  itse^,  nor  qf  any  qf 
the  parties  concerned.*  Jonathan  Wild,  used  to  return  such  answers,  because 
he  knew  the  theft  was  committed  by  some  of  his  own  gang. 

**  Tou  pretend  to  have  given  to  the  public  '  all  the  knowledge  you  have  qf 
this  detestable  fraud.*  I  cannot  believe  it,  because  I  find  nothing  in  your 
letter  on  which  to  found  your  hopes  of  restoring  the  money  to  Mrs.  Bnma; 
and  especially  because  in  three  weeks  after  this  letter,  i.  e.  from  June  27  to 
.July  18,  you  have  only  discovered  '  that  Mrs.  Smith  appears  to  be  priu' 
cipally  concerned  in  this  detestable  fraud,  the  money  being,  it  seems,  for  her 
use*  Sir,  do  you  not  know  WHOsn  wife  Mrs.  Smith 'is?  «nd  are  yon  not 
acquainted  with  that  gentlenuin?  Have  you  caused  Mrs.  Smith  or  anj  one 
else  to  be  taken  into  custody?  Have  you  taken  *ihe  best  advice  in  law, 
and  are  you  determined  to  see  if  a  jury  vnJU  not  do  you  and  the  public 
iustice'  for  this  detestable  fraud?  Or  is  there  yet  left  one  crime  which  yon 
abhor  more  than  corraption,  and  for  which  you  reserve  all  your  indignation  I 
But  why  this  anger?  He  that  is  innocent  can  easily  prove  himself  to  be  so, 
and  should  be  thankful  to  those  who  give  him  the  opportunity  by  making  a 
story  public.  Malicious  and  false  skmder  never  acts  in  this  open  manner, 
but  seeks  the  covert,  and  cautiously  conceals  itself  from  the  party  maligned 
in  order  to  prevent  a  justification.  If  any  person  have  done  your  character 
an  injury  by  a  charge  tf  cormption,  they  are  most  guilty  who  so  thoron^y 
believed  you  capable  of  that  crime  as  to  pay  a  large  sum  of  money  on  the 
supposition  (an  indignity  which  I  protest  I  would  not  have  offered  to  you, 
though  you  had  negotiated  the  matter  and  given  the  promise  yourself) :  and 
yet  I  do  not  find  you  at  all  angry  with  them  when  they  tell  yon  tbeir 
opinion  of  you  without  scruple.  On  the  contrary,  you  pity  Mrs.  Boms  m 
the  kindest  manner,  which  shows  plainly  that  your  honoor  is  not  like 
Caeiar^s  wife.    STay,  yon  seem  almost  to  doubt  whether  yen  *  might  beg  tkt 


8ALG   OF   PLACES.  19 

rsfottr  nf  Mr.  Burn*  to  meet  you  at  your  house  in  Curzon  Stieel/  that  is, 
yon  humbly  solicit  Mr.  Bums  to  do  you  the  favour  of  accepting  you- 
tasistaiice  in  the  recovery  of  his  money.  Archbishop  Laud  thought  t^ 
dear  himself  to  posterity  from  all  aspersions  relative  to  popery,  by  inserting 
in  his  diary  his  refusal  of  a  cardinal's  hat;  not  perceiving  the  disgrace 
indelibly  fixed  on  him  by  the  offer.  *  Mr.  Bums  has  had  the  strongest 
recomMendations  from  persons  of  undoubted  veracity,  and  I  believe  on  all 
aecouiUs  will  be  found  to  be  perfectly  capable  and  worthy  the  employment* 
The  letter  from  Mrs.  Bums  to  you  does  by  no  means  declare  her  to  be  an 

idiot     Colonel (whom  you  forbear  to  mention)  is  a  man  of  sense, 

sod  well  acquainted  with  the  world.     It  is  strange  they  should  all  three 
believe  yoa  capable  of  this  crime,  ^^^^^  '^  ^^^  others  you  most  hold  in 
ohhorrence,*     Mr.  Pownal,  Mr.  Bradshaw,  and  their  principals,  are  supposed 
to  know  something  of  men  and  things,  and  therefore  I  conclude  they  did  not 
believe  you  concerned  in  this  business:  though  I  wonder  much  that,  not 
believing  it,  both  the  secretaries  should  wait  on  you  so  seriously  about  it 
but  perhaps  they  may  think,  that  when  honour  and  justice  are  not  the  rule^ 
of  men's  actions,  there  is  nothing  incredible  that  may  be  for  their  advantage. 
Bnt,  Sir,  whatever  may  be  their  sentiments  of  you,  I  must  in  treat  you  to 
entertain  no  resentment  to  me ;  my  opinion  of  your  character  would  never 
suffer  me  to  doubt  your  innocence.     If  indeed  the  charge  of  corruption  had 
been  brought  against  a  low  and  ignorant  debauchee,  who,  without  the  gratifi- 
catims  and  enjoyments  of  a  gentleman,  had  wasted  a  noble  patrimony 
amongst  the  lowe^st  prostitutes;  whose  necessities  had  driven  him  to  hawk 
about  a  reversion  on  the  moderate  terms  of  one  thousand  for  two  hundred; 
whose  desperate  situation  had  made  him  renounce  his  principles  and  desert 
his  firienda,  those  principles  and  those  friends  to  which  he  stood  indebted  for 
hii  chief  support;  who  for  a  paltry  consideration  had  stabbed  a  sear  old 
noHD,  and  violated  the  sacred  rights  of  that  giateful  country  that  continued 
to  the  son  the  reward  of  his  father's  services :  if  the  charge  had  been  brought  * 
i^gainst  such  an  one,  more  fit  to  receive  the  public  charity  than  to  be  trusted 
with  the  DISPOSAL  and  management  of  the  public  money,  small  proof  would 
have  been  sufficient;  and  instead  of  considering  it  as  a  crime  the  most  to  be 
abhorred,  we  might  have  suffered  corruption  to  pass  amongst  the  virtues  of 
nch  a  man.     But  yours,  Sir,  is  a  very  different  character  and  situation.     In 
the  clear  and  unincumbered  possession  of  the  paternal  estate  with  which 
your  ancestors  have  long  been  respectable;  with  a  pension  of  three  thousand, 
ind  a  place  of  one  thousand  a  year;   with  the  certain ' prospect  of  Lord 
Onslow's  large  fortune,  which  your  prudence  will  not  anticipate ;  grateful  to 
your  country,  £uthful  to  your  connections,  and  firm  to  your  principles,  it 
onght  to  be  as  difficult  to  convict  you  of  corruption,  as  a  cardinal  of  forni- 
artian;  for  which  last  purpose,  by  the  canon  law,  no  less  than  seventy-two 
eye-witnesses  are  necessary.     Thus,  Sir,  you  see  how  ^  I  am  from  casting 
any  reflection  on  your  integrity;  however  if,  notwithstanding  all  I  have  said, 
yon  are  still  resolved  to  try  the  determination  of  a  jury,  take  one  piece  of 
idvise  from  me :  do  not  think  of  prosecuting  me  for  an  insinuation  ;  alter 
yonr  charge  before  it  comes  upon  record,  to  prevent  its  being  done  after- 
wards ;  for  though  Lord  Mansfield  did  not  know  the  difference  between  the 
Wdf  wlien  he  substituted  the  one  for  the  other,  we  all  know  very  well  now 

0  d 


20  PRIVATE   LETTEKS   OP  J€N1U8 

that  it  is  the  tenob  and  not  the  purport  that  must  convict  for  a  libel,  irhick 
in'^eed  almost  every  student  in  the  law  knew  before. 

"  Ahotheb  Fsbsholder  op  Surrbt.** 

The  names  of  Lord  Hillsborough  and  Mr.  Pownal  having  been  introduced 
Into  the  preceding  letter,  they  thought  proper  to  deny  any  other  knowledge  ol 
Ur.  Onslow's  supposed  turpitude  than  that  proceeding  from  common  report, 
Aud  accordingly  inserted  the  following  letters  in  the  Public  Advertiter  od 
the  day  after  their  respective  dates.  Long  as  this  note  is,  we  cannot,  io 
justice  to  Mr.  Onslow,  here  omit  them. 

"  TO  H.  8.  WOODFALL, 

"  PriiUei'  of  the  Public  Advertiser. 

''Hayino  observed  in  a  newspaper  of  the  28th  of  July  hist,  that  it  ia 
insinuated  that  I  have  been  the  detector  of  a  supposed  crime,  imputed  to  the 
Bight  Honourable  George  Onslow,  Esq.,  I  do  think  it  an  act  of  common 
justice  to  declare  in  this  public  manner,  that  I  am  entirely  ignorant  of  the 
said  supposed  crime,  and  of  all  circumstances  relative  to  it,  except  that  I 
have  heard  the  story  mentioned  in  common  conversation,  and  constantly 
treated  as  a  caluuniy  propagated  to  injure  Mr.  Onslow's  reputation. 

"  HlLLSBOBOUOH." 

**  Hanover  Square,  August  2,  1769. 


"  It  having  been  suggested  in  a  letter  addressed  to  the  Bight  Honourable 
George  Onslow,  pubKshed  in  a  newspaper  dated  the  28th  of  July  last,  that 
I  was,  together  with  Mr.  Bradshaw,  sent  to  Mr.  Onslow  on  the  subject  of  a 
scandalous  transaction,  in  which  Mr.  Onslow  is,  in  the  said  letter,  stated  to 
be  concerned,  it  is  become  necessary  for  me,  in  justice  to  that  gentleman,  to 
declare  that  I  never  was  sent  to  Mr.  Onslow,  on  that  or  any  other  occasion; 
but  having  heard  this  story,  I  thought  it  but  common  justice  to  communicate 
it  to  Mr.  Onslow,  which  I  did  through  the  channel  of  Mr.  Bradshaw. 

"J.  POWHAL." 

"  Whitehall,  August  2, 1769. 

An  action  for  defamation  against  Mr.  Home  was  brought  by  Mr.  Onslow, 
agreeably  to  his  menace,  and  the  damages  were  laid  at  10,000/.  It  waa 
tried  before  Mr.  Justice  Blackstone,  at  the  Surrey  Assizes  held  at  Eingaton, 
April  6,  1770,  and  terminated  in  Mr.  Onslow's  nonsuit,  in  consequence  ol 
'  the  word  pounds  being  inserted  in  the  record,  instead  of  the  word  pound. 
The  cause  was  re-heard  before  Lord  Chief  Justice  Mansfield  at  the  ensuing 
Summer  Assizes  held  at  Guildford,  when  Mr.  Onslow  was  again  nonsuited. 
Th«)  trial  is  supposed  to  have  cost  Mr.  Onslow  upwards  of  1600^  in  ooi> 
«eq  lanoe  of  his  having  Bitai'ned  all  the  principal  counsel  npon  the 


TO   MB.   H.   S.  WOODFAIX,  21 


No.  6. 


Sir,  Sunday,  August  6, 1769. 

The  ripirit  of  your  letter*  convinces  me  that  you  are  a  mucL 
better  writer  than  most  of  the  people  whose  works  you 
publish.  Whether  you  have  guessed  well  or  ill  must  be  left 
to  our  future  acquaintance.  For  the  matter  of  assistance,  be 
assured  that,  if  a  question  should  arise  upon  any  writings  of 
mine,  you  shall  not  want  it.  Yet  you  see  how  things  go,  and 
I  fear  my  assistance  would  not  avail  you  much.  For  the 
other  points  of  printing,  &c.,  it  does  not  depend  upon  us 
at  present.  My  own  works  you  shall  constantly  have,  and  in 
point  of  money  be  assured  you  never  shall  suffer.  I  wish  the 
inclosed  t  to  be  announced  to-morrow  conspkuously  for  Tues- 
day.    I  am  not  capable  of  writing  anything  more  finished. 

Your  Friend, 

C. 

Your  YeridicuiX  is  Mr.  Whitworth.     I  assure  you  I  have 
not  confided  in  him 


No.  7. 


Sib,  Wednesday  Night,  August  16,  1769. 

I  HAVE  been  some  days  in  the  country,  and  could  not  con- 
veniently send  for  your  letter  until  this  night.  Your  cor- 
rection was  perfectly  right.  The  sense  required  it,  and  I  am 
much  obliged  to  you.  When  I  spoke  of  innumerable  blunders, 
I  meant  Newberry^s  pamphlet ;  for  I  must  confess  that  upon 
the  whole  your  papers  are  very  correctly  printed. 

Do  with  my  letters  exactly  what  you  please.  I  should 
think  that,  to  make  a  better  figure  than  Newberry,  some 
others  of  my  letters  may  be  added,  and  so  throw  out  a  hint 
that  you  have  reason  to  suspect  they  are  by  the  same  author. 
If  you  adopt  this  plan,  I  shall  point  out  those  which  I  would 

*  The  substance  of  Mr.  Wood&U's  reply  to  Private  Letter  No.  8  is  not 
kuown. 

t  Junius,  Letter  20,  vol.  i  p.  197. 

:|:  Veridicu8  was  a  freqnent  writer  in  the  Public  Advertiser  in  the  yeai 
1769,  and,  as  already  observed  m  the  Prelimioary  Essay,  was  Richard 
Whitworth,  Esq.,  M.  P.  foi  Stafford. 


22  PttlVATE   LETTKRS   OF  JUNIUS 

recommend ;  for,  you  know,  I  do  not,  nor  indeed  have  I  time 
to  give  equal  care  to  them  all. 

I  know  Mr.  Onslow  perfectly.  He  is  a  false  silly  fellow. 
Depend  upon  it  he  will  get  nothing  but  shame  by  contending 
with  Home*. 

I  believe  I  need  not  assure  you  that  I  have  never  written 
in  any  other  paper  since  I  began  with  yours.  As  to  Junius,  I 
must  wait  for  fresh  matter,  as  this  is  a  character  which  must 
be  kept  up  with  credit.  Avoid  prosecutions  if  you  can ;  but, 
above  all  things,  avoid  the  Houses  of  Parliament — there  is  no 
contending  with  them.  At  present  you  are  safe,  for  this 
House  of  Commons  has  lost  all  dignity,  and  dare  not  do  any- 
thing. 

Adieu, 


No.  8. 


(Private.) 

Sir,  September  10,  1769. 

The  last  letter  you  printed  was  idle  and  improper,  and  I 
assure  you  printed  against  my  own  opinion  t.  Tbe  truth  is^ 
there  are  people  about  me  whom  I  would  wish  not  to  con- 
tradict, and  who  had  rather  see  Junius  in  the  papers  ever  so 
improperly  than  not  at  all.  I  wish  it  could  be  recalled. 
Suppose  you  were  to  say — We  have  some  reason  to  suspect  that 
the  last  Utter  signed  Junius  in  this  paper,  was  not  written  by 
the  real  Junius,  though  the  observation  escaped  u>s  at  the  time ; 
or,  if  you  can  hit  off  anything  yourself  more  plausible,  you 
will  much  oblige  me,  but  without  a  positive  assertion.  Don't 
let  it  be  the  same  day  with  the  inclosed.  Begging  your 
pardon  for  this  trouble,  I  remain  your  friend  and  humble 
servant, 

a 

*  This  contest  is  already  related  in  the  note  to  Private  Letter,  No.  5. 
f  It  occurs  in  the  Misoellaneoiu  Letter,  No.  59,  post     In  the  geodne 
edition  it  was  omitted  for  the  reason  which  the  ftuthor  has  here  tpeciood. 


/  TO   MB.   H.   S.   WOODFALL.  23 

No.  9. 
(Private.) 

Bn,  Friday  Night,  September  15,  1769. 

I  BEO  you  will  to-morrow  advertise  Junius  to  another  Duke  in 
our  next*.  If  Mondays  paper  be  engaged,  then  let  it  be  for 
Tuesday,  but  not  advertised  till  Monday.  You  shall  have  it 
some  time  to-morrow  night.  It  cannpt  be  corrected  and 
0opied  sooner.     I  mean  to  make  it  worth  printing.   . 

Yours, 

a 


No.  10. 


Thursday  Night,  October  6,  1769. 

I  SHALL  be  glad  to  see  the  packet  you  speak  oft.  It  cannot 
come  from  the  Cavendishes,  though  there  be  no  end  of  the 
family.  They  would  not  be  so  silly  as  to  put  their  arms  on 
the  cover.  As  to  me,  be  assured  that  it  is  not  in  the  nature 
of  things  that  they,  or  you,  or  anybody  else,  should  ever  know 
me,  unless  I  make  myself  known.  All  arts,  or  inquiries,  or 
rewards  would  be  equally  ineffectual. 

As  to  you,  it  is  clearly  my  opinion  that  you  have  nothing  to 
fear  from  the  Duke  of  Bedford.  I  reserve  some  things  ex- 
pressly to  awe  him,  in  case  he  should  think  of  bringing  you 
before  the  House  of  Lords.  I  am  sure  I  can  threaten  him 
privately  with  sucb  a  storm  as  would  make  him  tremble  even 
in  his  grave.  You  may  send  to-morrow  to  the  same  place 
witbout  farther  notice ;  and  if  you  have  anything  of  your  own 
to  communicate,  I  shall  be  glad  to  hear  it. 

C. 


No.  11. 


Sim,  November  8,  1769. 

I  HAVE  been  out  of  town  these  three  weeks,  and,  though  I  got 
your  last,  could  not  conveniently  answer  it      Be  so  good  as  to 

•  This  note  accompanied  the  letter  to  his  Grace  the  Duke  of  Bedford, 
Jacius,  No.  23,  vol.  i.  p.  210,  and  was  announced  agreeably  to  tha  abora 
Mqnest  in  the  Public  Advertiser  for  September  19, 1769. 

t  The  nature  of  thif  eommonicatiou  is  not  known. 


24  PRIVATE  LETTEES  OP   JUNIUS. 

Bigiiify  to  Vaughan,  either  by  word  of  mouth,  or  in  ycir  OTwn 
hand,  "  that  his  papers  are  received,  and  that  I  should  hare 
been  ready  to  do  him  the  service  he  desires ;  but  at  present 
it  would  be  quite  useless  to  the  parties,  and  might  offend 
some  persons  who  must  not  be  offended."  As  to  Mr.  Mor- 
timer*, only  make  him  some  civil  excuse. 

I  should  be  much  obliged  to  you,  if  you  would  reprint 
(and  in  the  front  page,  if  not  improper  or  inconvenient)  a 
letter  in  the  London  Evening  Post  of  last  night,  to  the  Duke 
of  Grafton f.  If  it  had  not  been  anticipated,  I  should  have 
touched  upon  the  subject  myself.  However,  it  is  not  ill  done, 
and  it  is  very  material  that  it  should  spread.  The  person 
alluded  to  is  Lord  Denbigh.  I  should  think  you  might 
venture  him  with  a  D.  As  it  stands  few  people  can  guess 
who  is  meant.  The  only  thing  that  hinders  my  pushing  the 
subject  of  my  last  letter,  is  really  the  fear  of  ruining  that  poor 
devil  Gansel,  and  those  other  blockheads. — But  as  soon  as  a 
good  subject  offers. — ^Your  types  really  wanted  mending. 

C. 


No.  12. 


Sir,  November  1 2,  1769. 

I  RETURN  you  the  letters  you  sent  me  yesterday.  A  man  who 
can  neither  write  common  English,  nor  spell,  is  hardly  worth 
attending  to.  It  is  probably  a  trap  for  me.  I  should  be 
glad,  however,  to  know  what  the  fool  means.  If  he  writes 
again,  open  his  letter,  and  if  it  contains  anything  worth  my 
knowing,  send  it ;  otherwise,  not.  Instead  of  0.  in  the  usuid 
place,  say  only  A  Letter  when  you  have  occasion  to  write  to 
me  again.     I  shall  understand  you. 


No.  13. 


Thursday,  November  16,  1769. 
As  I  do  not  choose  to  answer  for  any  body's  sins  but  my  own, 
I  must  desire  you  to  say  to-morrow,  "We  can  assure  the 

*  Hr.  Mortimer  was  either  at  this  time,  or  shortly  afterwards,  employed 
by  Mr.  Wondfall  to  procure  intelligence  for  the  Public  Advertiser, 
f  Miscellaneous  Letter,  No.  61. 


TO   MR.    H.    a,   WOODFALL  25 

public  that  the  letter  signed  A.  B.  relative  to  the  T>nke  of 
Uutlaud,  is  not  written  by  the  author  of  Jwniws.'** 

I  sometimes  change  my  signature,  but  could  have  no  reason 
to  change  the  paper,  especially  for  one  that  does  not  circulate 
half  so  much  as  yours. 

For  the  future,  open  all  letters  to  me,  and  don't  send  them, 
unless  of  importance.     I  can  give  you  light  about  Veridicus-f, 


No.  14. 


Sunday,  December  10, 1769. 

I  WOULD  wish  the  paper  (No.  2)  might  be  advertised  for 
Tuesday  J. 

By  way  of  intelligence  you  may  inform  the  public  that  Mr. 
De  LsL  Fontaine,  for  his  secret  services  in  the  Alley.^  is  ap- 
pointed Barrack-master  to  the  Savoy. 

I  hope  Yaughan  has  got  his  papers  again. 


No.  16. 

Sib,  December  12, 1709. 

You  may  tell  Mr.  Vaughan  that  I  did  not  receive  his  letter 
till  last  night,  and  have  not  had  time  to  look  into  the  paper 
annexed.  I  cannot  at  .present  understand  what  use  I  can 
make  of  it.  It  certainly  shall  not  be  an  ungenerous  one  to 
him.  If  he  or  his  counsel  know  how  to  act,  I  have  saved 
him  already,  and  really  without  intending  it.  The  facts  are 
all  literally  true.  Mr.  Hine's  place  is  customer  at  the  port 
of  Exeter.  Colonel  Burgoyne  received  4000Z.  for  it.  To 
mend  the  matter,  the  money  was  raised  by  contribution,  and 
the  subscribers  quartered  upon  Mr.  Hine.  Among  the  rest, 
one  Dr.  Brook,  a  physician  at  Exeter,  has  1002.  a  year  out  ojf 

*  Miscellaneous  Letter,  No.  61,  and  note*  appended  to  it 

f  Note  to  Private  Letter,  No.  6. 

X  The  paper  here  referred  to  is  the  letter  of  Junius,  No.  84,  vol.  i.  p.  250 
The  cDsning  intelligence  was  pablisned  yerbally  in  the  Ft^lie  Adveititer  o« 
the  next  day,  Dec.  11. 


26  PRIVATE  J.ETTEBS   OF  JUNIUS 

the  saiary.  I  think  you  might  give  these  particular*  in  your 
own  way  to  the  public*.  As  to  yourself,  I  am  convinced  the 
ministry  will  not  venture  to  attack  you.  They  dare  not 
submit  to  such  an  inquiry.  If  they  do,  show  no  fear,  but 
tell  them  plainly  you  will  justify,  and  subpcend  Mr.  Hine, 
Burgoyne,  and  Bradshaw  of  the  Treasury — that  will  silence 
them  at  once.  As  to  the  House  of  Commons  there  may  be 
more  danger.  But  even  there  I  am  fully  satisfied  the 
ministry  will  exert  themselves  to  quash  such  an  inquiry,  and 
on  the  other  side,  you  will  have  friends : — but  they  have  been 
so  grossly  abused  on  all  sides,  that  they  will  hardly  begin 
with  you. 

Tell  Vaughan  his  paper  shall  be  returned.  I  am  now 
meditating  a  capital,  and  I  hope  a  final,  piece;  you  shall 
hear  of  it  shortly  f. 


No.  16. 


December  19,  1769. 

Fob  material  affection,  for  God  s  sake  read  maternal ;  it  is  in 
the  sixth  paragraph  J.     The  rest  is  excellently  done 


No.  17. 


Sir,  December  26,  1769. 

Wjth  the  inclosed  alterations  I  should  think  our  paper  might 
appear  §.  As  to  embowelling,  do  whatever  you  think  proper, 
provided  you  leave  it  intelligible  to  vulgar  capacities;  but 
would  not  it  be  the  shortest  way  at  once  to  print  it  in  an 
anonymous  pamphlet  ?  judge  for  yourself.  I  enter  sincerely 
into  the  anxiety  of  your  situation.     At  the  same  time  I  am 

*  The  facts  were  given  to  the  public  by  Junius  himself  in  Letter  34, 
vol.  i.  ante,  and  are  indeed  touched  upon  more  than  once  in  his  subsequant 
letten. 

f  He  refers  to  the  Letter  to  the  Ein^,  Junius,  No.  35,  vol.  i.  p.  255. 

X  Letter  to  the  King,  Junius,  No.  35. 

§  This  paper  is  supposed  to  have  been  totally  suppressed,  the  alterations 
introduced  into  it  not  having  perhaps  Eatisfied  the  printer  of  his  safety  iu 
publishing  it,  as  the  signal  of  a  private  communication  from  him  to  the  aothtf 
appeared  in  the  P,  A,  of  the  next  day. 


TO   MB    H.   S.'  WOODFALL.  27 

strongly  inclined  to  think  that  you  will  not  be  called  upon-**. 
They  cannot  do  it  without  subjecting  Hine's  affair  to  an  in- 
quiry, which  would  be  worse  than  death  to  the  minister.  As 
it  is,  they  are  more  seriously  stabbed  with  this  last  stroke 
than  all  the  rest.  At  any  rate,  stand  firm  (I  mean  with  all 
the  humble  appearances  of  contrition).  If  you  trim  or  faulter, 
you  will  lose  friends,  without  gaining  others.  Vaughan  has 
done  right  in  publishing  his  letter.  It  defends  him  more 
effectually  than  all  his  nonsense.  I  believe  I  shall  give  him 
a  lift,  for  I  really  think  he  has  been  punished  infinitely  beyond 
his  merits.  1  doubt  much  whether  I  shall  ever  have  the 
pleasure  of  knowing  you ;  but  if  things  take  the  turn  I  ex- 
pect, you  shall  know  me  by  my  works. 

C. 


No  18 
(Pri?a(dr.) 

Sir,  January  12, 1770. 

I  DESIRED  Vaughan  not  to  write  to  me  until  I  gave  him 
notice.  He  must  therefore  blame  himself,  if  the  detention 
of  his  papers  has  been  inconvenient  to  him.  Pray  tell  him 
this,  and  that  he  shall  have  them  in  a  day  or  two.  I  shall 
also  keep  my  promise  to  hipaf;  but  to  do  it  immediately  would 
be  useless  to  him,  and  unadvisable  with  respect  to  myself. 
I  believe  you  may  banish  your  fears.  The  information  J  will 
only  be  for  a  misdemeanour,  and  I  am  advised  that  no  jury, 
especially  in  these  times,  will  find  it.  I  suspect  the  channel 
through  which  you  have  your  intelligence.  It  will  be  carried 
on  coldly.  You  must  not  write  to  me  again ;  but  be  assured 
I  will  never  desert  you.  I  received  your  letters  regularly, 
but  it  was  impossible  to  answer  them  sooner.  You  shall  hear 
from  me  again  shortly 

*  The  printer  was  threatened  by  tbe  minister  with  a  prosecution  fot 
publishing  the  letter  of  Junius,  No.  33,  toI.  i.  249,  and  the  Court  of  King's 
Bench  was  actually  moved  on  his  behalf;  but  probably  for  the  reason  men* 
tioned  above,  the  threat  was  never  executed. 

f  See  Junius,  No.  33,  vol.  i.  p.  249,  note,  and  Letter  86. 

^  The  information  was  for  publishing  the  Letter  to  the  King,  Junius,  Nr^ 
S5,  for  the  particulars  of  whkh  see  the  author's  Preface,  %nd  note  appended 
10  ity  voL  i.  p.  94. 


28  PRIVATE  LETTERS  OF   JUNIUS. 

No.  19. 
(Private.) 
Sir,  Beginning  of  Febroary,  1770. 

WuEN  you  consider  to  what  excessive  enmities  I  may  be 
exposed,  you  will  not  wonder  at  my  caution.  I  really  have 
not  known  how  to  procure  your  last.  If  it  be  not  of  any  great 
moment  1  woulct  wish  you  to  recall  it.  If  it  be,  give  me  a 
hint.  If  your  aflair  should  come  to  a  trial  *,  and  you  should 
be  found  guilty,  you  will  then  let  me  know  what  expense  falls 
particularly  on  yourself;  for  I  understand  you  are  engaged 
with  other  proprietors.  Some  way  or  other  you  shall  be 
reimbursed.       But  seriously  and  bond  fide,   I  think  it  is 

impossible 

•       C. 


No.  20. 


About  February  14, 1770f . 

I  HAVE  carefully  perused  the  information  J.  It  is  so  loose 
and  ill  drawn,  that  I  am  pursuaded  Mr.  De  Grey  could  not 
have  had  a  hand  in  it.  Their  inserting  the  whole,  proves 
they  had  no  strong  passages  to  fix  on.  1  still  think  it  will 
not  be  tried.  If  it  should,  it  is  not  possible  for  a  jury  to  find 
you  guilty. 

*  For  the  trial  referred  to,  see  Appendix,  voL  i.  p.  471.  The  copy  of  the 
information  was  procured  in  Hilary  Term,  1770,  and  the  trial  took  place 
June  13  following.  The  costs  to  the  printer  in  defending  himself,  though 
ultimately  successfiil,  amounted  to  about  120^.,  a  somewhat  heavy  fine  for  a 
person  not  found  guilty. 

t  It  appears  that  this  and  the  preceding  note  were  undated  when  received, 
and  that  Woodfall,  or  his  editor,  inserted  the  dates  as  near  as  they  could  as- 
certain or  conjecture.  Junius  seems  not  to  have  had  any  fixed  rule ;  some- 
times the  day  is  mentioned,  sometimes  the  day  of  the  month,  and  frequently 
both.  Some,  both  of  his  private  and  public  letters,  appear  to  have 
been  sent  without  date,  and  the  day  of  the  publication,  or  of  receiving 
them,  to  have  been  inserted  by  the  printer.  These  irregularities  preclude  of 
obscure  any  nice  criticism  founded  on  the  dates  of  Junius's  Letters. — £i». 

t  The  information  here  referred  to  is  that  noticed  in  the  note  to  the  pr» 
•etUng  letter. 


to   MB.   H.   S.   WOODFALL.  .Q9 

No.  91 

Saturday,  March  17, 1770. 

lo-MOBEow  before  twelve  you  shall  have  a  Junim,  it  will  le 
absolutely  necessary  that  it  should  be  published  on  Monday. 

Would  it  be  possible  to  give  notice  of  it  to-night  or  to- 
morrow, by  a  dispersing  a  few  handbills  ?  Pray  do  whatever 
you  think  will  answei  this  purpose  best,  for  now  is  the 
crisiB*. 

C. 


No.  22. 


Sunday,  March  18, 1770. 
This  letter  is  written  wide,  and  I  suppose  will  not  fill  two 
columns.    For  God's  sake  let  it  appear  to-morrow.     I  hope 
you  received  my  note  of  yesterday. 

Lord  Chatham  is  determined  to  go  to  the  Hall  to  support 
the  Westminster  remonstrance  f.  I  have  no  doubt  that  we 
shall  conquer  them  at  last. 

C. 

*  The  letter  referred  to  is  Junius,  No.  87. 

f  Agreed  upon  at  a  general  meeting  of  the  electors  of  the  city  and  liberty 
of  Westminster,  assembled  in  Westminster  Hall,  March  28, 1770,  in  conse- 
quence of  their  petition  to  his  Majesty,  requesting  him  to  dissolve  the  Par- 
liament which  had  expelled  Mr.  Wilkes,  having  been  rejected.  The  fol- 
lowing is  a  copy  of  the  remonstrance  :— 

**  The  humble  address,  remonstnmce,  and  petition  of  the  electors  of  the 
dty  and  liberty  of  Westminster,  assembled  in  Westminster  Hall  the 
28th  day  of  March,  1770. 

'*  We,  your  Majesty's  most  dutifid  and  loyal  subjects,  the  electors,  of  the 
city  and  liberty  of  Westminster,  having  already  presented  our  humble^  but 
in^ectnal,  application  to  the  throne,  find  ourselves,  by  the  misconduct  of 
your  Majesty's  ministers,  in  confederacy  with  many  of  our  representatives, 
reduced  to  the  necessity  of  again  breaking  in  by  our  complaints  upon  your 
Majesty's  repose,  or  of  acquiescing  under  grievances  so  hiw  and  so  bxob- 
BKAHT,  that  none  but  those  who  patiently  submit  to  them  can  deserve  to 
mfier  them. 

**  By  the  same  teeret  and  vnha^if  influence  to  which  all  our  grievances 
have  been  originally  owing,  the  redress  of  those  grievances  has  been  now 
preveiited ;  and  ihe  grievances  themselves  have  been  repeatedly  confirmed  ; 
with  this  additional  circumstance  of  aggravation,  that  while  the  invaders  of 
our  rights  remain  the  directors  of  your  Majestj^s  councils,  the  defenders  of 
those  rights  have  been  dismissed  from  your  Majestjr's  service — ^your  Majesty 
having  been  advised  by  your  ministers  to  remove  firom  his  employment  for 
his  vote  in  Parliament^  the  highest  officer  of  the  law ;  because  his  prindples 


o 


so  PRIVA3E   LETTEES   OF  JtNlUS 

suited  ill  with  theirs^  and  his  pure  distribution  of  justice  Kith  their  corrupt 
«dniiiii:itration  of  it  in  the  House  of  Commons. 

"  We  beg  leave,  therefore,  again  to  represent  to  your  Majesty,  that  the 
House  of  Commons  have  struck  at  the  most  valuable  liberties  and  franchises 
nf  all  the  electors  of  Great  Britain ;  and  by  assuming  to  themselves  a  right 
of  choosing,  instead  of  receiving,  a  member  when  chosen,  by  transferring:  to 
vne  representative  what  belonged  to  the  constituent,  they  have  taken  of^ 
from  the  dignity,  and,  we  fear,  impaired  the  authority  of  Parliament  itself. 

*'  We  presume  again,  therefore,  humbly  to  implore  from  your  Majesty,  the 
only  remedies  which  are  any  way  proportioned  to  the  nature  of  the  evil : 
that  you  would  be  graciously  pleased  to  dismiss  for  ever  from  your  councils 
those  ministers  who  are  ill-suited  by  their  dispositions  to  preserve  the  prin- 
ciples of  a  free,  or  by  their  capacities  to  direct  the  councils  of  a  great  and 
mighty  kingdom ;  and  that  by  speedily  dissolving  the  present  Parliament, 
your  Majesty  wiU  show,  by  your  own  example,  and  by  their  dissolution,  that 
the  rights  of  your  people  are  to  be  inviolable,  and  that  you  will  never  neces- 
sitate so  many  injured,  and,  by  such  treatment,  exasperated,  subjects  to  con- 
tinue to  commit  the  care  6f  their  interests  to  those  from  whom  they  must 
withdraw  their  confidence;  to  repose  their  invaluable  privileges  in  the 
hands  of  those  who  have  sacrificed  them ;  and  their  trust  in  those  who  have 
betrayed  it. 

''  Your  subjects  look  up  with  satis&ction  to  the  powers  which  the  consti- 
tution has  vested  in  your  Majesty — for  it  is  upon  them  that  they  have  placed 
their  last  dependance,  and  they  trust  that  the  right  of  dissolving  Parlia- 
ments, which  has,  under  former  princes,  so  often  answered  the  purposes  of 
power,  may,  under  your  Majesty,  prove  an  happy  instrument  of  liberty. 

"  We  find  ourselves  compelled  to  urge  with  the  greater  importunity  this 
our  humble  but  earnest  application  to  the  throne,  as  every  day  seems  to  pro- 
duce the  confirmation  of  some  old,  or  to  threaten  the  introduction  of  some 
new  injury.  We  have  the  strongest  reason  to  apprehend  that  the  usurpation 
begun  by  the  House  of  Conunons  upon  the  right  of  electing,  may  be  extended 
to  the  right  of  petitioning ;  and  that,  under  the  pretence  of  restraining  the 
abuse  of  this  right,  it  is  meant  to  bring  into  disrepute,  and  to  intimidate  us 
from  the  exercise  of  the  right  itself. 

**  But  whatever  may  be  the  purposes  of  others,  your  Majesty  hath,  in  your 
answer  to  the  city  of  London,  most  graciously  declared  iJuU  you  are  always 
ready  to  receive  the  requests,  avid  to  listen  to  the  complaints  qf  your  subjects. 
Tour  Majesty  condescends  likewise  to  esteem  it  a  duty  to  secure  to  them  the 
free  enjoyment  of  those  rights  which  your  family  v>ere  call^  to  defend, 

"  We  rely,  therefore,  upon  the  Boyal  word  thus  given,  that  our  grievances 
will  meet  with  full  redress,  and  our  complaints  with  the  most  favourable  in- 
terpretation ;  that  your  Majesty  will  never  consider  the  arraignment  of  your 
ministers  as  a  disrespect  to  your  person — a  charge  confined,  by  the  reiy 
terras  of  it,  to  this  House  of  Commons,  as  injurious  to  Parliament  at  huge 
(the  constitution  of  which  we  admire,  and  the  abuse  of  which  is  the  very 
thing  we  lament) ;  or  a  request  for  the  dissolution  of  Parliament,  which  yoor 
subjects  have  a  right  to  make,  and  your  Majesty  to  grant,  as  irreeonciUabU 
to  the  principles  tf  the  conslUviion," 

Jmuns  ftt  this  period  was  busy  and  warm  in  the  sause.     The  Westmiii* 


TO   MR     H     8     WOODFALL  31 

No.  23. 

(Private.)  Friday  Morning,  October  19,  1770. 

By  your  affected  silence  *,  you  encourage  an  idle  opinion  that 
I.  am  the  author  of  the  Whigj^y  &c.,  though  you  very  weli 

ster  electors  met  on  the  28th,  unanimously  agreed  to  a  remonstrance,  which, 
in  half  an  hour  after,  was  -presented  to  the  King.  But  the  whule  a£&ir  was 
an  entire  fedlnre :  Chatham  did  not  attend,  remaining  quietly  at  Hayes  on 
his  usual  plea  of  the  gout,  trusting  to  Mr.  Galcraft  to  report  proceedings,  and 
who  informed  him  next  day  that  the  Westminster  remonstrance  was  carried 
up  "  poorly  attended  and  still  worse  received."  Previously  to  the  demon- 
stration, the  Lord  Mayor  had  tried  to  secure  the  hetirty  co-operation  of  the 
Whig  grandees  by  a  splendid  entertainment  at  the  Mansion  House ;  but  they 
did  nothing  beyond  extolling  the  rich  wines  and  viands  of  Beckford.  In 
consequence  the  reformers  were  dissatisfied,  and  Calcraft,  in  a  postscript,  tells 
Chatham  that  Alderman  Sawbridge  had  just  called,  informing  him  that  the 
Lord  Mayor  and  leading  people  of  Middlesex  ''  are  so  offended  by  the  half 
support  givm  to  the  city  remonstrance  and  total  neglect  of  that  for  West^ 
minster  **  that  they  did  not  mean  to  remonstrate  further. 

Jnnius's  note  to  Wood&ll  is  dated  March  18,  and  on  the  same  day  Mr. 
Calcraft  addressed  the  subjoined  to  Earl  Temple : — 
**  Mt  dbak  Lord, 

"  Jnst  as  your  Lordship  left  me,  a  friend  came  in  who  says  he  hears  a 
strong  report  that  they  [the  ministers]  disagree  amongst  themselves,  see  the 
difficulties  they  may  be  involved  in,  and  have  resolved  not  to  proceed  [in 
the  House  of  Commons]  on  the  remonstrance  to-morrow.  Lord  Chatham's 
proposal  about  Westminster  [attending  the  meeting,  as  Junius  told  Woodfedl] 
adds  to  their  alarm.  The  greatest  person  requires  cordials." — Chatham  Cot' 
retpondence,  vol.  iii.  p.  430. 

The  editors  ask,  ''May  not  this  'friend'  have  been  Sir  Philip  Francis  V* — 
3d. 


•  "  The  printer  re«Uy  did  not  avfboi  a  silence  on  a  osrtats  oooasion. 
with  a  view  of  encouraging  his  readers  or  correspondents  in  an  idle  opinion  : 
the  motives  for  his  conduct  were,  the  fear  of  being  thought  impertinent  by 
declaring  (without  direction)  what  he  knew ;  and  the  probability  of  render- 
ing himself  liable  to  incur  the  displeasure  of  either  of  those  who  were  pleased 
to  &vour  him  with  their  correspondence," — Answer  to  CorrespofidetUSf  Oct, 
26, 1770. 

f  This  letter  was  printed  in  the  Public  Advertiser  under  the  signature  of 
"  A  Whig  and  an  Englishman,"  Oct.  11, 1770,  and  refers  chiefly  to  the 
American  Stamp  Act,  and  the  opinion  of  Lord  Chatham,  whom  the  author 
pan^yrised  in  very  warm  terms.  The  same  writer  had  already  published 
several  other  letters  in  the  same  name;  and  the  printer,  in  compliance  with 
the  request  of  Junius,  gave  the  following  notice : — 

«  October  20. 

"  The  printer  thinks  it  his  duty  to  declare,  that  the  letters  which  have 
appeared  in  this  paper  under  the  signature  of  'A  Whig  and  an  Englishman/ 
were  not  written  by  the  author  of  those  signed  Junius." 


89  PRIVATE   LETIERS   OF  JUNIUS 

know  the  contrary.    I  neither  admire  the  writer  noi  his  idol 
I  hope  jou  will  soon  set  this  matter  right. 

0. 


Na  24. 


Sib,  Monday  Evening,  NoTember  12, 1770. 

The  inclosed  *,  though  hegun  within  these  few  days,  has  been 
greatly  laboured.  It  is  very  correctly  copied,  and  I  beg  you 
will  take  care  that  it  be  literally  printed  as  it  stands.  I  don't 
think  you  run  the  least  risque.  We  have  got  the  rascal 
down;'  let  us  strangle  him  if  it  be  possible.  This  paper 
should  properly  have  appeared  to-morrow,  but  I  could  not 
compass  it,  so  let  it  be  announced  to-morrow,  and  printed 
Wednesday.  If  you  should  have  any  fears,  I  entreat  you  to 
send  it  early  enough  to  Miller  to  appear  to-morrow  night  in 
the  London  Evening  Post  In  that  case,  you  will  oblige  me 
by  informing  the  public  to-morrow,  in  your  own  paper,  that 
a  real  Junius  will  appear  at  night  in  the  London,  Miller,  I 
am  sure,  vnll  have  no  scruples. 

Lord  Mansfield  has  thrown  the  ministry  into  confusion  by 
suddenly  resigning  the  office  of  Speaker  of  the  House  of 
Lords. 


No.  25. 


Wednegday  Night,  November  21, 1770  f. 
I  SHALL  be  very  slad  to  hear  from  your  friend  at  Guildhall. 
You  may,  if  you  mink  proper,  give  my  compliments  to  him, 
and  tell  him,  if  it  be  possible,  I  will  make  use  of  any  mate- 
rials he  gives  me.  I  will  never  rest  till  I  have  destroyed  or 
expelled  that  wretch.  I  wish  you  joy  of  yesterday.  The 
fellow  truckles  already  |. 

a 

*  JuniiiB  to  the  Bight  Hon.  Lord  Manifield,  Letter  41,  toL  L  p.  Z05w 
f  On  the  outside  of  thi»  note  was  written,  **  The  inclosed  strikes  deeper 

tbm  yoa  may  imagine.    0."    The  letter  will  be  foimd  in  thie  MisfrilanwwM 

Collection,  No.  78,  subscribed  TestieulMt* 
t  In  aUnsion  to  the  unanimous  judgment  of  the  Conrt  of  King^s  Benek^ 

<m  the  verdict  for  printing  the  Letttf  to  the  King,  giTen  Nor.  20th,  1770« 

by  which  Lord  Mansfield  lost  bis  object^  and  the  printer  was  gzanted  %  new 

tiiaL 


TO   HB.   H.   8.   WOODFALL.  33 


No.  26.     , 

Friday,  1  o'Clock,  December  7,  1770, 

I  WISH  it  were  possible  for  you  to  print  the  inclosed  to- 
morrow *.  Observe  the  Italics  strictly  where  .they  are  marked. 
Why  don*t  I  hear  from  Guildhall  ?  If  he  trifles  with  me,  be 
shall  hear  of  itf. 

0. 


No.  27. 
Sib,  January  2,  1771. 

I  HAVE  received  your  mysterious  epistle.  I  dare  say  a  letter 
may  safely  be  left  at  the  same  place ;  but  you  may  change 
the  direction  to  Mr.  John  Fretly.     You  need  not  advertise  it. 

Yours, 

C. 


No.  28. 


January  16,  1771. 
You  may  assure  the  public  that  a  squadron  of  four  ships  of 
the  line  is  ordered  to  be  got  ready  with  all  possible  expedition 
for  the  £ast  Indies.  It  is  to  be  commanded  bv  Oommodore 
Spry.  Without  regarding  the  language  of  ignorant  or  inte- 
rested people,  depend  upon  the  assurance  i  give  you  that 
every  man  in  administration  looks  upon  war  as  inevitable  I. 

*  The  paper  referred  to  is  Miscellaneou?  Letter,  No.  79,  signed  Domitidn^ 
and  was  printed  as  requested. 

-h  The  allusion  is  tu  a  communication  between  the  writer  and  Mr.  Wilkes, 
which  bad  been  promised  by  the  latter,  but  had  not  been  at  this  time  received. 

X  Inserted  in  the  Public  Advertiser y  January  17,  nearly  in  the  same 
words.  The  predicted  war,  however,  did  not  follow,  but  the  preparation 
was  actually  made,  in  the  full  belief,  on  the  part  of  the  cabinet  themselves,  that 
they  would  be  compelled  to  go  to  war  b}*  the  existing  temper  of  the  people, 
irritated  by  the  dishonourable  negotiation  concerning  the  Spanish  seizure  of 
Falkland  Islands,  and  that  they  should  be  accused  of  indolence,  and  even 
cowardice,  by  the  approaching  Parliament.  The  session  opened  only  four 
days  afterwards,  and  the  question  of  hostilities  was  so  much  upon  a  balance, 
that  in  the  Lower  House  not  fewer  than  1 59  members  divided  against  the 
minister,  upon  the  address  of  thanks  and  approbation. 

It  has  been  surmised  that  the  ministers  were  better  informed  than  to  »pect 
srar,  notwithstanding  their  preparations,  but  kept  up  the  delusion  for  str  dk> 

VOL.  IL  n 


34  PRIVATE  LETTERS  OF  JUNIV» 


No.  i29. 

Thursday,  January  31,  1771. 

The  paper  is  extremely  well  printed,  and  has  a  great  effect*. 
It  is  of  the  utmost  importance  to  the  public  cause  that  the 
doors  of  the  House  of  Lords  should  be  opened  on  Tuesday  next. 
Perhaps  the  following  may  help  to  shame  them  into  it. 

We  hear  that  the  ministry  intend  to  move  for  opening  the 
doors  of  both  Houses  of  Parliament  on  Tuesday  next,  in  the 
usual  manner,  being  desirous  that  the  nation  should  be  exactly 
informed  of  their  whole  conduct  in  the  business  of  Falkland 
Island. 

(Next  Day.) 

The  nation  expect  that  on  Tuesday  next,  at  least,  both 
Houses  will  be  open  as  usual;  otherwise  there  will  be  too 
much  reason  to  suspect  that  the  proceedings  of  the  ministry 
have  been  such  as  will  not  bear  a  public  discussion. 

We  hear  that  the  ministry  intend  to  move  that  no  gentle- 
man may  be  refused  admittance  into  either  House  on  Tuesday 
next.  Lord  North  in  particular  thinks  it  touches  his  cha> 
racter  to  have  no  part  of  his  conduct  concealed  from  the 
nation. 

The  resolution  of  the  ministry  to  move  for  opening  both 
Houses  on  Tuesday  next  does  them  great  honour.  If  they 
were  to  do  otherwise,  it  would  raise  and  justify  suspicions 
very  disadvantageous  to  their  own  reputation,  and  to  the 
King's  honour.    Prav  keep  it  upf. 

C. 

i'obbing.  Colonel  Bane  said,  **  The  nation  is  a  prey  to  stock-jobbers.  A 
French  secretary,  being  in  your  secrets,  has  ntade  near  half  a  million  by 
gaming  in  your  funds;  and  some  of  the  highest  among  yourselves  have  been 
deeply  concerned  in  the  same  traffic.'*  Whether  Junius  was  knave  or  dupe, 
or  merely  reported  that  which  he  had  heard  on  what  he  conceived  tmtt- 
worihy  iiuthority,  is  more  than  we  can  decide. — Ed. 

*  It  refers  to  Junius.  No.  42.  For  the  nature  of  the  subject  alluded  to, 
see  the  Letter  and  tae  notes  subjoined  to  it,  vol.  i.  p.  816;  as  &\%Ofpoti,  Mi»* 
eellaneous  Letter,  No.  38,  and  the  note  in  explanation. 

T  These  aadv^ijlappers  failed  of  tiie  intended  effect,  and  the  anzie^  of 
J  unins  Ij  be  present  in  the  Lords  on  Tuesday  was  not  gratified.  Loid 
Gbatham  lutde  his  anticipated  motion  relative  to  the  Falkland  Islani%  and  ■ 


TO   int.   H.   8.   W0a9FALL.  35 


No.  30. 


Snty  Tuesday  Noon,  FebTuary  5, 1771. 

I  DID  Dot  receive  your  letter  until  this  day.     I  shall  be  very 
glad  to  hear  what  you  have  to  communicate. 

C. 
You  need  not  advertise  any  notice. 


No.  31. 

(Private.) 

Monday,  February  11, 1771. 
OuB   correspondence  is  attended  with  difficulties.      Yet   I 
should  be  glad  to  see  tho  paper  you  mention.     Let  it  bo  left 
to-morrow  witliout  further  notice,     1  am  seriously  of  opinion 

that  it  will  all  end  in  smoke  i<. 

C. 


No.  32. 

Mondaj',  February  18,  1771. 
If  you  are  not  grown  too  ministerial  in  your  politics,  I  shall 
hope  to  see  the  inclosed  announced  to-morrow,  and  published 
on  Wednesday!. 

long  debate  ensued,  of  which  no  traces  have  been  preserved,  as  strangen 
were  rigidly  excluded,  and  his  Lordship's  motion  negatived  by  sixty-nine 
against  twenty-two.  But  the  important  conclusion  already  intimate.i, 
that  Junius  was  not  a  member  of  parliament,  may  be  drawn  from  liis 
desire  to  have  open  doors.  Had  he  been  a  member  of  either  house  he  would 
have  had  the  privilege  of  entrie  during  the  debate,  and  need  not  have  been 
anxious  about  the  admission  of  strangers.  What  a  host  of  claimants  are  dis- 
posed of  by  this  single  consideration  !  Chatham,  Dunning,  Burke,  Lord 
George  Sackville,  Colonel  Barre,  Lord  Shelbume,  Single  Speech  Hamilton, 
with  numerous  others,  could  not  have  been  Junius,  since  all  these  were 
members  of  one  or  the  other  house  of  parliament.  But  till  recently  nothing 
less  than  a  peer  or  M.P.  was  deemed  high  or  good  enough  to  be  Junius. — En. 

*  In  reference  to  a  note  from  the  Attorney-General  for  publishing  Lettei 
of  Junius,  No.  42,  but  which  was  never  further  proceeded  upon. 

■f*  This  note  accompanied  Vindex,  No.  90,  of  the  Miscelluuecius  Letters. 
The  printer  had  some  scruples  about  publishing  the  whole  of  it ;  and  in  the 
PtMie  Advertiser  of  Feb.  20  gave  the  usud  mark,  ''A  Letter,"  that  • 
private  letter  was  in  waiting  upon  this  subject.  In  consequence  of  which  thi 
ivbaequent  note  was  received,  dated  Feb.  21. 

D  3 


86  PKIVATC   LBTTEBS   OF  JUNIUS 


No.  8H 

Sir,  Febniary  21,  1771. 

It  will  be  very  diflScult,  if  not  impracticable,  for  me  to  get 
your  note.  I  presume  it  relates  to  Vindea*,  I  leave  it  to 
you  to  alter  or  omit  as  you  think  proper; — or  bum  it.  I 
think  the  argument  about  Gibraltar f,  &c.,  is  too  good  to  be 
lost.      As  to  the  satirical  part,  I  must  tell   you  (and  with 

positive  certainty)  that  our  gracious  is  as  callous  as 

stockfish  to  everything  but  the  reproach  of  cowardice.  That 
alone  is  able  to  set  the  humours  afloat.  After  a  paper  of  that 
kind  he  won't  eat  meat  for  a  week  J. 

You  may  rely  upon  *t  the  ministry  are  sick  of  prosecu- 
tions. Those  against  Junius  cost  the  Treasury  above  six 
thousand  pounds,  and  after  all  they  got  nothing  but  disgrace. 
After  the  paper  you  have  printed  to-day  (signed  Brutus  §  ),  one 

*  The  following  is  a  copy  of  the  letter  which  Mr.  Woodfall  addressed  to 
the  author  under  the  feigned  name  of  Mr.  John  Fretly,  and  directed  it  to 
him  at  the  New  Exchange  Coffee  House  in  the  Strand. 

"Sir, 
''  To  have  deserved  any  portion  of  your  good  opinion  affords  me  no  small 
degree  of  satisfaction — to  preserve  it  shall  be  my  constant  endeavour. 
Always  willing  to  oblige  you  as  much  as  lies  in  my  power,  I,  with  great 
avidit}',  open  your  letters ;  and  sometimes  without  reading  the  contents,  pro- 
mise the  publication.  Such  is  my  present  situation,  and  I  hope  you  will  not 
be  offended  at  my  declining  to  publish  your  letter,  as  I  am  convinced  the 
subject  of  it  must,  if  I  was  to  insert  it,  render  me  liable  to  very  severe  re- 
prehension. That  I  am  not  grown  too  ministerial  in  my  politics  every  day's 
paper  will,  I  hope,  sufficiently  evince;  though  1  rather  hope  some  little  regard 
to  prudence  will  not  by  you  be  deemed  sqneamishness,  or  tend  to  lessen  nie  in 
your  opinion,  as  I  shsdl  ever  think  myself  your 

"  Much  obliged  humble  Servant, 
"  Feb.  19, 1771.  "  Henry  Sampson  Woodfall. 

"  PS.  I  shall  wait  your  directions  what  to  do  with  the  paper  in  que«tion, 
as  I  did  not  choose  to  trust  it  under  cover  till  I  was  further  acquainted  with 
vour  pleasure." 

t  For  the  explanation  of  this  passage,  see  Miscellaneous  Letter  90,  signed 
]  'iad*>x. 

t  See  vol.  i.  p.  288,  note  f. 

§  This  letter  was  addressed  to  Lord  North,  and,  as  it  is  short,  it  is  here  tran- 
scribed, in  proof  that  Junius  was  not  severe  in  his  opinion  of  it,  nor  sin- 
gularly acrimonious  in  the  phraseology  originally  adopted  by  himself. 

<'  to  the  right  hon.  lord  north. 
"Mt  Lord, 
"  I  aever  address  youi  Lordship  but  '  feel  the  utmost  horror  and  iudigua- 


TO   MR     H.    S.    WOODFAIX.  37 

fPDuld  think  you  feared  nothing.  For  ray  OTvn  part,  I  can  very 
rraly  assure  you  that  nothing  would  afflict  me  more  than  to 
have  drawn  you  into  a  personal  danger,  because  it  admits  of 

« 

tion;  for  I  consider  you  as  a  man  totally  regardless  of  your  o^'^  honour  and 
the  welfare  of  your  country. 

**  The  severiiy  of  a  writer  cannot  he  suppolsed  to  give  your  Lordship  any 
uneasiness.  A  minister  whose  schemes  extend  only  to  the  exigencies  of  a 
year  but  little  regards  his  present  or  future  reputation ;  yet  it  is  a  duty  we 
owe  to  the  public  to  trace  out  and  expose  the  villain,  wherever  we  can  per- 
ceive him  working  up  the  ruin  of  his  country. 

**  The  choice  of  your  friends  is  an  eminent  indication  of  your  abilities  and 
the  blackness  of  your  heart 

"  Nam,  quicumq;  impudiau,  adulter,  ganeo,  aUa,  manu,  ventre^  bona 
patria  UuseravU,  ^ique  aiiefium  aa  grande  confiavit,  immediately  flies  into 
your  arms,  and  reimburses  himself  with  the  plunder  of  his  country. 

"  Such  are  the  guardiiuis  of  our  liberties  and  law:  such  aie  the  men  to 
whom  our  constitution  is  entrusted :  and  cannot  we  then  withovit  any  parti- 
cular discernment,  or  any  remarkable  acuteness  of  observation,  tntce  out  the 
origin  of  our  present  diMontents? 

**  It  would  be  needless  to  follow  you  through  that  maze  of  villany  in  which 
you  have  long  delighted  to  wander;  I  shall  only  attack  those  measures  which 
occur  to  our  more  immediate  consideration. 

**  In  what  manner  can  you  answer  to  your  King  for  the  scandalous  prostitu- 
tion of  his  crown  and  himself? 

"  In  what  manner  can  you  answer  to  your  country  for  the  total  disregard 
of  its  wel&re  and  dignity! 

"  After  all  these  formidable  preparations;  after  all  this  expensive  armament, 
you  have  made  shift  to  patch  up  a  temporary  ignominious  compromise,  at  the 
trifling  expense  of  about  three  millions  and  the  British  honour. 

"  I  ou  imagine  yourself  sufficiently  secured  in  the  pursuit  of  your  in&mous 
intentions,  and  in  the  practice  of  every  illegal  and  unconstitutional  measure, 
by  the  countenance  of  the  King.  Bely  not  too  much  on  that  protection.  His 
Majesty  must  not  be  suffered,  through  a  blind  and  ridiculous  attachment  to 
an  individual,  or  through  a  filial  obedience  which  then  becomes  criminal,  to 
ruin  and  subvert  his  in£Eituated  kingdoms. 

''  Your  late  acquisition  of  Lord  Suffolk  wil}  not  do  you  much  honour :  he 
it  of  the  same  stamp  with  the  rest  of  your  adherents.  His  Lordship  has 
given  the  world  a  very  strong  impression  of  his  character  and  the  disposition 
of  his  heart,  by  deserting  his  principal,  and  the  Ciiuse  in  which  he  originally 
embarked,  and  by  betraying  that  friendship  which  in  the  more  early  and 
virtuous  time  of  his  life  he  had  contracted.  His  former  party  need  not 
regret  the  loss  of  him,  for  they  are  by  his  desertion  disencumbered  of  a 


*( 


But  I  will  now  leave  you,  my  Lord,  to  that  mature  insensibility  which  is 
only  to  be  acquired  by  a  steady  perseverance  in  infamy. 

"  Every  principle  of  conscience  you  have  lung  ago  been  hardy  enough  to  dis- 
card. There  has  not  been  an  action  in  the  last  two  years  of  your  life  but 
what  separately  deserves  imprisonment.  The  time  may  come;  and  remem* 
ixT,  my  Lord,  there  is  a  very  short  period  between  a  minister's  imprisonment 
%ud  his  grave. — Bbutus." 


88  PRTTATE   LSlTLRS   OF   CwNIUR 

no  recompense.  A  little  expense  is  not  to  be  regarded,  and 
I  hope  these  papers  have  reimbursed  you.  I  never  will  send 
you  anything  that  I  think  dangerous,  but  the  risque*  is  yours, 

and  you  must  determine  for  yourself. 

G» 
All  the  above  is  private. 


No.  34. 


Friday  Noon,  April  19,  1771. 

I  HOPE  you  will  approve  of  announcing  the  enclosed  Junius 
to-morrow t,  and  publishing  it  on  Monday.  If,  for  any  reasons 
that  do  not  occur  to  me,  you  should  think  it  unadvisaWe  U>^ 
print  it  as  it  stands,  I  must  entreat  the  favour  of  you  to  trans- 
mit it  to  Bingleyl,  and  satisfy  him  that  it  is  a  real  Junius, 
worth  a  North  Briton  Extraordinary.  It  will  be  impossible 
for  me  to  have  an  opportunity  of  altering  any  part  of  it 

1  am,  very  truly,  your  Friend, 

C. 


No.  35. 

Thursday,  June  20,  1771. 

I  AM  strangely  partial  to  the  enclosed §.     It  is  tinished  with 

the  utmost  care.     If  I  find  myself  mistaken  in  my  judgment 

of  this  paper,  1  positively  will  never  write  again. 

C. 

Let  it  be  announced  to-morrow,  Juuius  to  the  Duke  of 
Grafton  for  Saturday. 

1  think  Wilkes  has  closed  well.  1  hope  he  will  keep  hi« 
resolution  not  to  write  any  more||. 

•   This  peculiarity  of  spelling  the  word  risk  is  the  author's. 

f  Junius,  Letter  44,  which  was  printed  as  requested. 

X  The  printer  of  the  North  BiiUm, 

§  Junius,  No.  49,  to  the  Duke  of  Grafton. 

'  II  In  allusion  to  the  dispute  between  Mr.  Wilkes  and  Mr.  Home,  oon- 
ducted  with  great  acrimony,  till  the  fonnt>r  resolved,  as  here  advised,  not  to 
answer  atter  a  dehnite  period  any  additional  letters,  in  consequence  of  the 
total  occupation  of  his  time  in  bid  canvass  for  the  oHice  of  sherilF  of  London, 
for  which  he  was  then  a  candidate,  and  to  which  situation  he  ultimately  au«' 


10   US.   H.   S.    WOOOFALL.  39 

No.  36. 

July  16, 1771. 
To  prevent  any  unfair  use  being  made  of  the  ooclosed,  I 
3&treat  you  to  keep  a  copy  of  it.     Then  seal  and  deliver  it  to 
Mr.  Home.     I  presume  you  know  where  he  is  to  be  found*. 

C. 


No.  87 


August  18, 1771. 
Pray  make  an  erratum  for  tdtimate  in  the  paragraph  about 
the  Duke  of  Grafton,  it  should  be  intimate.    The  rest  is  very 
correct f.     If  Mr.  Home  answers  this  letter  handsomely  and 
in  point,  he  shall  be  my  great  Apollo. 


No.  38. 


Wednesday  Noon,  September  25,  1771. 

The  enclosed  is  of  such  importance,  so  very  material,  that  it 
must  be  given  to  the  public  immediately  |. 

ceeded.     The  following  is  the  conclusion  of  the  letter  here  spoken  of,  which 
was  of  course,  addressed  to  Mr.  Home. 

**  Whether  you  proceed,  Sir,  to  a  thirteenth  or  a  thirtieth  letter  is  to  me  a 
matter  of  the  most  entire  indifference.  Tou  will  no  longer  have  me  your 
correspondent.  All  the  efforts  of  your  malice  and  rancour  cannot  give  me  a 
moment's  disquietude.  They  will  only  torment  your  own  breast.  I  am 
wholly  indifferent  about  your  sentiments  of  me,  happy  in  the  favourable 
opinion  of  many  valuable  friends  in  the  most  honourable  connections,  both 
public  and  private,  and  in  the  prospect  of  rendering  myself  eminently  useful 
to  my  country.  Formerly  in  exile,  when  I  was  uH>e  patriAque  extorris,  and 
torn  from  every  sacred  tie  of  friendship,  I  have  moistened  my  breiid  with  my 
tears.  The  rest  of  my  life  I  hope  to  enjoy  my  morsel  at  home  in  peace  and 
cheerfulness,  among  those  I  love  and  honour,  far  from  the  malignant  eye  of 
the  false  friend  and  the  insidious  hypocrite. 

**  I  am.  Sir,  your  humble  Servant, 

**  John  Wilkes,** 

*  Note  enclosing  Junius*!  Letter  to  the  Bev.  Mr.  Home,  No.  52,  vol.  i. 
p.  864. 

■f*  Junius,  Letter  54,  vol.  i.  p.  887.  This  letter  appeared  on  the  13th  of 
August,  1771.  though  in  the  author's  edition  it  is  by  mistake  dated  thel5tii. 

X  The  Letter  referred  to  is  Junius,  No.  57,  and  was  printed  in  theP<uMif 
Advertiser,  Saturday,  Sept.  28,  1771. 


40  PUIVATE    LF/ITERS    OF  JUNIUS 

I  will  not  advise  ;  though  I  think  you  perfectly  8<ife :  all 
I  say  IS  that  I  rely  upon  your  care  to  have  it  printed  eltlier 
to-niorrow  in  your  own  paper,  or  to-night  in  the  PacqueU 

I  have  not  been  able  to  get  youre  from  that  place,  but  you 
shall  hear  from  me  soon. 


No.  89. 

About  November  5,  1771. 

YouB  reasons  are  very  just  about  printing  the  Prefkce,  &c. 
It  is  your  own  affair.  Do  whatever  you  think  proper.  I  aiy 
convinced  the  book  will  sell,  and  I  suppose  will  make  two 
volumes — ^the  type  might  be  one  size  larger  than  Wheble's  *. 
But  of  all  this  you  are  the  best  judge.  I  think  you  should 
give  money  to  the  waiters  at  that  place  to  make  them  more 
attentive  t.     The  notes  should  be  in  a  smaller  type. 

Pray  find  out,  if  you  can,  upon  what  day  the  late  Duke  of 
Bedford  was  flogged  on  the  course  at  Lichfield  by  Mr.  Hes- 
ton  Homphreyl. 


No.  40. 

Friday,  November  8, 1771. 
The  above  to  that  Scotchman  should  be  printed  conspicuously 
to-morrow  §.  At  last  I  have  concluded  my  great  work,  and  T 
assure  you  with  no  small  labour.  I  would  have  you  begin  to 
advertise  immediately,  and  publish  before  the  meeting  of 
parliament.  Let  all  my  papers  in  defence  of  Junius  be  in 
8erted||.  I  shall  now  supply  you  very  fast  with  copy  and 
notes.  The  paper  and  type  should  at  least  be  as  good  as 
Wheble*s.  You  must  correct  the  press  yourself,  but  I  should 
be  glad  to  see  corrected  proofs  of  the  two  first  sheets.  Show 
the  Dedication  and  Preface  to  Mr.  Wilkes,  and  if  he  has  any 

*  The  present  proprietor  and  publisher  of  the  County  Ckrorhicle,  who  took 
a  conspieaous  part  in  the  dispute  with  the  House  of  Commons  respecting  the 
publication  of  their  debates,  an  account  of  which  is  in  the  Miscellaneous  Letters 

f  A  coffee-house  at  which  letters,  &c.,  were  left  for  Junius. 

X  Junius,  Letter  28,  vol.  i.  p.  214,  note. 

§  Junius,  No.  66,  vol.  i.  p.  441. 

11  The  Letters  signed  Philo^unuist :  those  numbered  63  and  64,  v i«  ths 
vxtracts  from  ^}^^  Letters  tn  the  Support  rs  of  the  Bill  of  Kighti. 


TO   MR.   H.   S.   VOODFAIX.  4 1 

tnateriai  objection,  let  me  know.     I  Bay  material  because  of 
the  difficulty  of  getting  your  letters. 

C. 
(Secret.) 
Beware  of  David  Garrick*.    He  was  sent  to  pump  you,  and 
went  directly  to  Richmond  to  tell  the  King  I  should  write  no 
more.     The  Dedication  must  stand  first. 


No.  41 

TO  KB.   DAVID   GABBICK 

NoTeraber  10,  1771. 
I  AM  very  exactly  informed  of  your  impertinent  inquiries,  and 
of  the  information  you  so  busily  sent  to  Kichmond,  and  with. 

*  Garrick  had  received  a  letter  from  Woodfall,  just  before  the  above  note 
of  Junius  was  sent  to  the  printer,  in  which  Garrick  was  told,  in  confidence, 
that  there  were  some  doubts  whether  Junius  would  continue  to  write 
much  longer,  (htnickflew  with  the  intelligence  to  Mr.  Ramus,  one  of  the 
pages  to  the  Ein^,  who  immediately  conveyed  it  to  his  Majesty,  at  that 
time  .residing  at  Bichinond,  and  from  the  peculiar  sources  of  ivformaiion 
that  were  open  to  this  extraordinary  writer,  Junius  was  apprized  of  the  whole 
transaction  on  the  ensuing  morning,  and  wrote  the  above  postscript,  and  the 
letter  that  follows  it,  in  consequence. 


Both  text  and  commentary  in  this  instance  are  grievously  wrong. 
First,  as  to  the  text.  From  a  letter  of  Ghirrick,  which  has  been  inserted 
at  the  end  of  No.  43,  it  will  be  seen  that  Garrick  neither  sent  nor  went  to 
pump  Woodfiill.  but  that  the  communication  of  the  latter  to  him  was  inciden- 
tal and  spontaneous.  Second,  that  he  neither  '*  went  directly  to  Bichmond 
to  tell  the  King,"  nor  visited  Bichmond  at  all ;  but,  having  occasion  to  write 
to  Richmond  on  the  business  of  the  theatre,  he  mentioned,  as  a  piece  of  news, 
6S  he  did  to  other  of  his  correspondents,  that  Junius  would  write  no  more. 
On  being  better  informed  by  Woodfall,  Junius  corrects  his  first  error  in  his 
next  note  by  saying  Garrick  sent  in  lieu  of  went  to  Bichmond.  But  in  the 
same  note  (No.  41)  he  fiftlls  into  a  third  error  in  accusing  Grarrick  of  "imperti- 
nent xnquirits"  which  he  also  corrects  in  No.  48,  by  directing  Woodfall  to 
substitute  "  impertinent  practices.** 

Dr.  Good,  from  a  loye  of  the  decorative,  has  expanded  into  poetical 
licence.  I>r.  GK)od,  not  content  with  the  prosaic  errors  of  Junius, 
that  Garrick  either  sent  or  weni  to  Bichmond,  says  he  **flew  with  the  in- 
telligence "  to  Ramus,  who  immediately  conveyed  it  to  the  king.  Next  he 
telU  us  that  Junius  was  apprized  of  the  actor's  flight  on  the  *^  ensuing  morn- 
ing," but  Junius  says,  "next  day;"  all  which  is  intended  by  the  doctor  to 
heighten  the  mystery  of  "  the  extraordinary  writer,"  and  to  magnify  the  im* 
^rtanoe  and  promptitude  of  his  peculiar  sources  of  icfonnation. — Kd. 


43  PRIVATE   LETTEKS   OF  JONIUS 

what  triumph  and  exultation  it  ixas  received.  I  knew  everji 
particular  of  it  the  next  day.  Now  mark  me,  vagabond. 
Keep  to  your  pantomimes,  or  be  assured  you  shall  hear  of  it. 
Meddle  no  more,  thou  busy  informer! — It  is  in  my  power  to 
make  you  curse  the  hour  in  which  you  dared  to  interfere  with 

JUNIUS*. 

*  Mr.  Gkrrick  h:id,  before  this  period,  been  threatened  for  his  supposed 
political  bias  to  the  court,  as  will  appear  from  a  charge  which  Mr.  Home 
brought  forward  against  Mr.  Wilkes,  during  the  personal  altercation  which 
took  place  between  them  in  the  months  of  May  and  June  preceding  the 
date  of  this  letter,  and  which  is  more  particularly  noticed  in  the  note  to 
Junius,  Letter  52,  vol.  i.  p.  365.     Mr.  Home's  accusation  is  as  follows: — 

**  Whilst  Mr.  Wilkes  was  in  the  King's  Bench,  he  sent  a  threatening  me»* 
sage  to  Mr.  Garrick  to  forbid  his  playing  the  part  of  IJcutingg  in  the  tragedy 
oi  Jane  Shore;  on  account  of  some  lines  in*  that  play  which  Mr.  Wilkes 
thought  applicable  to  his  own  situation.  Mr.  Qarrick  complained  exceed- 
ingly of  the  cruelty  of  such  an  interdict,  and  wished  to  be  permitted  tc  pro- 
ceed  in  his  endeavours  to  pleiise  the  public  in  the  common  course  of  his  pro- 
fession.  The  patriot  was  inexorable  ;  and  Mr.  Gkirrick  has  not  appeared  in 
that  character  since.  The  Lord  Chamberlain's  control  by  Act  of  Parliament 
over  the  pleasures  of  the  public  is  exercised  only  over  new  plays." 

To  this  charge  Mr.  Wilkes  replied  as  foliowi»,  offering  several  justly 
merited  compliments  to  the  hitherto  unrivalled  genius  of  Mr.  Garnck. 

"to   the   rev.   MR.    HORNE. 

"  Sir,  '•  Prince's  Court,  Thursday,  June  6,  1771. 

"  Tour  ninth  letter  has  relieved  me  not  a  little  by  taking  me  to  the  theatre, 
and  recalling  to  my  delighted  remembiuice  the  amazing  powers  both  of 
nature  and  art  in  the  most  wonderful  genius  that  ever  troid  the  English, 
or  perhaps  any  stage,  for  his  rival,  £(>scius,  had  a  great  defect,  enU 
perversissimis  oculis.  You  say,  'whilst  Mr.  Wilkes  was  in  the  King^s 
J>ench,'  &c.  The  whole  of  this  pompous  tale  is  that  some  warm  friends 
of  Mr.  Wilkes  imagined  that  Mr.  Ghirrick  acted  the  part  of  Hastings  at 
that  time  in  a  manner  very  different  from  what  he  had  usually  done,  and 
marked  too  strongly  some  particular  passages,  unfavourable  to  the  generous 
principles  and  to  the  friends  of  freedom.  They  talked  of  expressing  their 
disapprobation  in  the  theatre  at  the  next  representation  of  Jane  Shore*  and 
likewise  in  the  public  prints.  Mr.  Wilkes  therefore  thought  it  prudent  to 
state  the  case  by  two  or  three  gentlemen  to  Mr.  Garrick  himself,  and  said 
he  feared  the  part  of  Hastings  might  bring  on  many  disagreeable  conse- 
quences to  the  great  actor  himself  as  well  as  to  Mr.  Wilkes  and  his  connec- 
tions,  if  continued  in  the  manner  then  stated.  Mr.  Ghurriek  reoeiyed  the 
friendly  admonition  in  the  most  friendly  way,  but  declared  that  the  gen- 
tlemen, who  had  given-  Mr.  Wilkes  the  account  of  his  acting  Haati:%gSi  had 
greatly  mistiken,  xhat  he  had  not  made  the  least  alteration  in  the  usiial  man- 
ner of  acting  that  part  on  account  of  the  political  disputes  of  the  times,  but 
been  solely  guided  by  his  own  feelings  :  that  he  always  had  acted  that  part, 
and  always  snould   play  it   in  the  same  marrver,  not  however  davishl^ 


TO   MR.    K.    6.   WOODFAU-.  48 

1  would  send  the  abovo  to  Garrick  directly,  but  tliat  I 
would  avoid  having  this  hand  too  commonly  seen.  Oblige 
me.  then,  so  much  as  lo  have  it  copied  in  any  hand,  and  sent 
by  the  penny  post,  that  is.  if  you  dislike  sending  it  in  your 
own  writing.  I  must  be  more  cautious  than  ever  I  am  sure 
I  should  not  survive  a  discovery  three  days ;  or,  if  I  did,  they 
would  attaint  me  by  bill.  Change  to  the  Somerset  Coffee 
House^  and  let  no  mortal  know  the  alteration.  I  am  persuaded 
you  are  too  honest  a  man  to  contribute  in  any  way  to  my 
destruction*.  Act  honourably  by  me,  and  at  a  proper  time 
you  shall  know  me. 

copying  himself,  but  with  all  the  variety  which  from  time  to  time  his  genius 
might  dictate,  preseiving  still  the  cast  and  spirit  of  the  original  character. 
Nothing  more  passed  on  this  subject  between  Mr.  Garrick  and  me,  nor 
has  that  gentleman  ever  expressed  the  slightest  displeasure  against  Mr. 
Wilkes,  or  his  friends :  so  iitr  has  he  been  from  complaining  exeeeditiffly 
of  ike  cruelty  of  an  interdict  which  never  existed. 

''Did  it  escape  your  memory,  Sir,  that  one  of  the  objections  made  at 
that  time  by  my  friends  was  the  pr'culiar  emphasis  Mr.  Ghirrick  was  said  to 
give  to  the  following  linas  of  HastuKjs,  which  some  thought  appiicalle  to  you" 
tituation : — 

'  111  befall 
Such  meddling  prieets,  who  kindle  up  oonfusion, 
And  vex  the^uiet  world  with  their  vain  ecmplef  ; 
By  Heaven  'tis  done  in  perfect  spite  to  peace.' 
"  You  say,  '  I  think  with  half  his  (Mr.  Garrick's)  merit  I  should  have 
bad  twice  his  courage.'     If  you  mean  theatricat  merit,  I  can  tell  you  of  some 
parts  in  which  yon  would   infinitely  exceed    our   great  English  actor.     I 
mean  all  those  parts  from  which— fiu/iuni  Pudor,  Verumque,  Fidesque,     I  a 
quorum  tubeunt  locum  FraudeSy  DuUqiUf  Ini'diasque,  Jbc.  Ac.     You  would 
act  and  he  logo  with  success.      Mr.  Garrick  has  that  in  him  which  must 
ever   prevent  his  acting  well  in  that  character.       Tou  have  that  in  yon 
which  would  make  it  easy  and  natural.     Shylock,  too,  our  Roscius  must 
npvsr  attempt.     The  Christian  priest  of  Bren^ord  has  no  vain  scruples  to 
prevent  his  undertaking  and  being  applauded  in  that  piirt.     He  might  then 
talk  of  dying  his  Hack  coat  red  with  blood  in  an  innocent  way  on  the  stage, 
which  at  Brentford  inspired  a  savage  horror. 

"  The  pleasing  hours  which  Mr.  Garrick  gave  me  at  the  King's  Bench  I 
haw  deducted  from  the  injury  of  a  long  and  cruel  imprisonment,  wid  I  think 
of  him  AS  Cicero  did  of  the  great  Roman  actor,  cum  arliftx  epumodi  sit,  wt 
solus  dignus  videatur  esse,  qui  in  scena  ^pectetur :  turn  vir  ejusmodi  est,  ui 
solus  dignus  videatur,  qui  t^  nan  aceednt, 

'*  I  am,  &&, 

"  John  WiLua." 
*  The  extreme  alarm  of  Junius  in  consequence  of  the  presm.ed  explora- 
tory movements  of  Garrick  will  be  readily  understood  from  the  exposition  now 
jiven  of  the  aothorship  of  tho  letters,  coupled  with  the  fact  of  Garrick  bein| 


4i  FBIYATS   LETTERS   OF  JUNIUS 

I  think  the  second  page,  with  the  widest  lines,  looks  best 
What  is  your  essential  reason  for  the  change*?  I  send  yoa 
some  more  sheets.  I  think  the  paper  is  not  so  good  as  Whe- 
ble's, — but  1  may  be  mistaken — the  type  is  good.  The  asper 
sions  thrown  upon  my  letter  to  the  Bill  of  Bights f  should  be 
refuted  by  publication. 

Prevail  upon  Mr.  Wilkes  to  let  you  have  extracts  of  my 
second  and  third  letters  to  him.  It  will  make  the  book  still 
more  new.  I  would  see  them  before  they  are  printed,  but 
keep  this  last  to  yourself^. 


No.  4a. 


November  11, 1771. 
Pmnt  the  following  as  soon  as  you  think  proper,  and  at  the 
head  of  your  paper  §. 

ft  co-proprietor  in  the  Public  Advertiser  (see  Appendix,  vol.  i.),  and  well 
known  to  Wood&U.  Further,  Garrick  was  on  visiting  terms  with  the  elder 
Francis,  and  probably  Francis,  junior  (Junius?),  was  familiar  to  him,  as  well  as 
his  handwriting.  Hence  the  strict  injunction  of  Junius  to  the  printer  to 
withhold  from  Garrick  a  sight  of  his  penmanship,  and  to  copy  in  the  writ-^ 
ing  of  another  the  menacing  note  addressed  to  him*  The  &ct  of  Woodfiill 
having  informed  Garrick  of  the  **  probability  that  Junius  would  write  no 
more,'*  and  the  supposed  celerity  with  which  the  intelligence  was  de- 
spatched to  Richmond,  has  been  adverted  to  in  a  former  note;  but  nothing  has 
been  said  of  the  peculiar  sources  of  Junius's  information  of  Garrick  s  proceed- 
ings, and  for  this  plain  reason,  that  when  Mason  Gk>od  wrote,  the  claims  of 
Francis  to  the  authorship  had  not  been  examined.  But  the  source  of  intelli- 
gence  may  now  be  assumed  on  what  seem  sufficient  grounds :  Garrick  may 
have  mentioned  Woodfall's  news  to  Dr.  Francis,  and  be  to  his  son ;  or  Lord 
Holland  may  have  learnt  it  from  George  III.  in  one  of  his  private  interviews, 
and  made  it  a  topic  of  conversation  at  the  evening  symposium  with  Dr. 
Francis,  Calcraft,  the  army  contractor,  and  his  mistress  Bellamy.  —  Ed. 

*  In  allusion  to  a  specimen  of  the  intended  genuine  edition  of  the  letters. 

f  In  the  correspondence  which  took  place  between  Mr.  Wilkes  and 
Junius,  two  of  his  letters  related  to  the  Bill  of  Rights  Society,  and  were 
written  in  disapprobation  of  sevend  of  their  measures.  These  letters  were, 
in  many  respects,  misrepresented  to  the  public,  and  in  his  own  opinion,  pur- 
posely so  by  Mr.  Home.  The  explanatory  extracts  here  referred  to  were 
republished  at  the  close  of  the  second  volume  of  the  Junius  edition,  and  will 
be  found  in  vol.  i.  p.  467.  The  letters  are  given  at  length  in  the  private 
correspondence  between  Junius  and  Mr.  Wilkes,  pott 

^  On  the  outside  of  this  letter  was  written  *'  private  and  particular." 

§  Certain  paragraphs  relating  to  the  marriage  of  the  Duke  of  Gumbeibuu^ 
Inserted  ic  the  Preliminary  Essay,  p.  20. 


TO   MR.   H.   8.   WOODFALL  4  b 

I  sent  you  three  sheets  of  copy  last  night. 

When  you  send  to  me,  instead  of  the  usual  si^al,  say  Vin- 
dex  shall  be  considered,  and  keep  the  alteration  a  secret  tc 
every  bod  V. 


No.  4S. 

AK  It  November  15,  1771. 
If  you  can  find  the  date  of  the  Duke  of  Bedford's  flo<yging, 
insert  it  in  tho  note*.  I  think  it  Tvas  soon  after  the  West- 
minster election.  The  Philos  are  not  to  be  placed  as  notee^ 
except  where  I  mention  it  particularly.  I  have  no  doubt  ol 
what  you  say  about  David  Garrick,  so  drop  the  note.  The 
truth  is  that,  in  order  to  curry  favour,  he  made  himself  a 
greater  rascal  than  he  was.  Depend  upon  what  I  tell  you: 
— the  King  understood  that  he  had  found  out  the  secret  by 
his  own  cunning  and  activity.  As  it  is  important  to  deter 
him  from  meddling,  I  desire  you  will  tell  him  that  I  am 
aware  of  his  practices,  and  will  certainly  be  revenged  if  he 
does  not  desist.  An  appeal  to  the  public  from  Junius  would 
destroy  him. 

Let  me  know  whether  Mr.  Wilkes  will  give  you  the  ex- 
tracts!. 

I  cannot  proceed  without  answers  to  tliose  seven  queries. 

Think  no  more  of  Junius  Americanus  J.  Let  him  reprint 
his  letters  himself.  He  acts  most  dishonourably  in  suffering 
Junius  to  be  so  traduced:  but  this  falsehood  will  all  revert 
upon  Home.     In  the  meantime,  I  laugh  at  him. 

With  submission  I  think  it  is  not  your  interest  to  declare 
that  I  have  done. 

As  to  yourself,  I  really  think  you  are  in  no  danger.     You 

*  See  note  to  Letter  23  of  Junius,  ante,  vol.  i.  p.  214. 

f  Referred  to  in  the  last  paragraph  of  No.  41. 

:{:  Junius  Americanus  was  a  frequent  writer  in  the  Public  Advertiser 
daring  the  years  1769,  1770,  and  1771.  His  letters  chiefly  related,  as  his 
sitmature  readily  suggests,  to  the  disputes  of  the  cabinet  with  the  American 
rolonies  ;  and,  in  the  course  of  his  strictures,  he  attributed  to  Junius  doc- 
trines, in  relation  to  their  dependence  on  the  legislature  of  Great  Britain, 
which  he  had  never  avowed,  nor  even  inclined  to.  At  this  time  there  was 
some  idea  of  publishing  them  collectively.  They  were  written  by  a  Dr. 
("Charles  Lee,  as  may  be  seen  by  a  reference  to  the  private  irtres(.'oaiieiic4 
Letween  Junius  and  Mr.  \Yi]l;es. 


40  PRIVATE   LETTWKS  OF  JUNTUB 

are  not  the  object,  and  punishing  you  (unless  it  answered  tLe 
purpose  of  stopping  the  press)  would  be  no  gratification  to  the 
King.  If  undesignedly  I  should  send  you  anything  you  may 
think  dangerous,  judge  for  yourself,  or  take  any  opinion  you 
think  proper.  You  cannot  offend  or  afflict  me  but  by  hazarding 
your  own  safety.  They  talk  of  fai-ther  informations,  but  they 
will  always  hold  that  language  in  terrorem. 

Don't  always  use  the  same  signal — any  absurd  Latin  verse 
will  answer  the  purpose*. 

Let  me  know  about  what  time  you  may  want  more  copy. 

Upon  reflection,  I  think  it  absolutely  necessary  to  send 
that  note  to  D.  G.f;  only  say  practices  instead  of  impertinent 
inquiries,  I  think  you  have  no  measures  to  keep  with  a  man 
who  could  betray  a  confidential  letter  for  so  base  a  purpose 
as  pleasing:  •     •••«•••••*••• 

*  Preliminary  Essay,  vol.  i.  p.  22. 

+  David  Grairick,  ante,  No.  41. 

X  This  appears  the  proper  place  to  insert  Mr.  Qarrick's  letter  to  Mr. 
Woodfall,  first  published  iu  the  Garrick  Correspondence  by  Mr.  Colbam  in 
1827,  and  which  clears  up  the  errors  of  Dr.  Good,  of  Junius,  and  the  latter's 
unfounded  suspicions  respecting  Garrick. 

lettsr  fkom  dayid  oar&iok  to  h.  s.  woodfall. 

"Sir,  "Nov.  20,  1771. 

"  I  am  obliged  to  address  this  letter  to  you  and  to  appeal  to  your  probity— 
in  that,  and  my  own,  lies  my  defence  against  a  most  unprovoked  and  illiberal 
attack  made  upon  me  by  your  celebrated  correspondent  Junius.  Had  you 
not  convinced  me  that  the  letter  I  received  last  Monday  night  was  really 
written  by  that  gentleman,  I  could  not  have  imagined  that  such  talents 
could  have  descended  to  such  scurrility.  However  mighty  the  power  may  be 
with  which  he  is  pleased  to  threaten  me,  I  trust  with  truth  on  my  side,  and 
your  assistance,  to  be  able  to  parry  the  vigour  of  his  arm,  and  oblige  him  to 
drop  hit  point,  not  for  want  of  force  to  overcome  so  feeble  an  adversary  as  I 
am,  but  from  the  shame  and  consciousness  of  a  very  bad  cause.  In  one 
particular  I  will  be  acknowledged  his  superior  ;  for,  however  easy  and  justi- 
fiable such  a  return  may  be,  I  will  make  use  of  no  foul  language.  My 
rindication  wants  neither  violence  nor  abuse  to  support  it :  it  would  be  as 
Knmanly  to  give  injurious  names  to  one  who  will  not,  as  to  him  who 
cannot,  resent  it.  Now  to  the  fact  which,  till  you  had  expUined  to  me.  had 
made  no  impression  upon  my  mind.  I  am  told  in  most  outrageous  terms, 
and  near  a  month  after  the  supposed  crime  was  committed  (for  Junius  wac 
exactly  informed  of  my  pixtetices  the  day  after),  that  if  the  vagabond  does  not 
keep  to  his  pantomimes,  every  hour  of  his  life  shall  be  cursed  for  his  interfering 
with  Junius.  Is  not  this  rather  too  inquisitorial  for  the  great  champion  of 
our  b'b<>rt!*«  ^  Now  let  us  exvnine  into  the  dreadful  cause  of  this  denanci» 
tio»>      Mr.  WoodfiilU  the  first  informer,  informs  me  in  a  letter  in  nowi^ 


TO   MU.    H.   S     WOODFAfJ..  47 

Tell  me  how  long  it  may  be  before  you  \vt.nl  ruore  copy.  1 
^ant  rest  most  severely,  and  am  going  to  fitid  it  in  the  country 
for  a  few  days.     Oumbriensis*  has  taken  greatly- 


No.  44. 

November  27, 1771. 
The  postscript  to  Titus  must  be  omitted}.    I  did  never  ques 
tion  your  understanding.     Far  otherwise.     The  Latin  word 

rdatiTe  to  the  labject,  vithoul  any  previous  imperiiiient  inquiries  <m  my 
part,  or  the  least  desire  of  secrecy  on  his,  that  Junius  would  un-ite  no  more. 
Two  or  three  days  after  the  receipt  of  yours,  being  obliged  to  write  a  letter 
upon  the  business  of  the  theatre  to  one  at  Richmond  ',  and  after  making  my 
excuses  for  not  being  able  to  obey  his  Majesty's  commands,  I  mentioned  to 
him  that  Junius  would  write  no  more — but  the  triumph  that  succeeded  this 
intelligence  never  reached  me  till  I  received  Junius's  letter  :  and  so  far  was 
I  from  thinking  there  was  a  crime  in  communicating  what  was  sent  me 
without  reserve,  that  I  will  freely  confess  that  I  wrote  no  letter  to  any  of 
my  friends  without  the  mention  of  so  remarkable  an  event  I  will  venture 
to  go  further,  and  affirm  that  it  would  have  been  insensible  and  unnatural 
not  to  have  done  it.  I  beg  you  will  assure  Junius  that  I  have  as 
proper  an  abhorrence  of  an  informer  as  he  can  haie — ^that  I  have  been 
honoured  with  the  confidence  of  men  of  all  parties,  and  I  defy  my 
greatest  enemy  to  produce  a  single  instance  of  any  one  repenting  of  such 
confidence. 

**  I  have  always  declared  tliat  were  I  by  any  accident  to  discover  Junius, 
no  consideration  should  prevail  upon  mo  to  reveal  a  secret  productive  of  so 
much  mischief,  nor  can  this  most  undeserved  treatment  of  me  make  m<^ 
alter  my  sentiments. 

'*  One  thing  more  I  must  obsen'e,  that  Junius  has ,  given  credit  to  an 
infonner  in  prejudice  of  him  who  was  never  in  the  least  suspected  of  being 
a  spy  before.  Had  any  of  our  judges  condemned  the  lowest  culprit  upoii 
such  evidence  without  hearing  the  person  accused  and  other  witnesses,  the 
nation  would  have  rung  with  injustice  ! 

**  I  shall  say  no  more  ;  but  I  beg  you  to  tell  all  you  know  of  this  matter, 
and  be  assured  that  I  am,  with  great  regard  for  Junius's  tcilents,  but  without 
the^east  for  his  threatenings, 

"  Tour  well-wisher  and  humble  servant, 

"  D.  Garriok."— -Ed. 

*  See  Miscellaneous  Letter,  No.  102.  It  was  printed  in  the  Pvhlie 
Advertiser f  Nov.  13,  1771,  upon  the  marriage  of  the  Duke  of  Cumberland 
with  Mrs.  Horton,  the  sister  of  Col.  Luttrell. 

f  His  postscript  addressed  to  Titus  was  added  to  bis  letter  to  Bir  Wra. 
Oraper  of  Feb.  21,  1769.     It  engaged  to  give  Titus  a  severe  castifation  fot 


^  *'  Tills  alludes  to  his  fnend  Raises."— (>.  CovKimT. 


48  PKIVATE   LETTERS   OF   JUNIUS 

simplex  conve/s  to  me  an  amiable  character,  and  never  denotes 
folly.  Thougli  we  may  not  be  deficient  in  point  of  capacitj, 
it  is  very  possible  that  neither  of  us  may  be  cunning  enough 
for  Mr.  Garrick.  But  with  a  sound  heart,  be  assured  you  are 
better  gifted,  even  for  worldly  happiness,  than  if  you  had  been 
cursed  with  the  abilities  of  a  Mansfield.  After  long  expeiience 
of  the  world,  1  affirm  before  God,  I  never  knew  a  rogue  who 
was  not  unhappy. 

Your  account  of  my  letter  to  the  Bill  of  Rights  astonished 
me.  I  always  thought  the  misrepresentation  had  been  the 
work  of  Mr.  Home*.  I  will  not  trust  myself  with  suspecting. 
The  remedy  is  in  my  own  hands,  but,  for  Mr.  Wilkes's  honour, 
I  wish  it  to  come  fieelv  and  honouniblv  from  himself.  Pub- 
lish  nothing  of  mine  until  I  have  seen  it.  In  the  meantime 
be  assured  that  nothing  can  be  more  express  than  my  de^ 
claration  against  long  parliaments.  Try  Mr.  Wilkes  once 
more.  Speak  for  me  in  a  most  friendly  but^rm  tone.  That 
I  will  not  submit  to  be  any  longer  aspersed.  Between  our 
selves,  let  me  recommend  it  to  you  to  be  much  upon  your 
guard  with  patriots.  I  fear  your  friend  Jerry  Dyson  will  lose 
his  Irish  pension f.     Say  received. 

havinsr  written  with  some  degree  of  acrimony  on  the  same  side  as  the 
Knight  of  the  Buth.  '1  he  engagement,  however,  was  not  fulfilled  under  hia 
signature  of  Junius,  and  hence  the  propriety  of  omitting  the  postscript  in 
question  in  bis  own  edition. 

*  Here  he  admits  that  he  was  mistaken  in  the  conjecture  that  Home  had 
misrepresented  the  sentiments  conveyed  in  his  letters  to  the  Bill  of  Rights 
Society.  Yet  as  he  published  the  same  opinion  in  his  own  edition,  which  is 
now  reprinted  in  vol.  i.  p.  467,  he  must  afterwards  have  had  fresh  grounds 
for  re-accrediting  it,  while  in  the  present  letter  he  seems  more  than  half  to 
suspect  Wilkes  himself. 

f  He  feared  with  reason.  Jeremiah  Dyson,  Esq.,  was  one  of  the  Lords  of 
the  Admiralty,  and  in  Feb.  1770  resigned  his  seat  in  fiivonr  of  the  kte 
lamented  foreign,  minister  Mr.  Fox,  upon  an  Irish  pension  of  1500^.  per 
annum  for  his  own  life,  and  that  of  his  three  sons.  The  following  is  an 
account  of  the  mode  in  which  he  lost  it :  — 

"  In  a  committee  of  supply  of  the  House  of  Commons  of  Ireland,  Nov. 
25,  1771,  after  a  long  debate  the  question  was  pat,  and,  on  a  division,  it 
was  carried  against  the  pension  by  a  majority  of  07:0,  the  numbers  being,  for 
it,  105,  against  it,  106  :  on  which  the  House  immediately  resolved,  *  That 
the  pension  granted  to  Jeremiah  Dyson,  Esq.,  and  his  three  son^is  an  unne- 
cessary charge  upon  the  establishment  of  Ireland,  and  ought  not  to  be  pro- 
vided for.'  Ordered, '  That  the  said  pension  be  struck  ofi  the  list  of  pen* 
sioners  upon  the  Muiblishment  of  Ireland.* "  For  Mr.  Flood's  speech  upoc 
this  subject,  see  Preliminary  Essay,  p.  80. 


TO  MB.  H.  8.  WOODFALL.  49 

In  page  $25,  it  should  be  the  instead  of  your*.  This  is  a 
ii^oefid  mistake ;  —pray  take  care  for  the  future — keep  a  page 
for  errata. 

Dayid  Garrick  has  litendlj  forced  me  to  break  my  resolu 
tion  of  writing  no  moref. 


No.  46. 

December  5, 1771. 
These  papers  are  all  in  their  exact  order.  Take  great  care 
to  keep  them  so.  In  a  few  days  more  I  shall  have  sent  you 
all  the  copy.  You  must  then  take  care  of  it  yourself,  except 
that  I  must  see  proof  sheets  of  the  Dedication  and  Preface, 
and  these,  if  at  all,  I  must  see  before  the  end  of  next  week. 
You  shall  have  the  extract  to  go  into  the  second  volume,  it 
will  be  a  short  one.  Sccsvola,  I  see,  is  determined  to  m£use 
me  an  enemy  to  Lord  Camden  J.  If  it  be  not  wilful  malice, 
I  beg  you  will  signify  to  him  that  when  I  originally  men- 
tioned Lord  Camden's  declaration  about  the  Com  Bill  it  was 
without  any  view  of  discussing  that  doctrine,  and  only  as  an 
instance  of  a  singular  opinion  maintained  by  a  man  of  great 
learning  and  integrity.  Such  an  instance  was  necessary  to 
the  plan  of  my  letter.  1  think  he  has  in  effect  injured  the 
man  whom  he  meant  to  defend.  - 

When  you  send  the  above-mentioned  proof  sheets  return 
my  own  copy  with  them. 


No.  46. 

December  10,  1771. 
The  enclosed  completes  all  the  materials  that  I  can  give  you 
I  have  done  my  part.    Take  care  you  ^  yours.    There  are 
still  two  letters  wanting,  which  I  expect  you  wiU  not  fail  to  in- 
sert in  their  places.    One  is  from  Philo-Junius  to  Scaevola 

*  In  the  opening  of  the  Letters  of  Jimius,  No.  8,  vol.  i.  p.  416,  it  wm 
originally  printed  in  the  genoine  edition,  "  Tour  defence,"  &c.  In  the 
preient  edition  the  correction  has  been  duly  adopted. 

t  The  letter  alluded  to  is  Junius,  No.  67,  vol  L  p.  441. 

X  For  further  particulars  of  this  dispute^  see  Letters  of  Junini^  No.  60^ 
vd.  L  p.  417. 

TOL.  II  X 


50  PBIVATS  LXTTRRS  OF  JUNIUS 

about  Lord  Camden,  the  other  to  a  Friend  of  the  People  about 
pressing*.  They  must  be  iu  the  course  of  October.  I  have 
no  view  but  to  serve  you,  tmd  consequently  have  only  to  de- 
sire that  the  Dedication  and  Preface  may  be  correct.  Look 
to  it.  If  you  take  it  upon  yourself,  I  will  not  forgive  your 
suffering  it  to  be  spoiled.  I  weigh  every  word ;  and  every 
alteration,  in  my  eyes  at  least,  is  a  blemish. 

I  should  not  trouble  you  or  myself  about  that  blockhead 
Scsevola,  but  that  his  absurd  fiction  of  my  being  Lord  Cam- 
den's enemy  has  done  harm.  Every  fool  can  do  mischief; 
therefore  signify  to  him  what  I  said. 

Garrick  has  certainly  betrayed  himself,  probably  *  *  *, 
who  makes  it  a  rule  to  betray  everybody  that  confides  in  him. 
That  new  disgrace  of  Mansfield  is  truef;  what  do  you  mean 
by  afi&rming  that  the  Dowager  is  better?     I  tell  you  she 

*  These  two  letters  are  numbered  Philo-Junins,  60  and  62^  vol.  i;  pp.  dl7 
and  429. 

f  The  allusion  is  to  a  cause  which  was  tried  at  the  Summer  Asiiates  for 
the  county  of  Surrey,  in  1771,  Meares  and  Shepley  against  Ansell,  for  a 
trespass,  in  which  his  Lordship  was  supposed  to  have  given  a  very  partial 
charge  in  &vour  of  the  defendant,  who  thereby  obtained  a  verdiet.  The 
plaintiffs,  however,  on  the  Michaelmas  Term  following,  moved  the  Comt  of 
Common  Pleas  for  a  new  trial,  on  the  ground  of  the  misdirectioa  of  the 
judge.  The  judge  was  called  upon  for  his  report,  which  he  could  not  make 
without  sending  to  the  plaintiff's  attorney  for  his  af&davit  of  the  tnuisac- 
tion.  He  made  his  report  at  last,  to  which  he  subjoined  that  he  was  per- 
fectly satisfied  with  the  verdict  of  the  jury.  The  Court  of  Common  Pleas 
was  clearly  of  opinion  that  Lord  Mansfield  had  acted  contrary  to  every 
principle  of  evidence,  both  in  law  and  equity,  in  admitting  Matthews  and 
Hiscox  to  give  parol  evidence,  contrary  to  a  clear  explicit  agreement  in 
writing,  which  they  had  attested — ^and  asserted,  that  if  such  a  piactioe  was 
to  obtain,  it  would  go  a  great  way  towards  subverting  the  statute  of 
frauds  and  perjuries,  and  would  be  a  most  dangerous  inlet  to  perjury,  and 
a  means  of  rendering  men's  properties  very  precarious  and  insecure.  The 
court  therefore  set  aside  the  verdict,  and  ordered  a  new  trial;  and  it 
appeared  to  the  court  to  be  so  gross  a  misdirection  that  it  dispensed  with 
the  usual  terms  of  payment  of  costs.  Although  Lord  Mansfield,  in  his 
direction  to  the  jury,  represented  the  trespasses  as  small  and  insignificant, 
and  the  action  as  litigious,  the  Court  of  Common  Pleas  said  the 
were  obstinate,  wilful,  and  malicious. 

Mr.  Rowlinson,  the  plaintiff's  attorney,  felt  so  dissatisfied  with  the 
duct  of  Lord  Mansfield  upon  the  occasion,  that  in  the  same  term  a  motion 
was  made  at  his  instigation  to  have  his  name  struck  off  the  Bolls  of  the 
Court  of  King's  Bench,  which,  as  a  motion  of  eonne,  wai  aoquieaced  im. 
when  he  was  immedialely  admitted  into  the  CommoB  PImi. 


TO  MU    B.   S.   WOODFAUm  51 

SQckles  toads  from  morning  till  night*.     I  think  I  liave  now 
done  my  duty  by  you,  so  farewell. 


No.  47. 

December  17,  1771. 

Make  your  mind  easy  about  me.  I  believe  your  are  an  honest 
man,  and  I  never  am  angry  f.  Say  to-morrow  "  We  are  de- 
sired to  inform  Scaevola  that  his  private  note  was  received 
with  the  most  profound  indifference  and  contempt"!  I  see 
his  design.  The  Duke  of  Grafton  has  been  long  labouring  to 
detach  Camden.  This  Scssvola  is  the  wretchedest  of  all  fools, 
and  dirty  knave. 

Upon  no  account,  nor  for  any  reason  whatsoever,  are  you  lo 
write  to  me  until  I  give  you  notice. 

When  the  book  is  finished,  let  me  have  a  set  bound  in 
vellum,  gilt,  and  lettered  Junius  1.  2.  as  handsomely  as  you 
can— the  edges  gilt.  Let  the  sheets  be  well  dried  before 
binding.  I  must  also  have  two  sets  in  blue  paper  covers. 
This  is  all  the  fee  I  shall  ever  desire  of  you  I  think  you 
ought  not  to  publish  before  the  second  week  in  January. 

The  London  Packet  is  not  worth  ouv  notice.  I  suspect 
'harick,  and  I  would  have  you  liint  so  to  him. 

*  He  refers  to  the  following  paragraph,  which  appeared  in  the  Public 
Advertiser,  Dec.  6,  1771 : — 

,  '**  We  have  the  pleasure  to  assure  the  public,  from  the  most  undoubted 
lathority,  that  the  repeated  accounts  of  her  B-oyal  Highness  the  Princess 
Dowager  of  Wales  being  very  ill,  and  her  life  in  great  danger,  are  entirely 
Use ;  such  reports  being  only  calculated  to  promote  the  shameful  spirit  of 
gsmbling,  by  insurance  on  lives."  The  Princess  Dowager  was  at  this  time 
sfflicted  witn  a  cancer,  and  died  on  the  8th  of  January  in  the  following 
year. 

t  He  had  received  a  note  from  Mr.  Woodfinll,  vindicating  himself  from 
any  improper  motive  in  his  communication  to  Mr.  Qarrick,  which  has  been 
alnady  referred  to. 

t  The  information  to  Scssvola  was  duly  communicated  in  the  Publie 
AdieertiuT :  and  the  flippancy  of  this  writer^s  style,  and  the  coquetry  of  hia 
political  attachments,  fally  merited  the  contecipt  here  expressed  for  him. 


]i  y 


52  PEIVATE  LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS. 


No.  48 

Jaonary  6,  1772. 
I  HATE  a  thing  to  mention  to  you  in  great  confidence.    I  ex- 
pect your  assistance,  and  rely  upon  your  secrecy. 

There  is  a  long  paper  ready  for  puhlication,  but  which  must 
not  appear  until  the  morning  of  tiie  meeting '  of  parliament, 
nor  be  announced  in  any  shape  whatsoever*.  Much  depends 
upon  its  appearing  unexpectedly.  If  you  receive  it  on  the 
8th  or  9th  instant,  can  you  in  a  day  or  two  have  it  composed, 
and  two  proof  sheets  struck  off  and  sent  me;  and  can  you  keep 
the  press  standing  ready  for  the  Public  Advertiser  of  the  21st, 
and  can  all  this  be  done  with  such  secrecy  that  none  of  your 
people  shall  know  what  is  going  forward,  except  the  composer; 
and  can  you  rely  on  his  fidelity?  Consider  of  it,  and,  if  it  be 
possible,  say  yes,  in  your  paper  to-morrow. 

I  think  it  will  take  four  full  columns  at  the  least,  but  I 
undertake  that  it  shall  sell.  It  is  essential  that  I  should 
have  a  proof  sheet,  and  correct  it  myself. 

Let  me  know  if  the  books  are  ready,  that  I  may  tell  you 
what  to  do  with  them. 


No.  49. 

Saturday,  January  11,  1772. 
Your  failing  to  send  me  the  proofs,  as  you  engaged  to  do, 
disappoints  and  distresses  me  extremelyf.     It  is  not  merely 
to  correct  the  press  (though  even  that  is  of  consequence),  but 
for  another  most  material  purposel.     This  will  be  entirely 

i 

*  Letter  to  Lord  Mansfield.    Junius,  No.  68,  toI.  i. 

f  Of  Junius,  No.  68,  referred  to  in  the  preceding  letter. 

Z  Here  Mason  Gfood  remarks,  ''He  seems  to  allude  to  a  promise  or  ezpecta- 
tion  of  legal  assistance  from  some  friendly  quarter."  But  what  waa  only  specula- 
tive conjecture  in  Woodfall's  editor  may  now  be  spoken  of  as  positiye  fiiict,  the 
publication  of  the  Correspondence  of  ike  Earl  of  duUIuim  having  elucidated 
the  "  most  material  purpose**  Junius  had  in  view  in  obtaining  proo&  of  bis 
Letters  to  Lord  Mansfield  and  Lord  Oamden.  From  this  CorrenHmdence 
(vol.  iv.  p.  190),  it  appears  that  proof  sheets  of  these  letters  were  forwarded 
by  Junius  to  Lord  Chatham  at  Burton  Pynsent,  together  with  a  private 
letter  to  his  Lordship  stating  and  enforcing  the  chief  points  of  his  legal  argu- 
ment against  the  Chief  Justice. 

This  letter  ha*  been  inserted  in  the  Ap?snpix  to  the  present  tolcBSA   Iv 


TO   MR.   H     S    WOODFALL.  59 

defeated  if  you  do  not  let  me  have  the  two  proofs  c  n  Monday 
morning. 

The  paper  itself  is,  in  my  opinion,  of  the  highest  style  of 
Junius,  and  cannot  fail  to  sell.  My  reason  for  not  announcing 
it  was  that  the  party  might  have  no  time  to  concert  his  mea- 
sures with  the  ministry.  But  upon  reflection,  I  think  it  may 
answer  better  (in  order  to  excite  attention)  to  advertise  it  the 
day  before,  Junius  to  Lord  Chief  Justice  Mansfield  to-morrow! 

Quoting  from  memory,  I  have  made  a  mistake  about  Black- 
stone  where  I  say  that  he  confines  the  power  to  the  Court,  and 
does  not  eoctend  it  to  the  Judges  separately.  Those  lines  must 
be  omitted  *.  The  rest  is  right.  If  you  have  any  regard  for 
me,  or  for  the  cause,  let  nothing  hinder  your  sending  the 
proofs  on  Monday. 

his  commimication  to  the  Barl  of  Chatham,  Junius  appears  apprehensive  lest 
Lord  Mansfield  may  try  to  "  whittle  away  his  oversight"  in  bailing  Eyre, 
Mid  escape  from  the  legal  network  in  which  he  is  confident  he  has  enclosed 
him.  To  avert  such  result  Junius  is  urgent  that  Lord  Chatham  and  the  Duke 
of  Bichmond  should  be  present  in  the  House  of  Lords,  prepared  to  take 
down  the  words  of  the  Chief  Justice,  and  move  for  "  committing  him  to  the 
Tower." 

Notwithstanding  the  firm  belief  of  Junius  that  Lord  Mansfield  had 
exceeded  his  power  in  bailing  Eyre,  charged  with  theft,  Lord  Campbell 
remarks  of  tlie  celebrated  writer  that  he  was  "  egregiously  in  the  wrong — 
clearly  showing  that  he  was  not  a  lawyer,  his  mistakes  not  being  designedly 
made  for  disguise,  but  palpably  proceeding  from  an  ignorant  man  affecting 
knowledge." — Lives  of  the  Chief  Jtisticei,  vol.  ii.  p.  491.  Junius,  however, 
never  pretended  to  be  a  lawyer ;  he  admitted  distinctly  that  he  was  not,  and 
acknowledged  himself  "  to  be  no  more  deeply  read  than  every  English 
gentleman  should  be  in  the  law  of  his  country." — {Pr^ace,  vol.  i.  p.  92).  He 
cherished,  indeed,  an  indifferent  opinion  of  the  morality  of  lawyers  and  their 
needful  acquirements.  "  As  a  practical  profession,"  says  he,  "  the  study  of 
the  law  requires  but  a  moderate  portion  of  abilities.  The  learning  of  a 
pleader  is  usually  upon  a  level  with  his  integrity.  The  indiscriminate 
defence  of  right  and  wrong  contracts  the  understanding,  while  it  corrupts  the 
heart." — Junitu,  voL  i  p.  449. 

It  does  liot  appear  from  the  Chatham  Papers  that  the  Earl  left  any  remarks 
on  the  two  communications  Junius  privately  addressed  to  him,  nor  whether 
he  had  any  knowledge  or  suspicion  of  his  correspondent — Ed. 

*  ''  In  the  proofs  now  before  us,  corrected  by  Junius,  this  passage  ii 
erased.  It  may  be  added  that  the  Greek  2  is  used  for  the  »ign  of  deletion 
instead  of  the  more  usiud  one  of  the  Greek  ^.  This  trifling  distinction 
would  hardly  be  worth  alluding  to,  did  it  not  afford  another  instance  ol 
agreement  vrith  Sir  Philip  Francis,  whose  corrections  for  the  press  W9f 
Bade  in  a  similar  manner." — Junitis  Identified. — Ed. 


54  PRIVATE    LETFEBS   OF  JUNIUS 

No.  60 

Janurtry  16,  1772. 

I  RETURN  you  the  proof  with  the  errata,  which  yoii  will  be  so 
good  as  to  correct  carefully.  I  have  the  greatest  reason  to  be 
pleased  with  your  care  and  attention,  and  wish  it  were  in  my 
power  to  render  you  some  essential  service.  Announce  it  on 
Monday. 


No.  51. 

(Private.) 

Saturday,  January  18, 1772. 
The  gentleman  *  who  transacts  the  conveyancing  part  of  our 
correspondence  tells  me  there  was  much  difficulty  last  night. 
For  this  reason,  and  because  it  could  be  no  way  material  for 
me  to  see  a  paper  on  Saturday  which  is  to  appear  on  Monday, 
I  had  resolved  not  to  send  for  it.  Your  hint  of  this  morning 
I  suppose  relates  to  thisf.  I  am  truly  concerned  to  see  that 
the  publication  of  the  book  is  so  long  delayed.  It  ought  to 
have  appeared  before  the  meeting  of  parliament.  By  no 
means  would  I  have  you  insert  this  long  letter,  if  it  made 
more  than  the  difference  of  two  days  in  the  publication. 
Believe  me  the  delay  is  a  real  injury  to  the  cause.  The  letter 
to  M.  I  may  come  into  a  new  edition. 

Mr.  Wilkes  seems  not  to  know  that  Morris  published  that 
letter  §.     I  think  you  should  set  him  right. 


No.  52. 


Jaouary  25, 1772. 
Having  nothing  better  to  do,  I  propose  to  entertain  myself 
and  the  public  with  torturing  that   ******     Bar- 

*  Of  this  gentleman  nothing  is  known. 

f  "  Mutare  necessarium  est"  Answer  to  correspondents,  Jan.  18, 
1772. 

t  To  Lord  Mansfield,  No.  68. 

§  Mr.  Robert  Morris  was  a  barrister,  who  took  a  very  active  part  in  the 
city  disputes,  and  on  the  popular  side,  and  was  secretary  to  the  Bill  ot 
Eights  Society.  For  a  further  account  of  him  see  note  in  Miscellaneous 
Letter,  No.  98.  He  occasionally  wrote  in  the  Public  Advertiser.  Tht 
publicntion  of  the  letter  Hllnded  to  Wilkes  had  attributed  to  a  Mr.  Cawdruu. 
See  Private  Letter,  No.  82. 


TO   MB.   H.    S     W0ODFAI.L.  5^ 

rmgton.  He  has  just  appointed  a  French  bioker  his  deputy, 
for  no  reason  but  his  relation  to  Bradshaw  *.  I  hear  from  all 
quarters  that  it  is  looked  upon  as  a  most  impudent  insult  to 
the  army.  Be  careful  not  to  have  it  known  to  come  from  me. 
Such  an  insignificant  creature  is  not  worth  the  generous  rage 
of  Junius.     I  am  impatient  for  the  book. 


No.  53. 


Monday,  February  8,  1772. 

1  CONFESS  I  do  not  see  the  use  of  the  table  of  contents.     I 
think  it  will  be  endless  and  answer  no  purpose ;  an  index  of 
proper  names  and  materials  would,  in  my  opinion,  be  suffi 
dent.     You  may  safely  defy  the  malice  of  Mr.  Wheblet 

*  Mr.  Chamier,  brother-in-law  to  Bradshaw,  the  Duke  of  G-rafton's  private 
•ecretaiy,  here,  and  elsewhere,  so  slightingly  mentioned  by  Junius,  is  thus 
undenralued  solely  as  a  mode  of  attacking  Lord  Barrington.  He  was  not  a 
mere  broker  in  the  Alley,  preferred  only  for  the  chicanery  which  may  be 
learned  there.  We  are  told  by  Sir  John  Hawkins,  in  his  entertaining  Lift 
of  Dr.  Johntfyn,,  that  Mr.  Chamier  was  selected  by  the  lage  as  one  of  the 
original  nine  composing  his  clab  at  the  Turk's  Head,  in  Gerard  Street. 
"  He  was  descended  firom  a  French  refugee  fEtmily.  Having  had  a  liberal 
education,  his  deportment  and  manner  of  transacting. the  business  of  a  stock- 
broker distinguished  him  greatly  from  most  others  of  that  calling.  He  was 
well  skilled  in  the  modem  languages,  particularly  the  Spanish,  in  the  study 
whereof  he  took  great  delight.  He  had  acquired  such  a  fortune  as  enabled 
him,  though  young,  to  quit  business,  and  become,  what  indeed  he  seemed  by 
nature  intended  for,  a  gentleman."     This  club  was  instituted  in  1763. 

Mr.  Dyer,  upon  his  return  from  Germany,  where  he  had  been  a  commis- 
sary with  the  army,  was  allowed  to  become  the  tenth  member.  Perhaps  it 
may  not  be  unimportant  to  show  that  thus  Mr.  Chamier  was  well  known  to 
Mr.  Burke  and  to  Mr.  Dyer,  at  the  time  when  Juniua  b^an  to  write,  and 
wai  an  esteemed  member  of  the  club,  of  which  they  were  distinguished 
ornaments.  The  reader,  even  in  a  political  work,  may  not  be  displeased  to 
see  the  names  recorded  of  men  who  thus  met  for  social  objects,  and  among 
whom  politics  never  intruded. 

Dr.  Johnson.  Sir  John  Hawkins. 

Sir  Joshua  B«ynolds.  Mr.  Topham  Beauclerk. 

Mr.  Edmund  Burke.  Bennet  Langton. 

Christ.  Nugent,  M.D.  Anthony  Chamier. 

Oliver  Goldsmith,  M.B.  Samuel  Dyer. 

+  Wheble  had  already  reprinted  an  imperfect  edition  of  the  Letters  of 
Junius,  but  certainly  without  any  intention  of  injuring  the  original  publisher 
of  them.  The  word  malice,  as  applied  to  Mr.  Wheble,  merely  meant  n  valry. 
See  Private  Letter.  No.  66. 


66  PKIVATE  LETTEES  OF  JUNIUS. 

Whoever  bujs  such  a  book  will  naturally  prefer  the  author*s 
edition,  and  I  think  it  will  always  be  a  book  for  sale.  I  really 
am  in  no  hurry  about  that  set.  Purling,  I  hear,  is  to  come  in 
for  Eastlow — a  sure  proof  of  the  connection  between  him 
and  government  *.  I  would  have  you  open  anything  that  may 
be  brought  to  you  for  me  (except  from  Mr.  Wilkes),  and  not 
forward  it  unless  it  be  material. 

That  large  roll  contained  a  pamphlet. 


No.  54. 

Monday,  Feb.  lO,  1772. 
If  you  have  anything  to  communicate  you  may  send  it  to  the 
original  place  for  once  N.E.C. ;  and  mention  any  new  place 
you  think  proper,  west  of  Temple  Bar.     The  delay  of  the 
book  spoils  everything. 


No.  55. 

Monday  Night,  Feb.  17,  1772. 

Surely  you  have  misjudged  it  very  much  about  the  book.  I 
could  not  have  conceived  it  possible  that  you  could  protract 
the  publication  so  long.  At  this  time,  particularly  before 
Mr.  Sawbridge's  motion  f,  it  would  have  been  of  singular  use. 
You  have  trifled  too  long  with  the  public  expectation.  At  a 
certain  point  of  time  the  appetite  palls.  I  fear  you  have  al- 
ready lost  the  season.  The  book,  I  am  sure,  will  lose  the 
greatest  part  of  the  effect  I  expected  from  it.  But  I  have 
done. 


No.  56. 

About  Feb.  22,  1772. 
I  DO  you  the  justice  to  believe  that  the  delay  has  been  una- 
voidable.    The  expedient  you  propose  of  printing  the  Dedi- 

*  John  Purling,  Esq.,  one  of  the  directors  of  the  East  India  Company, 
who  took  a  very  active  part  in  their  aflEurs  at  that  period. 

f  In  fevonr  of  triennial  parliaments,  as  already  noticed  in  a  note  to  th4 
Preliminary  BissertadoD 


TO   ME.   H.   6     WOODFALI  57 

eatioa  and  Preface  in  the  P.  A.  is  unadvisable.  The  attention 
of  the  public  would  then  be  quite  lost  to  the  book  itself.  I 
think  your  rivals  will  be  disappointed.  Nobody  will  apply  to 
them  when  they  can  be  supplied  at  the  fountain  head.  I  hope 
you  are  too  forward  to  have  any  room  for  that  letter  of  Domi- 
tian*,  otherwise  it  is  merely  indifferent.  The  Latin  I 
thought  much  superior  to  the  English.  The  intended  bill,  in 
eonsequence  of  the  message,  will  be  a  most  dangerous  innova- 
sion  in  the  internal  policy  of  this  country  f .  What  an  aban- 
doned prostituted  idiot  is  your  lord  mayor  J !  The  shameful 
mismanagement  which  brought  h:*m  into  office  gave  me  the 
first  and  an  unconquerable  disgust.  All  J  can  now  say  is 
make  haste  with  the  book. 

C. 

The  appointment  of  this  broker  §,  I  am  told,  gives  universal 
disgust.  That  ************  ||  would  never 
have  taken  a  step  apparently  so  absurd  if  there  were  not 
some  wicked  design  in  it  more  than  we  are  aware  of.  At  any 
rate  the  broker  should  be  run  down.  That,  at  least,  is  due  to 
his  master. 


No.  57. 


Saturday,  Feb.  29,  1772. 

I  AX  very  glad  to  see  that  the  book  will  be  out  before  Saw- 
bridge's  motion.  There  is  no  occasion  for  a  mark  of  admira- 
tion at  the  end  of  the  motto.  But  it  is  of  no  moment  what- 
soever. When  you  see  Mr.  W.  pray  return  him  my  thanks 
for  the  trouble  he  has  taken.  I  wish  he  had  taken  more  IF. 
I  should  be  glad  to  have  a  set,  sewed,  left  at  the  same  place 
to-morrow  evening.     Let  it  be  well  sealed  up. 

C. 

# 

*  This  letter,  for  the  reason  here  stated,  was  not  printed  in  the  genuine 
tdition. 

f  The  bill  here  spoken  of  is  the  Royal  Marriage  Act. 

%  In  allusion  to  the  partial  and  impolitic  conduct  of  Mr.  Nash,  at  this 
time  lord  mayor,  upon  the  common  questions  of  city  politics  brought  before 
him,  especially  in  refusing  to  call  a  common  hall,  agreeably  to  a  request  very 
generally  signified  to  him  for  this  purpose. 

§  Chamier.  (|  Lord  Barrington. 

\  Mr.  Wilkes,  at  the  request  of  Junius,  perused  and  revised  the  Dedicatioi 
and  Prefiice  tc  tha  genuine  edition  of  the  lettersi 


63  PEIVATK  LETTERS  OP  JUNIUS. 

No.  68. 

Tuesday,  Maicli  8,  1772. 
STouB  letter  was  twice  refused  last  night,  and  the  waiter  rs 
Dften  attempted  to  see  the  person  who  sent  for  it.  I  was  im- 
patient to  see  the  book,  and  think  I  had  a  right  to  that  at- 
tention a  little  before  the  general  publication*.  When  I 
desired  to  have  two  sets  sewed,  and  one  bound  in  vellum,  it 
was  not  from  a  principle  of  economy.  I  despise  such  little 
savings,  and  shall  still  be  a  purchaser.  If  I  was  to  buy  as 
many  sets  as  I  want,  it  would  be  remarked. 

Pray  let  the  two  sets  be  well  parcelled  up  and  left  at  the 
bar  of  Munday's  Coffee  House,  Maiden  Lane,  with  the  same 
direction,  and  with  orders  to  be  delivered  to  a  chairman 
who  will  ask  for  them  in  the  course  of  to-morrow  evening. 
Farewell. 


No.  59. 

Thursday,  March  5,  1772. 

Your  letters  with  the  books  are  come  safe  to  hand.  The 
difficulty  of  corresponding  arises  from  situation  and  necessity, 
to  which  we  must  submit.  Be  assured  I  will  not  give  you 
more  trouble  than  is  unavoidable.  If  the  vellum  books  are 
not  yet  bound,  I  would  wait  for  the  index.  If  they  are,  let 
me  know  by  a  line  in  the  P.  A.  When  they  are  ready,  they 
may  safely  be  left  at  the  same  place  as  last  night. 

On  your  account  I  was  alarmed  at  the  price  of  the  book. 
But  of  the  sale  of  books  I  am  no  judge,  and  can  only  pray  for 
your  success.  What  you  say  about  the  profits  t  is  very  hand- 
some. I  like  to  deal  with  such  men.  As  for  myself,  be  as- 
sured that  I  am  far  above  all  pecuniary  views,  and  no  other 
person,  I  think,  has  any  claim  to  share  with  you.  Make  the 
most  of  it  therefore,  and  let  all  your  views  in  life  be  directed 
to  a  solid,  however  moderate,  independence.  Without  it  no 
man  can  be  happy,  or  even  honest. 

*  The  genuine  edition  of  the  letters  was  published  on  the  Srd  of  March, 
1772. 

f  Woodfall  made  Junius  an  offer  of  half  the  profits  of  the  book,  or  if  h« 
should  decline  accepting  them  for  himself,  to  give  a  sum  of  money  equal  Is 
their  amount  to  any  charity  whkh  he  should  choose  to  name. 


TO   MB.   H     S.    WOODFALL.  59 

If  I  saw  aiiy  prospect  of  uniting  the  city  once  more,  I 
would  readily  continue  to  labour  in  the  vineyard.  Whenever 
Mr.  Wilkes  can  tell  me  that  such  an  union  is  in  prospect,  he 
shall  hear  of  me. 

Qudd  si  quis  existimat  me  aut  voluntate  esse  mtitatd,  aut  de- 
hUitatd  virtute,  out  animo  fracto,  ^ehementer  errat.    Farewell 

In  the  Preface,  p.  $20,  line  7,  read  unseasonable, 

p.  26, 18, accuracy*. 


No.  60. 


May  4. 1772. 
If  pars  pro  toto  f  be  meant  for  me,  I  must  beg  the  favour  of 
you  to  recall  it.   At  present  it  would  be  difficult  for  me  to  re- 
ceive it.     When  the  books  are  ready,  a  Latin  verse  inll  be 
sufficient. 


No.  61. 


Sunday.  May  3,  1772. 

I  AM  in  no  manner  of  hurry  about  the  books.  I  hope  the  sale 
has  answered.  I  think  it  will  always  be  a  saleable  book. 
The  enclosed  is  fact,  and  I  wish  it  could  be  printed  to-morrow. 
It  is  not  worth  announcing.  The  proceedings  of  this  wretch 
are  unaccountable.  There  must  be  some  mystery  in  it  which 
I  hope  will  soon  be  discovered  to  his  confusion.  Next  to 
the  Duke  of  Grafton,  I  verily  believe  that  the  blackest  heart 
in  the  kingdom  belongs  to  Lord  Harrington^. 

*  These  errors  are  corrected  in  the  present  edition. 

f  A  line  in  the  printer's  notice  to  correspondents,  introduced  as  a  signa. 
that  a  letter,  or  parcel,  was  in  waiting  for  him  at  the  usual  place. 

X  This  was  after  Junius  had  quarrelled  with  Lord  Barrington,  for  not 
being  appointed  his  deputy  in  the  War  Office :  it  was,  however,  to  the  sub- 
sequent recomraendation  of  his  Lordship  that  Francis  was  indebted  for  his 
lucrative  appointment  in  India.  This  note  is  still  in  possession  of  the  printer 
of  the  present  edition;  it  accompanied  Junius's  letter  signed  Scoitis, 
MKircAsed  to  Lord  Barrington,  and  forms  No.  Ill  of  the  Miscelkneoua 
Letters. — iiSK 


60  PBIYATE   LETTERS   OF  JUNIUS. 

No.  6-2.  • 

May  10,  1772. 
Pray  let  this  be  announced,  Memoirs  of  Lord  Barrington 
in  our  next^.     Keep  the  author  a  secret •)■. 


No.  63. 

January  19,  1778. 

I  HAVE  seen  the  signals  thrown  out  for  your  old  friend  and 
correspondent.  Be  assured  that  I  have  had  good  reason  for 
not  complying  with  them.  In  the  present  state  of  things,  if 
I  were  to  write  again,  I  must  be  as  silly  as  any  of  the  homed 
cattle  that  run  mad  through  the  city,  or  as  any  of  your  wise 
aldermen.  I  meant  the  cause  and  the  public.  Both  are 
given  up.  I  feel  for  the  honour  of  this  country,  when  I  see 
that  there  are  not  ten  men  in  it  who  will  unite  and  stand  to- 
gether upon  any  one  question.  But  it  is  all  alike,  vile  and 
contemptible. 

You  have  never  flinched  that  I  know  of;  and  I  shall  always 
rejoice  to  hear  of  your  prosperity. 

If  you  have  anything  to  communicate  (of  moment  to  your- 
self) you  may  use  the  last  address,  and  give  a  hint  J. 


No.  64. 


Sir, 
I  HAVE  troubled  you  with  the  perusal  of  two  letters,  as  that  of 
the  prior  date  accounts  for  the  delay  of  not  sending  the  books 

*  The  annunciation,  under  this  title,  appeared  in  the  notice  to  corre- 
spondents, Public  Advertiser,  May  11,  and  the  Memoirs  were  printed  in  a 
letter  bearing  the  signature  of  Nemesis,  May  12,  forming  Miscellaneoas  Let- 
ter, No.  118.  See  also  note  at  the  end  of  Nemesis,  for  a  notice  of  Lord  Bar 
rington. 

f  Junius  (Fraricisf)  having  done  his  work,  set  out,  as  already  stated,  ou 
his  continental  travels,  and  did  not,  as  appears  from  the  date  of  his  next  and 
concluding  note,  again  communicate  with  Wood&ll  till  the  January  following. 
—Ed. 

X  This  letter  was  thus  noticed  in  the  answer  to  correspondents  in  the 
PvJblie  Advertiser,  March  8, 1773.  **  The  letter  from  ah  old  VRiE]n>  and 
OORRESPOHDENT,  dated  Jan.  19,  came  safe  to  hand,  and  his  directions  are 
strictly  followed.     Qnod  si  qui*  exisHmat,  aut,  <t:c." 


MB.   WOODFALL  TO  JUR1U8.  61 

sooner ;  and  this  acquaints  you  that  I  did  not  get  them  oat  of 
the  bookbinder's  hsaida  till  yesterday ;  nor,  though  I  desired 
them  to  be  finished  in  the  most  elegant  manner  possible,  are 
they  done  so  well  as  I  wished.  But,  Sir,  if  the  manner  of  the 
contents  and  index  are  not  agreeable  to  you,  they  shall  be 
done  over  again  according  to  any  directions  you  shall  please 
to  fiayour  me  with.  With  respect  to  city  politics,  I  fear  the 
breach  is  too  wide  ever  to  be  again  closed,  and  eveh  my  friend 
Mr.  Wilkes  lost  some  of  his  wonted  coolness  at  the  late  elec- 
tion, on  Sawbridge,  Oliver,  &c.,  scratching  against  him*.  I 
hope  you  will  believe  that,  however  agreeable  to  me  it  must 
be  to  be  honoured  with  your  correspondence,  I  should  never 
entertain  the  most  distant  wish  that  one  ray  of  your  splendour 
should  be  diminished  by  your  continuing  to  write.  Mr. 
Wilkes,  indeed,  mentioned  to  me  the  other  day  that  he  thought 
the  East  India  Company  a  proper  subject,  and  asked  if  I  could 
conununicate  anything  to  you,  to  which  my  reply  was  that  I 
could  not  tell  (as  I  did  not  know  whether  you  might  choose 
to  be  intruded  upon).  You  will  perceive  by  the  papers  that 
two  persons  have  forced  themselves  upon  us  who,  without  a 
tithe  of  Mr.  Wilkes's  abilities,  imagine  the  public  will  look  up 
to  them  as  their  deliverers ;  but  they  are  most  egregiously 
mistaken,  as  every  one  who  possesses  a  grain  of  common  sense 
hold  them  in  almost  utter  contempt.  You  will  probably  guess 
who  I  mean,  and  were  I  capable  of  drawing  a  parallel,  I  should 
borrow  some  part  of  it  from  Shakespeare's  lago  and  Roderigo. 
Should  it  please  the  Almighty  to  spare  your  life  till  the  next 
general  election,  and  I  should  at  that  time  exist,  I  shall  hope 
you  will  deign  to  instruct  me  for  whom  I  should  give  my  vote, 
as  my  wish  is  to  be  represented  by  the  most  honest  and  able, 
and  I  know  there  cannot  be  any  one  who  is  so  fit  to  judge  as 

*  Mr.  Wilkes  and  Mr.  Townshend  were,  after  a  sharp  contest,  returned  to 
the  court  of  aldermen  for  them  to  make  their  election  of  one  of  these  gentle* 
men  to  the  mayoralty  for  the  year  1772,  when  'their  choice  fell  upon 
Mr.  Alderman  Townshend,  in  consequence  of  Sawbridge  and  Oliver 
scratching  against  Wilkes.  The  candidates  for  that  office,  with  the  numbers 
which  they  polled,  were  as  under : — 

Mr.  Alderman  Wilkes    ....     2801 
Townshend  .    .     .    2278 


»» 


tt 


Hallifaz        .     .     .     2126 
Shakespesj-e      .    .     1912 


rrrat  irma  or  nmirs. 
I  hit  0 


«-j:iw  i:a  boi  Me  jeram  »bo  irodd  speai  lo  ne  on  ihs 

*::.«•.  inj  ;hii  gmdemu  is,  [  beliere,  a  irw  InendmlM 

roj  e.-ii  rf  hii  connin;  Iidmd  ifr.Gloter.ibsMtWof 

/^'UJi    As  I  liwugliiSerleul  GIp  deserving  of  somfr 

V.:ss  more  tian  tJje  mere  fees  of  Ms  pfesskm,  for  ite  miK 

be  Uii  ufwn  m.nriil,  I  kve  mide  s  punJisse  of  a  sEsU  tret. 

tuid  ti  Brenifofd  bj  war  of  qnaJificaiim,  in  order  to  mmw 

him.  if  be  shoiJd  offer  himself « the  ml  elecnon,  nheoevsr 

j[  sbodd  happen,  thai  I  hold  his  wrricea  in  grsteful  remen- 

branw.  Bm  I  am  since  informai  ibal  it  is  noi  his  intendoB 

and  liut  Lord  Perc;  is  to  be  joined  nth  Sir  W.  B.  Pnxtor' 

nlto  is  lo  be  supported  bj  ihe  Bute  of  Korthunberlaiid'a  io 

Wmt.  I  hare  beard  mucb  of  a  inost  trimming  lelier  [nm  Hi 

Siemut  Io  Lord  Mansfield  on  the  Bouglas  cms,  but  cuun 

pissiblj'  gel  a  copj,  which  prohahlj  would  be  a  good  letter  i. 

If,  Sir,  jou  ahoold  not  disapproie  of  the  Contents  and 
Indei  I  ibonght  of  adrenisiug  then  in  the  nuoner  of  the 
enclosed  form,  if  I  hare  jour  penoission  so  lo  do,  but  not 
oihenrise.  Jtfaj  Ib^  the  farair  of  a  line  in  answer?  Be- 
iiTTe  me.  Sir,  to  be,  with  giatiliide  and  rt^Kcl, 
Toot  mnch  obliged 

humble  semnl  to  eonmajid, 
HESIT  SAIDSOH  WOWfALL 


f)3 


PRIVATE  CORRESPONDENCE 
BETWEEN  JUNIUS  AND  MR.  WILKES. 


No.  65. 

JUNIUS  TO  JOHN  WILKES,   ESQ. 

London,  2l8t  Angnst,  1771* 

I.  PRESUME,  Sir,  you  are  satisfied  that  I  mean  you  well,  and 
that  it  is  not  necessary  to  assure  you  that  while  you  adhere 
to  the  resolution  of  depending  only  upon  the  public  favour 
(which,  if  you  have  half  the  understanding  I  attribute  to 
you,  you  never  can  depart  from)  you  may  rely  upon  my  ut 
most  assistance.  Whatever  imaginary  views  may  be  ascribed 
to  the  author,  it  must  always  make  part  of  Junius's  plan  to 
support  Mr.  Wilkes  while  he  makes  common  cause  with  the 
people.  I  would  §ngage  your  favourable  attention  to  what  1 
am  going  to  say  to  you ;  and  I  entreat  you  not  to  be  too  hasty 
in  concluding,  from  the  apparent  tendency  of  this  letter,  to 
any  possible  interests  or  connections  of  my  own.  It  is  a  very 
common  mistake  in  judgment,  and  a  very  dangerous  one  in  con 
duct,  first  to  look  for  nothing  in  the  argument  proposed  to  us 
but  the  motive  of  the  man  who  uses  it,  and  then  to  measure 
th^  truth  of  his  argument  by  the  motive  we  have  assigned  to 
him.  With  regard  to  me.  Sir,  any  refinement  in  this  way 
would  assuredly  mislead  you ;  and  though  I  do  not  disclaim 
the  idea  of  some  personal  views  to  future  honour  and  advan- 
tage (you  would  not  believe  me  if  I  did),  yet  I  can  truly  af- 

*  On  this  letter  is  written,  in  Mr.  Wilkes's  own  hand,  the  following  memo- 
nndmn  :~ 

"  August  21, 1771. 
**  fieceived  on  Wednesday  noon  by  a  chairman,  who  said  he  brought  i 
fimn  a  gentleman  whom  he  nw  in  Lancaster  Court,  in  the  Strand. 

«J.  W." 


64         LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS  AND  MR.  WILKES 

firm  that  Deither  are  they  little  in  themselves,  nor  can  they 
by  any  possible  conjecture  be  collected  from  my  writings. 

Mr.  Home,  after  doing  much  mischief,  is  now,  I  think, 
completely  defeated  and  disarmed.  The  author  oiF  the  late 
unhappy  divisions  in  the  city  is  removed.  Why  should  we 
suffer  his  works  to  live,  after  him  ?  In  this  view,  1  confess, 
I  am  vindictive,  and  would  visit  his  sins  upon  his  children. 
I  would  punish  him  in  his  offspring,  by  repairing  the  breaches 
ho  has  made.  Convinced  that  I  am  speaking  to  a  man  who 
has  spirit  enough  to  act  if  his  judgment  be  satisfied,  I  will 
not  scruple  to  declare  at  once,  that  Mr.  Sawbridge  oitght  to 
oe  Lord  Mayor*,  and  that  he  ought  to  owe  it  to  your  first 
motion,  and  to  the  exertion  of  all  your  credit  in  the  city.  I 
affirm,  without  a  doubt,  that  political  prudence,  the  benefit  of 
the  cause,  your  public  reputation  ahid  personal  interest,  do  all 
equally  demand  this  conduct  of  you.  I  do  not  deny  that  a 
stroke  like  this  is  above  the  level  of  vulgar  policy,  or  that  if 
you  were  a  much  less  considerable  man  than  you  are  it  would 
not  suit  you.  But  you  will  recollect,  Sir,  that  the  public 
opinion  of  you  rises  every  day,  and  that  you  must  enlarge 
your  plan  as  you  proceed,  since  you  have  every  day  a  new 
acquisition  of  credit  to  maintain.  I  offer  you  the  sincere 
opinion  of  a  man,  who,  perhaps,  has  more  leisure  to  make  re- 
flections than  you  have,  and  who,  though  he  stands  clear  of 

*  After  the  death  of  the  patriotic  magistrate,  Mr.  Beckford,  in 
1770,  Mr.  Sawbridge  managed  the  Chatham  interest  in  the  city,  and  was 
in  constant  communication  with  his  Lordship's  political  attorney,  Mr.  Cal- 
craft.  Hence  the  declaration  of  Junius,  that  Alderman  Sawbridge  ''  ought 
to  be  Lord  Mayor."  He  in  his  election  £Euled  on  the  present  occasion,  but 
m  1776  obtained  the  mayoralty.  Writing  to  the  Earl  of  Chatham,  Oct.  19, 
1770,  Mr.  Calcraft  says  : — *'  Mr.  Sawbridge  came  here  this  evening,  after 
having  attended  the  common  council.  The  recorder's  business  has  ended 
much  to  the  satisfaction  of  our  friends."  {ChiUham  Correspondence,  iii. 
474.)  The  recorder  had  given  offence  by  declining  to  attend  at  St  James's 
with  the  city  remonstrance,  and  the  common  council,  after  first  repealing  an 
old  by-law  that  required  them  to  consult  the  recorder  and  common  ser- 
geant in  all  city  business,  passed  a  resolution  not  to  employ  the  reorder  in 
any  city  business,  but  to  consult  Sergeant  Glyn.  Mr.  Calcraft  writes  to 
Chatham,  Nov.  28,  1770, "  Your  Lordship  gave  me  great  private  satisfaction 
in  what  you  so  generously  said  [in  the  House  of  Lords]  about  my  friend 
Sawbridge."  {Ibid,  iv.  33.)  These  excerpts  are  essential  to  elucidate  the 
origin  of  the  city  preferences  of  Jimius,  and  the  sources  of  his  copious  in- 
formation rolative  to  the  movements  of  parties  there.  Alderman  Sawbridgt 
died  in  1795.— Kd. 


JUNIUS  TO  ME.  WILKES.  65 

all  busiuess  and  intrigue,  mixes  sufficiently  for  the  purposei> 
of  intelligence  in  the  conversation  of  the  world. 

Whatever  language  you  in  prudence  assume  to  the  public, 
you  cannot  but  be  sensible  that  the  separation  of  those  gentle- 
men who  withdrew  from  the  Bill  of  Eights  was  of  consider- 
able disservice  to  you.  It  required,  in  my  opinion,  your 
utmost  dexterity  and  resolution,  and  not  a  little  of  your  good 
fortune,  to  get  the  better  of  it.  But  are  you  now  really  upon 
the  best  ground  on  which  Mr.  Wilkes  might  stand  in  the 
city  ?  Will  you  say  that  to  separate  Mr.  Sawbridge  from  a 
connection  every  way  hostile  to  you,  and  to  secure  him  i^ainst 
the  insidious  arts  of  Mr.  Home,  and  the  fury  of  Mr.  Towns- 
hend  (if  it  could  be  done  without  embarrassing  your  leading 
measures,  and  much  more  if  it  promoted  them),  would  not  give 
you  a  considerable  personal  gratification  ?  Will  you  say  thisit 
a  public  declaration  of  Mr.  Sawbridge  in  your  favour,  and 
the  appearance  of  your  acting  together  (I  do  not  speak  at 
present  of  a  hearty  coalition  or  confidence),  would  not  contri- 
bute to  give  you  a  more  secure,  a  more  permanent,  and,  with- 
out ofifence  to  any  man,  a  more  honourable  hold  upon  the  city 
than  you  have  at  present  ?  What  sensations  do  you  conceive 
a  union  between  you  and  Mr.  Sawbridge  would  excite  in  the 
breast  of  Mr.  Home?  Would  it  not  amount  to  a  decisive 
refutation  of  all  the  invidious  arguments  he  has  drawn  from 
your  being  deserted  by  so  many  of  the  considerable  figures  of 
the  party  ?  The  answer  to  these  questions  is  too  obvious  to 
be  mistaiLon.  But  you  will  say  to  yourself,  what  you  would  not 
confess  to  Junius  : — *'  Mr.  Sawbridge  is  a  man  of  unquestion- 
able probity,  and  the  concurrence  of  his  reputation  would  un- 
doubtedly be  of  service  to  me ;  but  he  has  not  pliancy  enough 
to  yield  to  persuasion,  and  I,  Wilkes,  am  determined  not  to 
suffer  another  to  reap  the  harvest  of  my  labours  :  that  is,  to 
take  the  lead  of  me  in  the  city."  Sir,  I  do  not  mean  or  ex- 
pect that  you  should  make  such  a  sacrifice  to  any  man.  But 
besides  difference  in  point  of  conduct  between  leading  and  going 
foremost,  I  answer  your  thoughts  when  I  say,  that  although 
Mr.  Sawbridge  is  not  to  be  directed  (and  even  this  perhaps  is 
not  so  literally  and  completely  tme  as  he  himself  imagines), 
on  the  other  hand  he  does  not  mean  to  direct.  His  dis- 
position, as  you  well  know,  is  not  fitted  for  that  active  manage 
ment  and  intrigue?  which  acquire  an  operaung  popularity  and 

vol   ir  V 


66  LETTRBS   or  JUNIUS  AND   VR.   WIUUBS 

direct  the  people  by  their  passions.  1  attribute  to  you  both 
the  most  honourable  intentions  for  the  public ,  but  you  travel 
different  roads,  and  never  can  be  rivals.  It  is  not  that  Mr. 
Sawbridge  does  not  wish  to  be  popular;  but,  if  I  am  not 
greatly  mistaken,  his  virtues  have  not  ostentation  enough  for 
the  ordinary  uses  of  party,  and  that  they  lead  rather  to  tlie 
esteem  of  individuals  than  to  popular  opinion.  This  I  con- 
ceive is  exactly  the  man  you  want — you  cannot  always  sup- 
port a  ferment  in  the  minds  of  men.  There  will  necessarily 
be  moments  of  languor  and  fatigue;  and  upon  these  occasions 
Mr.  Sawbridge*s  reputed  firmness  and  integrity  may  be  a 
capital  resource  to  you — you  have  too  much  sagacity  not  to 
perceive  how  far  this  reasoning  might  be  carried. 

In  the  very  outset  you  reap  a  considerable  advantage, 
either  from  his  acceptance  or  refusal.  What  a  copious  sub* 
ject  of  ostentation ! — what  rich  colours  to  the  public  !  Your 
zeal  to  restore  tranquillity  to  the  city;  the  sacrifice  of  all 
personal  recollections  in  favour  of  a  man  whose  general  cha- 
racter you  esteem;  the  public  good  preferred  to  every  pri- 
vate or  interested  consideration,  with  a  long  et  catera  to  your 
own  advantage.  Yet  I  do  not  mean  to  persuade  you  to  so 
simple  a  part  as  that  of  contributing  to  gratify  Mr.  Sawbridge 
withotit  a  reciprocal  assurance  from  him  that,  upon  fair  and 
honourable  occasions,  he  will  in  return  promote  your  advan- 
tage. Your  own  judgment  will  easily  suggest  to  you  such 
terms  of  acknowledgment  as  may  be  binding  upon  him  in  point 
of  gratitude,  and  not  offensive  to  his  delicacy.  I  have  not 
entered  into  the  consideration  of  any  objections  drawn  from 
^he  fertile  field  of  provocation  and  resentment.  Common 
men  are  influenced  by  common  motives ;  but  you,  Sir,  who 
pretend  to  lead  the  people,  must  act  upon  higher  principlea 
To  make  our  passions  subservient  to  you,  you  must  command 
your  own.  The  man  who,  for  any  personal  indulgence  what- 
soever, can  sacrifice  a  great  purpose  to  a  little  one,  is  not 
qualified  for  the  management  oi  great  affairs. 

Let  me  suppose,  then,  that  every  material  difficulty  on  your 
part  is  removed ;  and  that,  as  far  as  you  alone  are  concerned, 
fou  would  be  ready  to  adopt  the  plan  I  propose  to  you. 

If  you  are  a  man  of  honour  you  will  still  have  a  powerful 
objection  to  oppose  to  me.  Admitting  the  apparent  ad  van 
tage  to  your  own  purposes,  and  to  the  cause  you  arc  engage<^ 


JUNIUS  TO  MB.   WILKES.  67 

fn,  you  will  tell  me  **  that  you  are  no  longer  at  liberty  to 
choose ; — tnat  the  desertion  of  those  persons  who  once  pro 
fessed  a  warm  attachment  to  you,  has  reduced  you  to  a  situa 
tion  in  which  you  cannot  do  that  which  is  absolutely  best ; — 
that  Mr.  Crosby  has  deserved  everything  from  you  and  from 
the  city; — ^and  that  you  stand  engaged  to  contribute  your  whole 
strength  to  continue  him  another  year  in  the  mayoralty." 
My  reply  to  this  very  just  objection  is  addressed  rather  to 
Mr.  Crosby  than  to  Mr.  Wilkes.  He  ought  at  all  events  to 
be  satisfied ;  and  if  I  cannot  bring  him  over  to  my  opinion, 
there  is  an  end  of  the  argument ;  for  I  do  agree  with  you  most 
heartily,  that  it  is  as  gross  a  breach  of  policy  as  of  morals,  to 
sacrifice  the  man  who  has  deserved  well  of  us  to  any  tempo^ 
rary  benefit  whatsoever.  Far  from  meaning  to  separate  you 
from  Mr.  Crosby,  it  is  essential  to  the  measure  I  recommend 
that  it  should  be  your  joint  act.  Nay,  it  is  ho  who  in  the 
first  instance  should  open  the  communication  with  Mr.  Saw- 
bridge  ;  nor  is  it  possible  for  you  to  gain  any  credit  by  the 
measure  in  which  he  will  not  of  necessity  be  a  considerable 
Bharer.  But  now  for  considerations  which  immediately  afifect 
Mr.  Crosby. 

Tour  plan,  as  I  am  informed,  is  to  engage  the  livery  to  re- 
tarn  him  with  Mr.  Bridgen.  In  my  own  opinion  the  court  of 
alderman  will  choose  Bridgen;  consequently  the  sacrifice  I 
require  of  Mr.  Crosby  would  in  effect  be  nothing.  That  hi 
will  be  defeated  is  to  my  judgment  inevitable.  It  is  for  him 
to  consider  whether  the  idea  of  a  defeat  be  not  always  at- 
tended with  some  loss  of  reputation.  In  that  cajse,  too,  he  will 
bave  forced  upon  the  citizens  (whom  he  professes  to  love  and 
respect)  a  magistrate,  upon  whose  odious  and  contemptible 
character  he  at  present  founds  his  only  hopes  of  success.  Do 
you  think  that  the  city  will  not  once  in  the  course  of  a  twelve- 
month be  sensible  of  the  displeasure  you  have  done  them  ? 
Or  that  it  will  not  be  placed  in  strong  terms  to  your  account  ? 
I  appeal  to  Miss  Wilkes,  whose  judgment  I  hear  highly  com- 
mended— would  she  think  herself  much  indebted  to  her  fa- 
Tourite  admirer  if  he  forced  a  most  disagreeable  partner  upon 
her  for  a  long  winter's  night,  because  he  could  not  dance  with 
her  himself? 

You  will  now  say, — "  Sir,  we  understand  the  politics  of  tbu 

9  a 


06  LETTEB8  OF  JUNXHR  4ND  MB    WII.KES. 

city  better  than  you  do.  and  are  well  assured  that  Mr.  Crosby 
will  be  chosen  lord  mayor ; — otherwise  we  allow  that  upon 
your  plan  be  might  acquire  credit  without  forfeiting  any  real 
advantage."  Upon  this  ground  I  expect  you,  for  I  confess  it 
is  incumbent  upon  me  to  meet  your  argument  where  it  lies 
strongest  against  me.  Taking  it  for  granted,  then,  that  Mr. 
Crosby  may  be  lord  mayor,  I  affirm  that  it  is  not  his  interest^ 
because  it  is  not  his  greatest  interest.  The  little  profit  of 
the  salary  cannot  possibly  be  in  contemplation  with  him.  I 
do  not  doubt  that  he  would  rather  make  it  an  expensive  office 
to  himself.  His  view  must  be  directed  then  to  the  flattering 
distinction  of  succeeding  to  a  second  mayoralty,  and,  what  is 
still  more  honourable,  to  the  being  thought  worthy  of  it  by 
his  fellow-citizens.  Placing  this  advantage  in  its  strongest 
light,  I  say  that  every  purpose  of  distinction  is  as  completely 
answered  by  his  being  known  to  have  had  the  employment  in 
his  power  (which  may  be  well  insisted  upon  in  argument,  and 
never  can  be  disproved  by  the  fact)  as  by  his  accepting  it. 
To  this  I  add  the  signal  credit  he  will  acquire  with  every 
honest  man  by  renouncing,  upon  motives  of  the  clearest  and 
most  disinterested  public  spirit,  a  personal  honour,  which  you 
may  fairly  tell  the  world  was  unquestionably  within  his  reach. 
But  these  are  trifles.  I  assert  that  by  now  accepting  the 
mayoralty  (which  he  may  take  hereafter  whenever  he  pleases) 
he  preoludk  himself  from  BoUciting,  with  any  colour  of  de- 
cency,  a  real  and  solid  reward  from  the  city.  I  mean  that  he 
should  be  returned  for  London  in  the  next  Parliament.  I 
think  his  conduct  entitles  him  to  it,  and  that  he  cannot  £sdl 
of  succeeding,  if  he  does  not  furnish  his  opponents  with  too 
just  a  pretence  for  saying  that  the  city  have  already  rewarded 
him.  On  the  contrary,  with  what  force  and  truth  may  he 
tell  his  fellow-citizens  at  the  next  election,  "for  your  sakes  I 
relinquished  the  honour  you  intended  me.  The  common 
good  required  it.  But  I  did  not  mean  to  renounce  my  hopes 
that  upon  a  proper  occasion  you  would  honour  me  with  a 
public  mark  of  your  approbation." 

You  see  I  do  not  insist  upon  the  good  effects  of  Mr.  Saw- 
bridge's  gratitude,  yet  I  am  sure  it  may  be  depended  upon. 
I  do  not  say  that  he  is  a  man  to  go  all  lengths  with  Mr. 
Wilkes ;  but  you  may  be  assured  that  it  is  not  danger  that 


JUNIUS  TO  MA    WILKES.  09 

will  deter  him,  and  that  wherever  you  have  the  voice  of  the 
people  with  you,  he  will,  upon  principle,  support  their  choice 
at  the  hazard  of  his  life  and  fortune. 

Now,  Sir,  supposing  all  objections  are  removed,  and  that 
you  and  Mr.  Crosby  are  agreed,  the  question  is  in  what  man- 
ner is  the  business  to  be  opened  to  Mr.  Sawbridgo.  Upon 
this  point,  too,  I  shall  offer  you  my  opinion,  because  the  plan 
of  this  letter  would  not  otherwise  be  complete.  At  the  same 
time  I  do  very  unaffectedly  submit  myself  to  your  judgment. 

I  would  have  my  lord  mayor  begin  by  desiring  a  private 
interview  between  him,  Mr.  Crosby*,  and  yourself.  Very 
little  preface  will  be  necessary.  You  have  a  man  to  deal 
with  who  is  too  honourable  to  take  an  unfair  advantage  of 
you.  With  such  a  man  you  gain  everything  by  frankness 
and  candour,  and  hazard  nothing  by  the  confidence  you  repose 
in  him.  Notwithstanding  any  passages  in  this  letter,  I  would 
show  him  the  whole  of  it :  in  a  great  business  there  is  nothing 
so  fatal  as  cunning  management;  and  I  would  tell  him  it 
contained  the  plan  upon  which  Mr.  Crosby  and  you  were 
desirous  to  act,  provided  he  would  engage  to  concur  in  it  bond 
fide^  so  far  forth  as  he  was  concerned.  There  is  one  condi- 
tion, I  own,  which  appears  to  me  a  sine  qud  non ;  and  yet  I 
do  not  see  how  it  can  be  proposed  in  terms,  unless  his  own 
good  sense  suggests  the  necessity  of  it  to  him — I  mean  the 
total  and  absolute  renunciation  of  Mr.  Home.  It  is  very 
likely  indeed  that  this  gentleman  may  do  the  business  lor 
himself,  either  by  laying  aside  the  mask  at  once,  or  by  abusing 
Mr.  Sawbridge  for  accepting  the  mayoralty  upon  any  terms 
whatsoever  of  accommodation  with  Mr.  Wilkes. 

This  letter,  Sir,  is  not  intended  for  a  correct  or  polished 
composition ;  but  it  contains  the  very  best  of  Junius's  under- 
standing. Do  not  treat  me  so  unworthily,  or  rather  do  not 
degrade  yourself  so  much,  as  to  suspect  me  of  any  interested 
view  to  Mr.  Sawbridge's  particular  advantage.  By  all  that's 
honourable  I  mean  nothing  but  the  cause ;  and  I  may  defy 
your  keenest  penetration  to  assign  a  satisfactory  reason  why 
Junius,  whoever  he  be,  should  have  a  personal  interest  in 

*  Mr.  Crosby  was,  at  the  date  of  this  letter.  Lord  Mayor,  and  Janins  or 
his  printer  has  here,  obviously  through  mistake,  snbstituted  his  name  for  i\iai 
9i  Mr.  Stiwbridge. 


70  LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS  AND  MB.   WITJCB6. 

giving  the  mayoralty  to  Mr.  Sawbridge,  rather  than  to  Mr 
Crosby. 

I  am  heartily  weary  of  writing,  and  shall  resei've  another 
subject,  on  which  I  mean  to  address  you,  for  another  oppor- 
tunity. I  think  that  this  letter,  if  you  act  upon  it,  should  be 
a  secret  to  everybody  but  Mr.  Sawbridge  and  my  Lord  Mayor 

JUNIUS*. 


No.  66. 


JUNIUS   TO  JOHN  WILKES,   ESQ. 

London,  September  7,  1771t. 

As  this  letter,  Sir,  has  no  relation  to  the  subject  of  my  last 
the  motives  upon  which  you  may  have  rejected  one  of  mj 
opinions  ought  not  to  influence  your  judgment  of  another. 
I  am  not  very  sanguine  in  my  expectations  of  persuading,  nor 
do  I  think  myself  entitled  to  quarrel  with  any  man  for  not 
following  my  advice;  yet  this,  I  believe,  is  a  species  of  in- 
justice you  have  often  experienced  from  your  friends.  From 
you.  Sir,  I  expect  in  return,  that  you  will  not  remember  how 
unsuccessfully  I  have  recommended  one  measure  to  your  con- 
sideration, lest  you  should  think  yourself  bound  to  assert  your 
consistency,  and,  in  the  true  spirit  of  persecution,  to  pass  the 

*  The  plan  recommended  by  Jonias  in  the  above  letter  was  not  acted 
npon  by  Mr.  Wilkes,  for  the  reasons  assigned  by  him  in  his  letter  of  Sept. 
12, 1771  (No.  67).  The  consequence  was,  that  Mr.  Alderman  Nash,  the 
ministerial  candidate,  was  elected  Lord  Mayor,  to  the  infinite  mortification 
of  Junius,  who,  in  Private  Letter  No.  56,  makes  the  following  observation 
upon  him  and  his  election.  ''  What  an  abandoned  prostituted  idiot  is  your 
Lord  Mayor  !  The  shameful  mismanagement  which  brought  him  into  office 
gave  me  the  first,  and  an  unconquerable  disgust."  The  subjoined  is  a  list  of  the 
candidates  for  that  office,  with  the  numbers  affixed  to  their  respective  namea 
as  they  stood  at  the  close  of  the  poll : —  * 

For  Mr.  Alderman  Nash  .  .  .  2199 
Mr.  Alderman  Sawbridge.  .  1879 
The  Lord  Mayor  ....  1795 
Mr.  Alderman  Hallifax  .  .  846 
Mr.  Alderman  Townshend  .  151 
Sir  Henry  Bankes  ....  86 
t  Marked  by  Mr.  Wilkes,  ** Received  in  Princes  Court,  Saturday,  Hept 
T,  1771." 


JUNIUS  TO  MK.  WILKES.  7'i 

^ame  sentence  in  differently  upon  all  mj  opinions.     Forgive 
this  levity,  and  now  to  the  business. 

A  man  who  honestly  engages  in  a  public  cause  must  pre- 
p^e  himself  for  events  which  will  at  once  demand  his  utmost 
patience,  and  rouse  his  warmest  indignation.  I  feel  myself, 
at  this  moment,  in  the  very  situation  I  describe ;  yet  from  the 
common  enemy  I  expect  nothing  but  hostilities  against  the 
people.  It  is  the  conduct  of  our  friends  that  surprises  and 
afflicts  me.  I  cannot  but  resent  the  injury  done  to  the  com- 
mon cause  by  the  assembly  at  the  London  Tavern,  nor  can  I 
conceal  "from  you  my  own  particular  disappointment.  They 
had  it  in  their  power  to  peiform  a  real  effectual  service  to  the 
nation ;  and  we  expected  from  them  a  proof,  not  only  of  their 
zeal,  but  of  their  judgment.  Whereas  the  measure  they  have 
adopted  is  so  shamefully  injudicious,  with  regard  to  its  de- 
clared object,  that,  in  my  opinion,  it  will,  and  reasonably 
ought,  to  make  their  zeal  very  questionable  with  the  people 
they  mean  to  serve.  When  I  see  a  measure  excellent  in 
itself,  and  not  absolutely  unattainable,  either  not  made  the 
principal  object,  or  .extravagantly  loaded  with  conditions  pal- 
pably absurd  or  impracticable,  I  cannot  easily  satisfy  myself 
that  the  man  who  proposes  it  is  quite  so  sincere  as  he  pre- 
tends to  be.  You  at  least,  Mr.  Wilkes,  should  have  shown 
more  temper  and  prudence,  and  a  better  knowledge  of  man- 
kind. No  personal  respects  whatsoever  should  have  per- 
suaded you  to  concur  in  these  ridiculous  resolutions.  But 
my  own  zeal,  I  perceive,  betrays  me :  I  will  endeavour  to  keep 
a  better  guard  upon  my  temper,  and  apply  to  your  judgment 
in  the  most  cautious  and  measured  language. 

I  object,  in  the  first  place,  to  the  bulk,  and  much  more  to 
the  style  of  your  resolutions  of  the  2drd  of  July*;  though 

*  A  copy  of  which  is  subjoiaed,  to  enable  the  reader  the  better  to  under- 
•land  Julius's  objections  to  them.     They  are  as  follow : — 

London  Tavern,  Jaly  23, 1771. 

8UPP0RTBB8  OV  THB  BILL  OF  RiaHTS. 

Savaob  Bab&ell,  Esq.,  in  the  Chair, 
lleiolved, 
That  the  preamble,  with  the  articles  reported  tLis  day  from  the  committee, 
be  printed  and  published  from  this  Society. 

Whoever  seriously  considers  the  conduct  of  administration,  both  at  homf 


72  LETTEBS  OF  JUNIUS  AND  MS.  WILKES. 

some  part  of  the  preamble  is  as  pointed  as  I  could  wish.  Yun 
talk  of  yourselves  with  too  much  authority  and  importance. 
By  assuming  this  false  pomp  and  air  of  consequence  you 
either  give  general  disgust,  or,  what  is  infinitely  more  cUm- 

and  abroad,  can  hardly  entertain  a  doubt  that  a  plan  is  formed  to  subvert 
the  constitation. 

In  the  same  manner,  whoerer  attentiyely  examines  into  the  proceedings 
of  the  piMent  House  of  Commons  must  apprehend  that  such  another 
House  for  seven  years,  after  the  termination  of  the  present  parliament,  would 
effectually  accomplish  the  views  of  the  court,  and  leave  no  hope  of  redress 
but  in  an  appeal  to  God. 

The  Middlesex  election,  taken  on  its  true  ground;  the  employment  of 
the  standing  army,  in  St.  George's  Fields;  the  granting  half  a  million, 
without  inquiring  into  the  expenditure  of  the  civil  list  money,  and  upon  the 
dai^rous  principle  of  considering  the  debts  of  the  dvil  list  as  the  debts 
of  the  nation,  and  encroaching,  to  discharge  them,  upon  the  sinking 
fund,  the  great  support  of  public  credit;  the  attempts  made  on  juries, 
the  last  sacred  bulwark  of  liberty  and  law ;  the  arbitrary  and  venal  hand 
with  which  government  is  conducted  in  Ireland;  the  new  and  most  un^ 
constitutional  mode  of  raising  a  revenue  on  the  people  of  America,  without 
asking  the  consent  of  their  representatives;  the  introduction  of  an  uni- 
versal excise  in  America,  instead  of  the  laws  of  customs ;  the  advancing 
the  military  above  the  civil  power,  and  employing  troops  to  awe  the  l^s* 
lature ;  all  these  are  pleasures  of  so  marked,  so  mischievous  a  nature, 
that  it  is  impossible  they  should  be  unfelt  or  misunderstood :  yet  these  are 
measures  which  the  House  of  Commons  have  acquiesced  in,  countenanced,  or 
executed. 

If  the  present  Hsnse  of  Commons  then  have  given  such  vital  wounds  to 
the  constitution,  who  is  it  can  doubt,  who  is  it  can  hope,  that  the  conduct  of 
such  another  House  will  not  be  mortal  to  our  liberties  1 

The  trustees  of  the  people  should  be  pure  of  all  interested  communica- 
tion with  the  court  or  its  ministers ;  yet  the  corrupt  correspondence  be- 
tween the  members  of  the  House  and  the  court  is  as  notorious  now  as 
it  is  abhorrent  from  every  great  and  good  purpose  of  their  institution. 
Placemen,  pensioners,  contractors,  and  receivers  of  lottery  tickets  abound 
to  such  a  degree  in  the  House  of  Commons  that  it  is  impossible  a  House  so 
constituted  can  do  their  duty  to  the  people. 

It  most  be  plain  to  the  most  common  apprehension  that  men  deputed 
by  the  people  to  watch  over  and  guard  their  rights  against  the  Crown 
and  its  ministers,  and,  for  that  purpose,  vested  with  the  transcendant  powers 
of  refusing  aid  to  the  one,  and  impeaching  the  other,  can  never  duly  exercise 
those  powers,  or  fulfil  the  intention  of  their  election,  if  they  are  kept  in  pay 
of  that  Crown  and  those  ministers.  What  is  the  plain  and  inevitable  conse 
quence,  then,  of  entrusting  such  men  with  the  guardianship  of  our  rights, 
but  that  our  rights  must  be  betrayed  and  violated  1  Thus  we  haye  seen 
a  House  of  Common  infringing,  as  the  court  had  pre-ordained,  the  sacred 
birthright  of  the  people  in  the  freedom  of  election  ;  erasing  a  judicial  record  ; 
committing  to  the  Tower,  and  threatciiirg  with  impeachmeBt,  tka  firiaads  ol 


JUNIUS  TO  MS.  WILKES.  lO 

gferous,  you  expose  yoarselves  to  be  laughed  at.  The  English 
Hre  a  fastidious  people,  and  will  not  submit  to  be  talked  to  in 
80  high  a  tone  by  a  set  of  private  gentlemen  of  whom  they 
know  nothing  but  that  they  call  themselves  Supporters  of  ih» 

tlie  people,  and  the  defenders  of  the  law  ;  while  the  fitTonrites  of  the  court 
•re  saitered  to  sport  with  the  laws,  and  trample  on  the  constitution,  not 
only  with  impunity,  but  with  approbation ;  curbing  the  people  rigorously, 
and  without  feeling ;  while  they  uphold  ministers,  who  are  abhorred  by  the 
nation,  in  the  most  dangerous  and  alarming  exertions  of  power ;  granting 
money  with  the  most  liberal,  the  most  licentious  hand  to  those  ministers 
against  whom  the  Toice  of  the  people  calls  loudly  for  impeachment  Wo 
have  a  suspecting  people,  and  a  confiding  representative;  a  complaining 
people,  and  an  exulting  representative  ;  a  remonstrating  people,  and  an  ad- 
dressing adulating  representative — a  representative  that  is  an  engine  of  op- 
pression in  the  hand  of  the  Grown,  instead  of  being  a  grand  controlling  in- 
quest in  £eivour  of  the  people.  Such  a  representative  is  a  monster  in  the 
eonstitution,  which  must  fill  every  considerate  man  with  grief,  alarm,  as- 
tonishment, and  indignation. 

It  is  corruption  that  has  engendered,  nursed,  and  nourished  the  monster. 
Against  such  corruption,  then,  all  men,  who  value  the  preservation  of  their 
dearest  rights,  are  called  upon  to  unite.  Let  us  r^nember  that  we  our- 
selves, our  children,  and  our  posterity,  must  be  freemen  or  slaves  as  we 
preserve  or  prostitute  the  noble  birthright  our  ancestors  bequeathed  us  :  for 
should  this  corruption  be  once  firmly  rooted,  we  shall  be  an  undone 
people. 

Already  is  it  fixed  among  the  representative,  and  we  taste,  a  thousand 
ways,  the  bitter  fruit  which  it  produces ;  should  it  extend  equally  to  the 
electors,  we  must  fall,  as  Greece  and  Kome  have  &llen,  by  the  same 
means,  from  the  same  liberty  and  glory,  to  slavery,  contempt,  and 
wretchedness. 

Impressed  with  these  ideas,  the  gentlemen  who  compose  the  Society  o{ 
the  Bill  of  Rights,  have  determined  to  use  their  utmost  endeavours  to  exter- 
minate this  corruption,  by  providing  for  the  freedom  of  election,  the  equal 
representation  of  the  people,  the  integrity  of  the  representative,  and  the  re 
dress  of  grievances.  It  is  their  great  wish  to  render  the  House  of  Commons 
what  it  constitutionally  ought  to  be,  the  temple  of  liberty.  With  these  views 
they  have  drawn  up  the  following  articles,  which  they  now  submit  to  the 
electors  of  Great  Britain.  At  the  same  time  they,  with  great  deference,  take 
the  liberty  of  recommending  to  the  independent  electors  to  form  those  articles 
into  a  solemn  declaration,  which  the  candidates  whom  they  support  shall  be 
reqnired,  as  the  indispensable  condition  of  their  being  supported,  to  sign  and 
seal,  publicly,  at  the  general  meeting,  or  at  the  place  of  election,  binding 
themselves,  by  oath,  to  a  due  and  sacred  observance  of  what  is  therein 
contained. 

The  declaration  so  executed  may  be  deposited  in  the  hands  of  the  coroner, 
derk  of  the  peace,  or  magistrate  before  whom  the  oath  wa«  made,  as  a  public 
memorial  of  what  the  constituent  has  demanded,  and  thr  representative  ha# 
pledged  himielf  to  perform. 


74  LETTERS   OP    JUNIUS  AND  HB.  WILKES.      . 

Bill  of  Rights.  There  are  questions,  which,  in  good  policy, 
you  should  never  provoke  the  people  in  general  to  ask  them- 
selves. At  the  same  time,  Sir,  I  am  far  from  meaning  to 
undervalue  the  institution  of  this  Society.  On  the  contrary, 
I  think  the  plan  was  admirahle ;  that  if  has  already  been  of 
signal  service  to  the  public,  and  may  be  of  much  greater ;  and 
1  do  most  earnestly  wish  that  you  would  consider  of,  and 
promote  a  plan  for  forming  constitutional  clubs  all  through 
the  kingdom.  A  measure  of  this  kind  would  alarm  govern- 
ment more,  and  be  of  more  essential  service  to  the  cause,  than 
anything  that  can  be  done  relative  to  new- modelling  the 
House  of  Commons.  You  see,  then,  that  my  objections  are 
directed  to  the  particular  measure,  not  to  the  general  insti- 
tution. 

In  the  consideration  of  this  measure,  my  first  objection  goes 

1.  Yoa  shall  consent  to  no  supplies  without  a  previous  redress  of 
^eTances. 

2.  You  shall  promote  a  law,  subjecting  each  candidate  to  an  oath,  against 
having  used  bribery,  or  any  other  illegal  means  of  compassing  his  election. 

8.  You  shall  promote,  to  the  utmost  of  your  power,  a  full  and  equal  repre- 
sentation of  the  people  in  parliament. 

4.  You  shall  endeavour  to  restore  annual  parliaments. 

5.  You  shall  promote  a  pension  and  place-bill,  enacting,  That  any  member 
who  receives  a  place,  pension,  contract,  lottery  ticket,  or  any  other  emolu* 
ment  whatsoever  from  the  Crown,  or  enjoys  profit  from  any  such  place, 
pension,  &c,  shall  not  only  vacate  his  seat,  but  be  absolutely  ineligibls 
during  his  continuance  under  such  undue  influence. 

6.  Yon  shall  impeach  the  ministers  who  advised  the  violating  the  right 
of  the  freeholders  in  the  Middlesex  election ;  and  t^4  military  murder^  in 
St.  George's  Fields. 

7.  You  shall  make  strict  inquiry  into  the  conduct  of  judges  touching 
Junes. 

8.  You  shall  make  strict  inquiry  into  the  application  of  the  public  money. 

9.  You  shall  use  your  utmost  endeavours  to  have  the  resolution  of  the 
House  of  Commons  expunged  by  which  the  magistrates  of  the  city  of  London 
were  arbitrarily  imprisoned  for  strictly  adhering  to  their  charter  and  their 
oaths ;  and  also  that  resolution  by  which  a  judicial  record  was  erased  to  Stop 
the  course  of  justice. 

10.  You  shall  attend  to  the  grievances  of  our  fellow-subjects  in  Irelaiid» 
md  second  the  complaints  they  may  bring  to  the  throne. 

11.  Tou  shall  endeavour  to  restore  to  America  the  essential  right  oi  taxa* 
tion,  by  representatives  of  their  own  free  election ;  repealing  the  acts  pa«a4 
m  violation  of  that  right  since  the  year  1763,  and  the  univenal  excise,  se 
notoriously  incompatible  with  every  principle  of  British  liberty,  which  hai 
Seen  Jately  substituted,  in  the  odoniet,  for  the  laws  of  eastoms. 

BAJAxm  Baabbll^  Esq.,  Chairman. 


TONIUS  TO  MR.  WILKER.  75 

(o  the  declared  purpose  of  'the  resolutions,  in  the  terms  and 
mode  in  which  you  have  described  it,  viz.  the  extermination  oj 
corruption.  In  my  opinion,  you  grasp  at  the  impossible^  and 
lose  the  really  attainable*  Without  plaguing  you  or  myself 
with  a  logical  argument  upon  a  speculative  question,  I  will 
ingly  appeal  to  your  own  candour  and  judgment.  Can  any 
man  in  his  senses  affirm,  that,  as  things  are  now  circum 
Btanced  in  this  country,  it  is  possible  t&  eopterminate  corrup* 
tion  f  Do  you  seriously  think  it  possible  to  carry  through 
both  Houses  such  a  place-bill  as  you  describe  in  the  fifth 
article ;  or,  supposing  it  carried,  that  it  would  not  be  evaded  ? 
When  you  talk  of  contracts  and  lottery  tickets,  do  you  think 
that  any  human  law  can  really  prevent  their  being  distributed 
and  accepted,  or  do  you  only  intend  to  mortify  Townshend  and 
Harley  ?  In  short.  Sir,  would  you,  bond  fide,  and  as  a  man 
of  honour,  give  it  for  your  expectation  and  opinion  that  there 
is  a  single  county  or  borough  in  the  kingdom  that  will  form 
the  declaration  recommended  to  them  in  these  resolutions, 
and  enforce  it  upon  the  candidates  ?  For  myself,  I  will  tell 
you  freely,  not  what  I  think,  but  what  I  know;  the  resolutions 
are  either  totally  neglected  in  the  country,  or,  if  read,  are 
laughed  at,  and  by  people  who  mean  as  well  to  the  cause  as 
any  of  us. 

With  regard  to  the  articles  taken  separately,  I  own  I  am 
concerned  to  see  that  the  great  condition  which  ought  to  be  the 
nne  qud  non  of  parliamentary  qualification,  which  ought  to  be 
the  basis,  as  it  assuredly  will  be  the  only  support,  of  every 
barrier  raised  in  defence  of  the  constitution,  I  mean  a  decla- 
ration  upon  oath  to  shorten  the  duration  of  parliaments,  is  re- 
duced to  the  fourth  rank  in  the  esteem  of  the  Society ;  and, 
even  in  that  place,  far  from  being  insisted  on  with  firmness 
and  vehemence,  seems  to  have  been  particularly  slighted  in 
the  expression,  you  shall  endeavour  to  restore  annual  parlia- 
mejits,  '  Are  these  the  terms  which  men  who  are  in  earnest 
make  use  of  when  the  salus  reipublioB  is  at  stake !  I  expected 
other  language  from  Mr.  Wilkes.  Besides  my  objection  in 
point  of  form,  I  disapprove  highly  of  the  meaning  of  the  fourth 
article,  as  it  stands.  Whenever  the  question  shall  be  se- 
riously agitated,  I  will  endeavour  (and  if  I  live  will  assuredly 
attempt  it)  to  convince  the  English  nation,  by  arguments,  to 
iny  understanding  unanswerable,  that  they  ought  to  insist 


76         LETTEBS  OF  Jtmi08  AND  MB.  WILKES. 

upon  a  triennial,  and  banish  the  idea  of  an   annual  pai^ 
I'lament. 

Article  1.  The  terms  of  the  first  article  \vould  have  been 
▼eiy  proper  a  century  or  two  ago,  but  they  are  not  adapted 
to  the  present  state  of  the  constitution.  The  King  does  not 
act  directly  either  in  imposing  or  redressing  grievances.  We 
need  not  now  bribe  the  crown  to  do  us  justice ;  and,  as  to  the 
refusal  of  supplies,  we  might  punish  ourselves  indeed,  but  it 
would  be  no  way  compulsory  upon  the  King.  With  respect  to 
his  civil  list,  he  is  already  independent,  or  might  be  so,  if  he 
has  common  sense,  or  common  resolution:  and  as  for  refusing 
to  vote  the  army  or  navy,  I  hope  we  shall  never  be  mad 
enough  to  try  an  experiment  every  way  so  hazardous.  But, 
in  fact,  the  effort  would  be  infinitely  too  great  for  the  occasion. 
All  we  want  is  an  honest  representative,  or  at  least  such  a 
one  as  will  have  some  respect  for  the  constituent  body.  For- 
merly the  House  of  Commons  were  compelled  to  bargain  with 
the  Sovereign.  At  present  they  may  prescribe  their  own 
conditions.  So  much,  in  general,  for  grievances:  as  to  par- 
ticular grievances,  almost  all  those  we  complain  of  are,  ap* 
parently,  the  acts  either  of  the  Lords  or  the  Commons.  The 
appointment  of  unworthy  ministers  is  not  strictly  a  grievance 
(that  is,  a  legal  subject  of  complaint  to  the  King)  until  those 
ministers  are  arraigned  and  convicted  in  due  course  of  law. 
It  after  that,  the  King  should  persist  in  keeping  them  in 
office,  it  would  be  a  grievance  in  the  strict  legal  sense  of  the 
word,  and  would  undoubtedly  justify  rebellion  according  to 
the  forms,  as  well  as  the  spirit  of  the  constitution.  I  am  far 
from  condemning  the  late  addresses  to  the  throne.  They 
ought  to  be  incessantly  repeated.  The  people,  by  the  singular 
situation  of  their  affairs,  are  compelled  to  do  the  duty  of  the 
House  01  Commons. 

Article  2.  I  object  to  the  second  article,  because  I  think 
that  multiplying  oaths  is  only  multiplying  perjury.  Besides 
this,  I  am  satisfied  that,  with  a  triennial  parliament  (and 
without  it  all  other  provisions  are  nugatory),  Mr.  Grenville  s 
bill  is,  or  may  be  made,  a  sufficient  guard  against  any  gross 
or  flagrant  offences  in  this  way. 

Article  3.  The  terms  of  the  third  article  are  too  loose  and 
indefinite  to  make  a  distinct  or  serious  impression.  That  the 
people  are  not  equally  and  fully  represented  is  unquestionable 


JUNIUS  TO  MB  WXKES.  77 

Bttt  let  us  take  care  what  we  attempt.  We  may  demolish 
the  renerable  fabric  we  intend  to  repair;  and  where  is  the 
strength  and  virtue  to  erect  a  better  in  its  stead  ?  I  should 
not,  ior  my  own  part,  be  so  much  moved  at  the  corrupt  and 
odious  practices  by  which  inconsiderable  men  get  into  parlia- 
ment ;  nor  even  at  the  want  of  a  perfect  representation  (and 
certainly  nothing  can  be  less  reconcilable  to  the  theory  than 
the  present  practice  of  the  constitution),  if  mecms  could 
be  found  to  compel  such  men  to  do  their  duty  (i)i  essentials, 
at  least)  when  they  are  in  parliament.  Now,  Sir,  I  am  con- 
vinced that,  if  shortening  the  duration  of  parliaments  (which 
in  effect  is  keeping  the  representative  under  the  rod  of  the 
constituent)  be  not  made  the  basis  of  our  new  parliamentary 
jurbprudeBk  other  checks  or  improvements  8i|nify  nothi^. 
On  the  contraiy,  if  this  be  made  the  foundation,  other 
measures  may  come  in  aid,  and,  as  auxiliaries,  be  of  consider 
able  advantage.  Lord  Ghatham^s  project,  for  instance,  of  in- 
creasing the  number  of  Knights  of  Shires,  appears  to  mo 
admirable,  and  the  moment  we  have  obtained  a  triennial  par- 
liament it  ought  to  be  tried.  As  to  cutting  away  the  rotten 
boroughs,  I  am  as  much  offended  as  any  man  at  seeing 
so  many  of  them  under  the  direct  iofluence  of  the  crown,  or 
at  the  disposal  of  private  persons ;  yet,  I  own  I  have  both 
doubts  and  apprehensions  in  regard  to  the  remedy  you 
propose.  I  shall  be  charged,  perhaps,  with  an  unusual  want 
of  political  intrepidity  when  I  honestly  confess  to  you,  that  I 
am  startled  at  the  idea  of  so  extensive  an  amputation.  In 
the  first  place,  I  question  the  power,  de  jure,  of  the  legis- 
lature to  disfranchise  a  number  of  boroughs  upon  the  general 
ground  of  improving  the  constitution.  There  cannot  be  a 
doctrine  more  fatal  to  the  liberty  and  property  we  are  con- 
tending for  than  that  which  confounds  the  idea  of  a  supreme 
and  an  arbitrary  legislature.  I  need  not  point  out  to  you  the 
fatal  purposes  to  which  it  has  been  and  may  be  applied.  If 
we  are  sincere  in  the  political  creed  we  profess,  there  are 
many  things  which  we  ought  to  ajfirm,  cannot  be  done  by 
King,  Lords,  and  Commons.  Among  these  I  reckon  the  dis- 
franchismg  a  borough  with  a  general  view  to  improvement.  I 
consider  it  as  equivalent  to  robbing  the  parties  concerned  of 
their  freehold,  of  their  birthright  I  say  that  although  this 
birthright  may  be  forfeited,  or  tlie  exercise  of  it  suspended  in 


78  LETTEBS  OF  JUNIUS  AND  MB.  WILKES. 

particular  cases,  it  cannot  be  taken  away  by  a  general  la^ 
for  any  real  or  pretended  purpose  of  impronng  the  con- 
stitution. I  believe  there  is  no  power  in  this  country  to 
make  such  a  law.  Supposing  the  attempt  made,  I  am 
persuaded  you  cannot  mean  that  either  King  or  Lords  should 
take  an  active  part  in  it  A  bill  which  only  touches  the 
representation  of  the  people  must  originate  in  the  House  of 
Commons,  in  the  formation  and  mode  of  passing  it.  The 
exclusive  right  of  the  Commons  must  be  asserted  as  scrupu- 
lously as  in  the  case  of  a  Money  Bill.  Now,  Sir,  I  should  be 
glad  to  know  by  what  kind  of  reasoning  it  can  be  proved  that 
Qiere  is  a  power  vested  in  the  representative  to  destroy  his 
immediate  constituent :  from  whence  could  he  possibly  derive 
it?  A  courtier,  I  know,  will  be  ready  enough  to  maintain 
the  affirmative.  The  doctrine  suits  him  exactly,  because  it 
gives  an  unlimited  operation  to  the  influence  of  the  crown. 
But  we,  Mr.  Wilkes,  must  hold  a  different  language.  It  is 
no  answer  to  me  to  say,  that  the  bill,  when  it  passes  the 
House  of  Commons,  is  the  act  of  the  majority,  and  not  of  the 
representatives  of  the  particular  boroughs  concerned.  Jf  the 
majority  can  disfranchise  ten  boroughs,  why  not  twenty? 
Why  not  the  whole  kingdom  ?  Why  should  not  they  make 
their  own  seats  in  parliament  for  life  ?  When  the  Septennial 
Act  passed,  the  legislature  did  what  apparently  and  palpably 
they  had  no  power  to  do ;  but  they  did  more  than  people  ia 
general  were  aware  of:  they  disfranchised  the  whole  king 
dom  for  four  years.  For  argument's  sake,  I  will  now  suppose 
that  the  expediency  of  the  measure  and  the  power  of  parlia- 
ment were  unquestionable.  Still  you  will  find  an  insurmountable 
difficulty  in  due  execution.  When  all  your  instruments  of 
amputation  are  prepared — when  the  unhappy  patient  lies 
bound  at  your  feet,  without  the  .possibility  oi  resistance,  by 
what  infallible  rule  will  you  direct  the  operation  ?  When  yoa 
propose  to  cut  away  the  rotten  parts,  can  you  tell  us  what 
parts  are  perfectly  sound?  Are  there  any  certain  limits,  in 
fjBUJt  or  theory,  to  inform  you  at  what  point  you  must  stop— 
at  what  point  the  mortification  ends  ?  To  a  man  so  capable 
of  observation  and  reflection  as  you  are,  it  is  unnecessary  to 
say  all  that  might  be  said  upon  the  subject.  Besides  that  1 
approve  highly  of  Lord  Chatham's  idea  of  **  infusing  a  portion 
of  new  health  into  the  constitution  to  enable  it  to  bear  its 


JfTNIUS  TO   MB.   WILKES.  79 

infirmities*'  (a  brilliant  expression,  and  fall  of  intrinsic 
wisdom),  other  reasons  concur  in  persuading  me  to  adopt  it. 
I  have  no  objection  to  paying  him  such  compliments  as  earn' 
a  condition  with  them,  and  either  bind  him  firmly  to  the 
cause,  or  become  the  bitterest  reproach  to  him  if  he  deserts 
it.  Of  this  last  I  have  not  the  most  distant  suspicion. 
There  is  another  man,  indeed,  with  whose  conduct  I  am  not 
so  completely  satisfied  *.  Yet  even  he,  I  think,  has  not  reso- 
lution enough  to  do  anything  flagrantly  impudent  in  the  face 
of  his  country.  At  the  same  time  that  I  think  it  good  policy 
to  pay  those  compliments  to  Lord  Chatham,  which,  in  truth, 
he  has  nobly  deserved,  I  should  be  glad  to  mortify  those  con- 
temptible creatures,  who  call  themselves  noblemen,  whose 
worthless  importance  depends  entirely  upon  their  influence 
over  boroughs,  which  cannot  be  safely  diminished  but  by  in^ 
creasing  the  power  of  the  counties  at  large.  Among  tJiese 
men,  I  cannot  but  distinguish  the  meanest  of  the  human 
species,  the  whole  race  of  the  Conways.  I  have  but  one  word 
to  add — I  would  not  give  representatives  to  those  great 
trading  towns  which  have  none  at  present.  If  the  merchant 
and  the  manufacturer  must  be  really  represented,  let  them 
become  freeholders  by  their  industry,  and  let  the  representa- 
tion  of  the  county  be  increased.  You  will  find  the  interrup. 
tion  of  business  in  those  towns,  by  the  triennial  riot  and 
cabals  of  an  election,  too  dear  a  price  for  the  nugatory  privi- 
lege of  sending  members  to  parliament-)-. 

The  remaining  articles  will  not  require  a  long  discussion — 
of  the  fourth  and  fifth  I  have  spoken  already. 

Article  6.  The  measures  recommended  in  the  sixth  are  un- 
exceptionable. My  only  doubt  is,  how  can  an  act,  apparently 
done  by  the  House  of  Commons,  be  fixed,  by  sufiicient  legal 
evidence,  upon  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  or  Lord  North,  of  whose 
guilt  I  am  nevertheless  completely  satisfied.    As  for  Lord 

*  Possibly  Lord  Camden  is  the  person  here  alluded  to;  as  Janins,  in 
Letter  69,  vol.  i.  p.  467,  seems  to  entertain  some  suspicion  of  this  nobleman, 
from  his  renewed  intimacy  with  the  Duke  of  Grafton. 

i-  The  train  of  reasoning  by  Junius  on  constitutional  objections  to  tlM 
disfranchisement  of  the  nomination  boroughs,  and  the  transfer  of  repre* 
sentative  rights  to  manufacturing  towns,  had  little  weight  with  the  parlia- 
mentary reformers  of  1832.  The  subject  is  well  handl^  by  Mr.  Wilket  I'fi 
hie  iefky, — Ss. 


80  LETTEB9   OF  JUNTOS  AND   MB.   WJLKES. 

Wejmo'ith  and  Lord  Barrington,  their  own  letters  are  a  suffi- 
cient ground  of  impeachment. 

Article  7.  The  seventh  article  is  also  very  proper  and 
necessary.  The  impeachment  of  Lord  Mansfield,  upon  his 
own  paper,  is  indispensable.  Yet  sufifer  me  to  guard  you 
against  the' seducing  idea  of  concurring  in  any  vote,  or  encou- 
raging any  bill,  which  may  pretend  to  ascertain,  while  in 
reality  it  limits,  the  constitutional  power  of  juries.  I  would 
have  their  right  to  return  a  general  verdict  in  all  cases  what- 
soever considered  as  a  part  of  the  constitution,  fundamental, 
sacred,  and  no  more  questionable  by  the  legislature  than 
whether  the  government  of  the  country  shall  be  by  King, 
Lords,  and  Commons.  Upon  this  point,  an  Enacting  BUI 
would  be  pernicious ;  a  Declaratory  Bill,  to  say  the  best  of  it, 
useless. 

Article  8.  I  think  the  eighth  article  would  be  more  pro- 
perly expressed  thus : — You  shall  grant  no  money ^  unless  for 
services  known  to,  and  approved  of  by,  Parliament.  In  general 
the  supplies  are  appropriated,  and  cannot  easily  be  misapplied. 
The  House  of  Commons  are  indeed  too  ready  in  granting 
large  sums  under  the  head  of  extraordinaries  incurred,  and 
w)t  provided  for.  But  the  accounts  lie  before  them,  it  is 
their  own  fault  if  they  do  not  examine  them.  The  manner 
in  which  the  late  debt  upon  the  civil  list  was  pretended  to  be 
incurred,  and  really  paid,  demands  a  particular  examination. 
Never  was  there  a  more  impudent  outrage  offered  to  a  patient 
people. 

Article  9.  The  ninth  is  indispensable ;  but  I  think  the 
matter  of  it  rather  fit  for  instruction  than  for  the  declaration 
you  have  in  view.  I  am  very  apprehensive  of  clogging  the 
declaration,  and  making  it  too  long. 

Articles  10  and  11.  In  the  tenth  and  eleventh  you  are  very 
civil  to  Ireland  and  America ;  and  if  you  mean  nothing  but 
ostentation,  it  may  possibly  answer  your  purpose.  Your  care 
of  Ireland  is  much  to  be  commended.  But  I  think,  in  good 
policy,  you  may  as  well  complete  a  reformation  at  home  beforo 
you  attempt  to  carry  your  improvements  to  such  a  distance. 
Clearing  die  fountain  is  the  best  and  shortest  way  to  purify 
the  stream.  As  to  taxing  the  Americans  by  their  own  repre- 
sentatives, I  confess  I  do  not  perfectly  understand  you.     li 


JUNIUS  TO   MB.   WILKES.  8) 

jou  propose  that,  in  the  article  of  taxation,  they  stiould  here 
8ft.er  be  left  to  the  authority  of  their  respective  assemblies,  I 
most  own  I  think  you  had  no  business  to  revive  a  question 
which  should,  and  probably  would,  have  lain  dormant  for  ever. 
If  you  mean  that  the  Americans  should  be  authorized  to  send 
their  representatives  to  the  British  Parliament,  I  shall  be 
contented  with  referring  you  to  what  Ddr.  Burke  has  said 
upon  this  subject,  and  will  not  venture  to  add  anything  of  my 
own,  for  fear  of  discovering  an  offensive  disregard  of  your 
opinion.  Since  the  repeal  of  the  Stamp  Act,  I  know  of  no 
acts  tending  to  tax  the  Americans,  except  that  which  creates 
the  tea  duty ;  and  even  thatxan  hardly  be  .called  ivienM 
Yet  it  ought  to  be  repealed  us  an  impolitic  act,  not  as  an 
oppressive  one.  It  ^preserves )  the  contention  between  the 
moth^  country  and  the  colonies,  whife  everything  worth  con- 
tending for  is  in  reality  given  up.  When  this  act  is  repealed, 
I  presume  you  will  turn  your  thoughts  to  the  postage  of 
letters ;  a  tax  imposed  by  authority  of  Parliament,  and  levied 
in  the  very  heart  of  the  colonies.  I  am  not  sufficiently  in- 
formed upon  the  subject  of  that  excise,  which  you  say  is  sub- 
stituted in  North  America  to  the  laws  of  customs,  to  deliver 
such  an  opinion  upon  it  as  I  would  abide  by.  Yet  I  can 
easily  comprehend  that,  admitting  the  necessity  of  raising  & 
revenue  for  the  support  of  government  there,  any  ol£er 
revenue  laws  but  those  of  excise  would  be  nugatory  in  such  a 
countiy  as  America.  I  say  this  with  great  diffidence  as  to 
the  point  in  question,  and  with  a  positive  protest  against  any 
conclusion  from  America  to  Great  Britain. 

If  these  observations  shall  appear  to  deserve  the  attention 
of  the  Society,  it  is  for  them  to  consider  what  use  may  be 
made  of  them.  I  know  how  difficult  and  irksome  it  is  to 
tread  back  the  steps  we  have  taken ;  yet,  if  any  part  of  what 
I  have  submitted  to  you  cames  reason  and  conviction  with  it, 
I  hope  tluit  no  false  shame  will  influence  our  friends  at  the 
London  Tavern. 

I  do  not  deny  that  I  expect  my  opinions  upon  these  points 
should  have  some  degree  of  weight  with  you.  I  have  served 
Mr.  Wilkes,  and  am  still  capable  of  serving  him.  I  have 
fedthfiilly  served  tbe  public,  without  the  possibility  of  a  per 
Mnal  advantage.  As  Junius  I  can  never  expect  to  be 
rewarded.    The  secret  is  too  important  to  be  committed  to 

VOL.  n.  < 


M  LETTERS   OF  JUNIUS  AND   Hit    WILSBS. 

my  great  inan*s  discretion.     If  views  of  interest  or  ambition 

0ould  tempt  me  to  betray  my  own  secret,  how  could  I  flatter 

mjTSelf  that  the  man  I  trusted  would  not  act  upon  the  same 

principles,  and  sacrifice  me  at  once  to  the  Eing*s  curiosity 

and  resentment?    Speaking  therefore  as  a  disinterested  man, 

I  have  a  claim  to  your  attention.     Let  my  opinions  be  fiEdrly 

3zamined. 

JUNIUS. 

P.  S.  As  you  will  probably  never  hear  from  me  again,  I 
will  not  omit  this  opportuni^  of  observing  to  you  that  I  am 
not  properly  supported  in  the  newspapers.  One  would  think 
that  all  the  fools  were  of  the  other  side  of  the  question.  As 
to  myself,  it  is  of  little  moment.  I  can  brush  away  the 
swarming  insects  whenever  I  think  proper.  But  it  is  bad 
policy  to  let  it  appea^r,  in  any  instance,  that  we  have  not 
numbers  as  well  as  justice  of  our  side.  I  wish  you  would 
contrive  that  tbe  receipt  of  this  letter  and  my  last  might  be 
jarely  acknowledged  by  a  hint  in  the  Public  Advertiser. 


No.  67. 

TO  JUNIUS. 

Prince's  Court,  Monday,  Septamber  9. 

Mb.  Wilkes  had  the  honour  of  receiving  from  the  same  gen- 
tleman two  excellent  letters  on  important  subjects,  one  dated 
Aug.  21,  the  other  Sept.  7.  He  begs  the  favour  of  the 
author  to  prescribe  the  mode  of  Mr.  Wilkes's  communicating 
his  answer*. 


No.  68. 

TO  J.  WILKES,  ESQ. 

September  10,  1771. 

You  may  intrust  Woodfall  with  a  letter  for  me.    Leave  the 
rest  to  his  management. 

I  expect  that  you  will  not  enter  into  any  explanationB  with 
aim  whatsoever  f. 

*  This  note  waf  inserted  in  the  Public  Advertiser  of  Septeirher  10, 17TL 
t  Mr  Wilkes  has  wriUen  on  it,  "  Beceived  by  the  Femur  Pott." 


MB.  WILXES  TO  JXJKIUS  83 


No.  69. 


MB.   WILXES  TO  JUNIUS. 


Su,  September  12, 1771. 

I  00  not  mean  to  indulge  the  impertinent  curiosity  of  finding 
out  the  most  important  secret  of  our  times,  the  author  of 
Junius.  I  will  not  attempt  with  profane  hands  to  tear  the 
sacred  veil  of  the  sanctuary;  I  am  disposed,  with  the  in- 
habitants of  Attica,  to  erect  an  altar  to  the  unknown  god  of 
our  political  idolatry,  and  will  be  content  to  worship  him  in 
clouds  and  darkness. 

This  veiy  circumstance,  however,  deeply  embarrasses  me 
The  first  letter  with  which  I  was  honoured  by  Junius,  called 
for  a  thousand  anecdotes  of  Crosby,  Sawbridge,  and  Townshend, 
too  tedious,  too  minute,  to  throw  upon  paper,  which  yet  must 
be  acted  upon,  and,  as  he  well  knows,  mark  the  character  of 
men.  Junius  has,  in  my  idea,  too  favourable  sentiments  of 
Sawbridge.  I  allow  him  honest,  but  think  he  has  more 
mulishness  than  understanding,  more  understanding  ilian 
candour.  He  is  become  the  absolute  dupe  of  Malagrida's 
gang.  He  has  declared  that,  if  he  was  chosen  mayor  this 
year,  he  would  not  serve  the  ofiGice,  but  fine,  because  Townshend 
ought  to  be  mayor.  Such  a  declaration  is  certain,  and  in  my 
opinion  it  borders  on  insanity  To  me  Sawbridge  complained 
toe  last  year  that  his  sherifialty  passed  in  a  continual  secret 
cabal  of  Beckford,  Townshend,  and  Home,  without  the  com- 
munication of  anything  to  him  till  the  moment  of  execution. 
Sawbridge  has  openly  acted  against  us.  Our  troops  will  not 
be  brought  at  present  to  fight  his  battles.  Mrs.  Macauley 
has  warmly  espoused  the  common  cause,  and  severely  con- 
demns her  brother.  Any  overtures  to  Sawbridge,  I  believe, 
would  have  been  rejected,  perhaps  treated  with  contempt,  by 
not  the  best  bred  man  in  the  island.  How  could  I  begin  a 
negociation  when  I  was  alre^y  pledged  to  Crosby,  who  has 
fed  himself  with  the  hope  of  that  and  the  membership,  by 
which  I  overcame  his  natural  timidity  ?  Junius  sees  the  con- 
fidence I  place  in  him.  Could  there  be  a  prospect  of  any 
cordiality  between  Sawbridge  and  the  popular  party,  at  least 
>o  soon  as  his  mayoralty?  I  should  fear  the  Mansion  House 
would  be  besieged  and  taken  by  the  banditti  of  the  Shelbume& 

9  3 


84  LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS  AND   MB.  WILKES. 

But  what  I  im  sure  will  be  decisive  to  Junius,  I  was  engaged 
to  Crosby  before  1  received  the  letter  of  Aug.  21,  and  I  have 
not  since  found  in  him  the  least  inclination  to  yield  the 
favourite  point.  The  membership  of  the  city  is  a  security  U* 
the  public  for  his  steadiness  in  the  cause.  Surely  then  it 
would  have  been  imprudent  to  have  wished  a  change.  My 
duty  to  the  people  only  makes  me  form  a  wish  for  Crosby 
To  make  Crosby  mayor,  it  is  necessary  to  return  to  the  court 
of  aldermen  another  man  so  obnoxious  that  it  is  impossible 
for  them  to  elect  him.  Biidgen  I  take  to  be  this  man. 
While  he  presided  in  the  city,  he  treated  them  with  insolence, 
was  exceedingly  rude  and  scurrilous  to  them  personally, 
starved  them  at  the  few  entertainments  he  gave,  and  pocketed 
the  city  cash.  As  he  has  always  voted  on  the  popular  side,  we 
are  justified  to  the  livery  in  the  recommendation  of  him,  and 
the  rest  will  be  guessed.  Crosby  will  probably  be  the  locuM 
tenens  of  Bridgen,  if  Bridgen  is  elected.  I  wrote  the  letter 
on  this  subject  in  the  Public  Advertiser  of  Sept.  5.  The 
argument  there  is  specious,  although  my  private  opinion  is, 
the  House  of  Commons  will  not  again  fcul  into  that  snare. 
Into  another  I  am  satisfied  they  will.  The  House  of  Lords 
too,  will,  I  think,  furnish  the  most  interesting  scene,  in  con- 
sequence of  the  powers  they  usurp,  and  the  sherifif  means  the 
attack.  I  wish  this  great  business,  as  I  have  projected  it, 
could  be  unravelled  in  a  letter  or  two  to  Junius,  but  the 
detail  is  too  long  and  intricate.  How  greatly  is  it  to  be 
lamented  that  the  few  real  friends  of  the  public  have  so  little 
communication  of  counsels,  so  few  and  only  distant  means  of 
a  reserved  intercourse ! 

I  have  nowhere  met  with  more  excellent  and  abundant 
political  matter  than  in  the  letter  of  Junius  respecting  the 
Bill  of  Rights.  He  ought  to  know  from  me  that  the  Ame- 
rican Dr.  Lee  (the  Gazetteer's  Junius  Americanus)  was  the 
author  of  the  too  long  Preamble,  Articles,  &c.  They  were, 
indeed,  submitted  to  me  on  the  morning  of  the  day  on  which 
they  passed,  but  I  made  few  corrections.  I  disliked  the 
extretue  verbiage  of  every  part,  and  wished  the  whole  put 
again  on  the  anvil.  Sir  Joseph  Mawbey  and  I  were  of 
opinion  to  adjourn  the  business  for  a  reconsideration,  but  the 
majority  of  the  members  were  too  impatient  to  have  something 
go  forth  ill  their  names  to  the  public.     It  would  have  hof>j 


MB.  WILKES  TO  JUNIUS.  85 

bighlj  imprudent  in  Sir  Joseph  or  me  to  thwart  thera  m 
8o  favourite  a  point,  and  the  substance  I  indeed  greatly 
approve.  At  all  times  I  hate  taking  in  other  people's  foid 
Mnen  to  wash.  The  Society  of  the  Bill  of  Bights  have  been 
called  my  committee,  and  it  has  been  said  that  they  were 
governed  entirely  by  me.  This  has  spread  a  jealousy  even 
among  my  friends.  I  was  therefore  necessitated  to  act  the 
most  cautious  and  prudent  part.  Tou  cannot  always  do  all 
the  good  you  wish,  and  you  are  sometimes  reduced  to  the 
necessity  of  yielding  in  a  particular  moment  to  conciliate  the 
doubtful,  the  peevish,  or  the  refractory.  Junius  may  be 
assured  that  I  will  warmly  recommend  the  formation  of  con- 
stitutional clubs  in  several  parts  of  the  kingdom.  I  am 
satisfied  that  nothing  would  more  alarm  the  ministry.  I 
agree  that  the  shortening  the  duration  of  parliaments  is  the 
first  and  most  important  of  all  considerations,  without  which 
all  the  rest  would  be  nugatory ;  but  I  am  unhappy  to  differ 
with  Junius  in  so  essential  a  point  as  that  of  triennial  parlia- 
ments. They  are  inadequate  to  the  cure  of  destroying  depend- 
ance  in  the  members  on  the  crown.  They  only  lessen,  not 
root  out,  corruption,  and  only  reduce  the  purchase  money  for 
an  annuity  of  three  instead  of  seven  years.  I  have  a  thousand 
afgnments  against  triennial  and  in  favour  of  annual  parlia- 
ments. The  question  was  fairly  agitated  at  the  London 
Tavern,  and  several  of  your  friends  owned  that  they  were 
convinced.  The  subject  is  too  copious  for  a  letter.  I  hope 
to  read  Junius's  mature  and  deliberate  thoughts  on  this 
subject  I  own  that  in  the  House  of  Commons  sound  policy 
would  rather  favour  triennial  parliaments  as  the  necessary 
road  to  annual,  but  the  constitutional  question  is  different. 

I  am  sorry  likewise  to  differ  with  Junius  as  to  the  power  de 
jure  of  the  legislature  to  disfranchise  any  boroughs.  How 
originated  the  right,  and  why  was  it  granted  ?  Old  Sarum 
and  Gatton,  for  instance,  were  populous  places  when  the 
right  of  representation  was  first  given  them.  They  are  now 
desolate,  and  therefore  in  every^ng  should  return  to  their 
former  state.  A  barren  mountain  or  a  single  farm-house  can 
have  no  representation  in  parliament.  I  exceedingly  approve 
of  Lord  Chatham's  idea  of  increasing  the  number  of  Knights 
of  Shires.     If  parliaments  are  not  annual,  I  should  not  did* 


86         LBTTEKS  OF  JUNIUS  AND  MB.  WILKES. 

approve  of  a  third  part  of  the  legislative  body  going  out  every 
fear  by  ballot,  and  of  consequence  an  annual  re-electic«i  in 
part. 

I  am  so  much  harassed  with  business  at  present  tliat  I 
have  not  time  to  mention  many  particulars  of  importance,  and 
these  three  days  I  have  had  the  shivering  fits  of  a  slow  lurk- 
ing fever,  a  strange  disorder  for  Wilkes,  which  makes  writing 
Eainful  to  me.  I  could  plunge  the  patriot  dagger  in  the 
eart  of  the  tyrant  of  my  country,  but  my  hand  would  now 
tremble  in  doing  it.  In  general  I  enjoy  settled  confirmed 
health,  to  which  I  have  for  some  years  pedd  great  attention, 
chiefly  from  public  views. 

I  am  satisfied  that  Junius  now  means  me  well,  and  I  wish 
to  merit  more  than  his  regard,  his  friendship.  He  has 
poured  balm  into  my  wounds,  the  deepest  of  which,  I  sigh 
when  I  recollect,  were  made  by  that  now  friendly  hand.  I 
am  always  ready  to  kiss  his  rod,  but  I  hope  its  destination  is 
changed,  and  that  it  will  never  again  fall  as  heavy  upon  me 
as  towards  the  conclusion  of  the  year  1769,  when  Thurlow 
said,  sneeringly,  the  government  prosecuted  Junius  out  of 
compliment  to  Wilkes.  I  warmly  wish  Junius  my  friend. 
As  a  public  man,  I  think  myself  secure  of  his  support,  for  I 
will  only  depend  on  popular  favour,  and  pursue  only  the  true 
constitutional  point  of  liberty.  As  a  private  person,  I  figure 
to  myself  that  Junius  is  as  amiable  in  the  private  as  he  is 
great  in  the  public  walk  of  life.  I  now  live  very  much  at 
home,  happy  in  the  elegant  society  of  a  sensible  daughter, 
whom  Junius  has  noticed  in  the  most  obliging  manner. 

I  have  not  had  a  moment's  conversation  with  Woodfall  on 
the  subject  of  our  correspondence,  nor  did  I  mean  to  mention 
it  to  him.  All  he  can  guess  will  be  from  the  following  card, 
which  I  shall  send  by  my  servant  with  this  letter.  "  Mr. 
Wilkes  presents  his  compliments  to  Mr.  Woodfall,  and 
desires  him  to  direct  and  forward  the  inclosed  to  Junius.** 
After  the  first  letter  of  Junius  to  me,  I  did  not  go  to  Wood£EiU 
to  pry  into  a  secret  I  had  no  right  to  know.  The  letter 
itself  bore  the  stamp  of  Jove.  I  was  neither  doubting  nor 
impertinent.  I  wish  to  comply  with  every  direction  of  Junius, 
to  profit  by  his  hints,  and  to  have  the  permission  of  writing 
to  him  on  any  important  occasion.     I  desire  to  ass  are  him 


JUNIUS  TO  MB.  WBUKRS.  87 

chat  in  all  great  public  conc^nis  I  am  perfectly  free  from 
every  personality  either  of  dislike  or  affection.  The  Stoic 
apathy  is  then  really  mine. 

Lord  Chatham  said  t0  me  ten  years  ago,  ««******  is 
the  falsest  nypocrite  in  Europe."  I  must  hate  the  man  ac 
much  as  even  Janius  can,  for  through  this  whole  reign  almost 
it  has  been  ♦#♦♦*♦  verms  Wilkes.  This  conduct  will' 
probably  make  it  Wilkes  versus  ******.  Junius  must 
imagine  that  no  man  in  the  island  feels  what  he  writes  on 
that  oeecision  more  than  I  do  *. 

^is  letter  is  an  emanation  of  the  heart,  not  an  effort  of 
0ie  head.  It  claims  attention  from  the  honest  zeal  and  sin- 
cerity of  the  writer,  whose  affection  for  his  country  will  end 
only  with  his  life. 

JOHN  WILKES. 


No.  70. 

JUNIUS  TO  JOHN   WILKES,   ESQJ. 

Sib,  London,  September  18, 1771. 

YouB  letter  of  the  1 2th  instant  was  carefully  conveyed  to  me. 
I  am  much  flattered,  as  you  politely  intended  J  should  be» 
with  the  worship  you  are  pleased  to  pay  to  the  unknown  god 
of  politics.  I  tind  I  am  treated  as  other  gods  usually  are  by 
their  votaries,  with  sacrifice  and  ceremony  in  abundance,  and 
very  little  obedience.  The  profession  of  your  faith  is  unex- 
ceptionable ;  but  I  am  a  modest  deity,  and  should  be  full  as 
well  satisfied  with  good  works  and  morality. 

There  is  a  rule  in  business  that  would  save  much  time  if  it 
were  generally  adopted.  A  question  once  decided  is  no  longer 
a  subject  of  argument  You  have  taken  your  resolution  about 
the  mayoralty.  What  I  have  now  to  say  is  not  meant  to  alter 
it,  but,  in  perfect  good  humour,  to  guard  you  against  some 
inconveniences  which  may  attend  the  execution.      It  is  your 

*  These  blanks,  we  suppose,  may  safely  be  filled  np  with  the  name  of  the 
sovereign;  but  in  extenuation  of  royal  dissimulation — for  that  is  what  is 
meant — it  may  be  added  that  the  King  had  a  host  of  dissemblers  of  all 
parties  to  deal  with,  intriguing  for  their  own  selfish  ends. — Ed. 

t  Written  on  by  him, "  Beiceired  Monday  afternoon,  September  18, 1771/ 


8S  LETIEBS  OF  JUNIUS  ANP   MR.    WTLFRS 

awn  ec&xr,  and  though  I  still  think  you  have  chosen  inju- 
diciously, both  for  yourself  and  for  the  public,  J  have  no  right 
to  find  fault  or  to  tease  you  with  reflections,'  which  cannot 
divert  you  from  your  piirpose. 

I  cannot  compreheud  the  reason  of  Mr.  Crosby's  eagerness 
to  be  Lord  Mayor,  unless  he  proposes  to  disgrace  the  office 
and  himself  by  pocketing  the  salary.  In  that  case  he  will 
create  a  disgust  among  the  citizens,  of  which  you  and  your 
party  will  feel  the  bad  effects,  and  as  for  himself  he  may  bid 
adieu  to  all  hopes  of  being  returned  for  the  city.  That  he 
should  live  with  unusual  splendour  is  essentially  your  interest 
and  his  own ;  and  even  then  I  do  not  perceive  that  his  merits 
are  so  distinguished  as  to  entitle  him  to  a  double  reward. 
Of  the  dignity  or  authority  of  a  locum  tenens,  I  know  nothing; 
nor  can  I  conceive  what  credit  Mr.  Crosby  is  likely  to  derive 
from  representing  Mr.  Bridgen.  But  suppose  Bridgen  should 
be  Lord  Mayor,  and  should  keep  his  word  in  appointing 
Crosby  his  lieutenant,  J  should  be  glad  to  know  who  is  to 
support  the  expense  and  dignity  of  the  office  ?  It  may  suit 
such  a  fellow  as  Bridgen  to  shut  up  the  Mansion  House,  but 
I  promise  you  bis  economy  will  be  of  no  service  to  Mr.  Wilkes. 
If  you  make  him  Mayor,  you  will  be  answerable  for  his  conduct ; 
and  if  he  and  Crosby  be  returned,  you  may  depend  upon  it 
the  court  of  aldermen  will  choose  him. 

With  regard  to  Mr  Sawbridge,  since  I  cannot  prevail  with 
you  to  lay  the  foundation  of  a  closer  union  between  you,  by 
any  positive  sacrifice  in  his  favour,  at  least  let  me  entreat  you 
to  observe  a  moderate  and  guarded  conduct  towards  him.  I 
should  be  much  concerned  to  see  his  character  traduced  or 
his  person  insulted.  He  is  not  a  dupe  to  any  set  of  men 
whatsoever,  nor  do  I  thiuk  he  has  taken  any  violent  or  decided 
part  against  you.  Yet  to  be  excluded  from  those  honours 
which  are  the  only  rewards  he  pretends  to,  and  to  which  he 
is  so  justly  entitled,  and  to  see  them  bestowed  upon  such  men 
as  Crosby  and  Bridgen^  is  enough  to  excite  and  justify  his 
resentment.  All  this.  Sir,  is  matter  of  convenience,  which  I 
hope  you  will  consider.  There  is  another  point,  upon  which 
I  must  be  much  more  serious  and  earnest  with  you.  You 
seem  to  have  no  anxiety  or  apprehension  but  lest  the  friends 
jf  Lord  Shelburne  should  get  possession  of  the  Mansion 
House.    In  my  opinion  they  have  no  chance  of  success  what 


JUNIUS  TO   MB.   WILKES.  89 

soeTer  The  real  danger  is  from  the  interest  of  government: 
from  Harley  and  the  Tories.  If,  while  you  are  employed  in 
counteracting  Mr.  Townshend,  a  ministerial  alderman  should 
be  returned,  you  will  have  ruined  the  cause.  You  will  haye 
ruined  yourself,  and  for  ever.  To  say  that  Junius  could  never 
forgive  you  is  nothing*; — you  could  never  forgive  yourself. 
Junius  from  that  moment  will  be  compelled  to  consider  you 
as  a  man  who  has  sacrificed  the  public  to  views  which  were 
every  way  unworthy  of  you.  If,  then,  upon  a  fair  canvass  of 
the  livery,  you  should  see  a  probability  that  Bridgen  may  not 
be  returned,  let  that  point  be  given  up  at  once,  and  let  Saw- 
bridge  be  returned  with  Crosby; — a  more  likely  way,  in  my 
judgment,  to  make  Crosby  Lord  Mayor. 

Nothing  can  do  you  greater  honour,  nor  be  of  greater  benefit 
to  the  community,  than  your  intended  attack  upon  the  un- 
constitutional powers  assumed  by  the  House  of  Lords.  You 
have  my  warmest  applause ;  and  if  I  can  assist,  command  my 
assistance.  The  arbitrary  power  of  fine  and  imprisonment, 
assumed  by  these  men,  would  be  a  disgrace  to  any  form  of 
legal  government  not  purely  aristocratical.  Directly,  it  in- 
vades the  laws ;  indirectly,  it  saps  the  constitution.  Naturally 
phlegmatic,  these  questions  warm  me.  I  envy  you  the  laurels 
you  will  acquire.  Banish  the  thought  that  Junius  can  make  a 
dishonourable  or  an  imprudent  use  of  the  confidence  you  repose 
in  him.  When  you  have  leisure,  communicate  your  plan  to 
me,  that  I  may  have  time  to  examine  it,  and  to  consider  what 
part  I  can  act  with  the  greatest  advantage  to  the  cause.  The 
constitutional  argument  is  obvious.  I  wish  you  to  point  out 
to  me  where  you  think  the  force  of  the  formal  legal  argument 
lies.  In  pursuing  such  inquiries  I  lie  under  a  singular  dis- 
advantage. Not  venturing  to  consult  those  who  are  qualified 
to  inform  me,  I  am  forced  to  collect  everything  from  books  or 
common  conversation  The  pains  I  took  with  that  paper  upon 
privilege  were  greater  than  I  can  express  to  you.  Yet  after 
I  had  blinded  myself  with  poring  over  journals,  debates,  and 
parliamentary  history,  I  was  at  last  obliged  to  hazard  a  bold 
assertion,  which  I  am  now  convinced  is  true  (as  I  really  then 
thought  it),  because  it  has  not  been  disproved  or  disputed. 
There  is  tJbis  material  difference  upon  the  face  of  the  two 

^  Bote  to  Fnvai*e  Letter,  No.  56,  ante,  p.  fi7« 


90         LETTRBS  OF  JUNIUS  AND  MB.  WTLKEB. 

questions.  We  can  clearly  show  a  time  when  the  Lo^er 
House  had  not  an  unlimited  power  of  commitment  for  breach 
of  privilege.  Whereas  I  fear  we  shall  not  have  the  same 
advantage  over  the  Hotise  of  Lords.  It  is  not  that  precedents 
have  any  weight  with  me  in  opposition  to  principles ;  but  L 
know  they  weigh  with  the  multitude. 

My  opinion  of  the  several  articles  of  the  proposed  declara- 
tion remains  unaltered.  I  cannot  pretend  to  answer  those 
arguments  in  favour  of  annual  parliaments  by  which  you  say 
the  friends  of  Junius  were  convinced.  The  question  is  not 
what  is  best  in  theory  (for  there  I  should  undoubtedly  agree 
with  you),  but  what  is  most  expedient  in  practice.  You  labour 
to  carry  the  constitution  to  a  point  of  perfection  which  it  can 
never  reach  to,  or  at  which  it  cannot  long  be  stationary.  In 
this  idea  I  think  I  see  the  mistake  of  a  speculative  man,  who 
is  either  not  conversant  with  the  world,  or  not  sufficiently 
persuaded  of  the  necessity  of  taking  things  as  they  are.  The 
objection  drawn  from  the  purchase  of  an  annuity  for  tlMm 
years  instead  of  seven  is  defective,  because  it  applies  m  the 
same  proportion  to  an  annuity  for  one  year.  This  is  not  the 
question.  The  point  is  to  keep  the  representative  as  much 
under  the  check  and  control  of  the  constitueot  as  can  be  done 
consistently  with  other  great  and  essential  objects.  But 
without  entering  further  into  the  debate,  I  would  advise  that 
this  part  of  the  declaration  be  expressed  in  general  terms, 
viz.  to  shorten  the  duration  of  parliaments.  This  mediating 
expedient  will,  for  the  present,  take  in  both  opinions,  and 
leave  open  the  quantum  of  time  to  a  future  discussion. 

In  answer  to  a  general  argument,  by  which  ihe  uncontroll- 
able right  of  the  people  to  K>rm  the  third  part  of  the  legisla- 
tsfe  is  defended,  you  urge  against  me  two  gross  cases,  which 
undoubtedly  call  for  correction.  These  cases,  you  may  believe, 
did  not  escape  me,  and,  by  the  by,  admit  of  a  particular  answer. 
But  it  is  not  treating  me  fairly  to  oppose  general  principles 
with  particular  abuses.  It  is  not  in  human  policy  to  form  an 
institution  from  which  no  possible  inconvenience  shall  arise. 
I  did  not  pretend  to  deliver  a  doctrine  to  which  there  rould 
be  no  possible  objection.  We  are  to  choose  between  better 
and  worse.  Let  us  come  fsdrly  to  the  point— Whether  is  it 
safer  to  deny  the  legislature  a  power  of  disfranchising  all  the 
electors  ^f  a  boR>ugh  (which*  if  denied,  entails  a  number  of 


JUVTOd  TO  MB.   WIIJLES.  9\ 

rotten  boroughs  upon  the  constitution),  or  to  admit  the  power, 
and  so  leaye  it  with  the  legislature  to  disfranchise,  ad  arbitrium, 
every  borough  and  county  in  the  kingdom.  If  you  deny  the 
consequence,  it  will  be  incumbent  upon  you  to  prove  hj positive 
reasoning  that  a  power  which  holds  in  the  case  of  Aylesbury 
or  New  Shoreham,  does  not  hold  in  the  case  of  York,  London, 
or  Middlesex.  To  this  question  I  desire  a  direct  answer; 
and  when  we  have  fixed  our  principles,  we  may  regularly 
descend  to  the  detail.  The  cases  of  Gatton  and  Old  Sarum 
do  not  embarrass  me.  Their  right  to  return  members  to 
parliament  has  neither  fact  nor  theory  to  support  it — *'  they 
have,  bond  fide,  no  electors ; "  consequently  there  is  no  man 
to  be  dispossessed  of  his  freehold.  No  man  to  be  disfranchised 
of  his  right  of  election.  At  the  worst,  supposing  the  annihi- 
lation of  these  pretended  boreughs  could  no  way  be  reconciled 
to  my  own  principles,  I  shall  only  say,  give  me  a  healthy, 
vigorous  constitution,  and  I  shall  hardly  consult  my  looking- 
glass  to  discover  a  blemish  upon  my  skin. 

You  ask  me,  from  whence  did  the  right  originate,  and  for 
what  purpose  was  it  granted?  I  do  not  see  l£e  tendency  of 
these  questions,  but  I  answer  them  without  scruple:  *In 
general  it  arose  from  the  king's  writs,  and  it  was  granted  with 
a  view  to  balance  the  power  of  the  nobility,  and  to  obtain  aids 
from  the  people  *  But,  without  looking  back  to  an  obscure 
antiquity,  from  which  no  certain  information  can  be  collected, 
you  will  find  that  the  laws  of  England  have  much  greater 
regard  to  possession  (of  a  certain  length)  than  to  any  other 
tide  whatsoever ;  and  that,  in  every  kind  of  property  which 
savours  of  the  realty,  this  doctrine  is  most  wisely  the  basis  of 
our  English  jurisprudence.  Though  I  use  the  terms  of  art, 
do  not  injure  me  so  much  as  to  suspect  I  am  a  lawyer.  I  had 
as  lief  be  a  Scotchman.  It  is  the  encouragement  given  to 
disputes  about  titles,  which  has  supported  that  iniquitous 
profession  at  the  expense  of  the  community.  As  to  this 
whole  argument  about  rotten  boroughs,  if  I  seem  zealous  in 
supporting  my  opinion,  it  is  not  from  a  conception  that  Hbs 
constitution  cannot  possibly  be  relieved  from  them — 1  jasan 
only  to  reconcile  you  to  an  evil  which  canofit  Mfely  be  re- 
jioved. 

Now,  Mr.  Wilkes,  I  shaO  deal  very  plainly  with  you.  The 
subject  ff  mj  first  letter  was  private  and  personal,  and  I  am 


93  LBTTEB8  OF   JUI^inS   AND   MB.    WTLKE8. 

content  it  should  be  forgotten.  Your  letter  to  me  is  also 
aaered.  But  my  second  letter  is  of  public  import,  and  must 
not  be  suppressed.  I  did  not  mean  that  it  should  be  buried 
in  Prince's  Court  *.  It  would  be  unfair  to  embarrass  you  with 
a  new  question,  while  your  city  election  is  depending.  But 
if  I  percefye  that  within  a  reasonable  time  after  that  business 
is  concluded,  no  steps  are  taken  with  the  Bill  of  Rights  to 
form  a  new,  short,  and  rational  declaration  (whether  by  laying 
my  letter  before  the  Society,  or  by  any  other  mode  diat  you 
fhall  think  advisable),  I  shall  hold  myself  obliged,  by  a  duty 
paramount  to  all  other  considerations,  to  institute  an  amicable 
suit  against  the  Society  before  the  tribunal  of  the  public. 
Without  asperity,  without  petulance  or  disrespect,  I  propose 
to  publish  the  second  letter,  and  to  answer  or  submit  to 
argument.  The  necessity  of  taking  this  step  will  indeed 
give  me  pain,  for  I  well  know  that  differences  between  the 
advocates  are  of  no  service  to  the  cause.  But  the  lives  of  the 
best  of  us  are  spent  in  choosing  between  evils.  As  to  you. 
Sir,  you  may  as  well  take  the  trouble  of  directing  that  Society, 
•inee  whatever  they  do  is  placed  to  your  account. 

The  domestic  society  you  speak  of  is  much  to  be  envied. 
I  fancy  I  should  like  it  still  better  than  you  do.  I  too  am  no 
enemy  to  good  fellowship,  and  have  often  cursed  that  canting 
parson  for  wishing  to  deny  you  your  claret.  It  is  for  him, 
and  men  like  him,  to  beware  of  intoxication.  Though  I  do 
not  place  the  little  pleasures  of  life  in  competition  with  the 
glorious  business  of  instructing  and  directing  the  people,  yet 
I  see  no  reason  why  a  wise  man  may  not  unite  the  public 
virtues  of  Gato,  with  the  indulgence  of  Epicurus. 

Continue  careful  of  your  health.  Your  head  is  too  useful 
to  be  spared,  and  your  hand  may  be  wanted.  Think  no  more 
of  what  is  passed.  You  did  not  then  stand  so  well  in  my 
opinion ;  and  it  was  necessaiy  to  the  plan  of  that  letter  to  rate 
you  lower  than  you  deserved.  The  wound  is  curable,  and  the 
scar  shall  be  no  disgrace  to  yon. 

I  willingly  accept  of  as  much  of  your  friendship  as  you  can 
impart  to  a  man  whom  you  will  assuredly  never  know.  Be- 
sides every  personal  consideration,  if  I  were  known,  I  couid 
no  longer  be  an  useful  servant  to  the  public.    At  present 

*  George  Street,  Weatminiter,  clote  to  Storey*8  Qate,  where  Mr.  Wilkes 
then  resided.— K». 


MB.   WILKES   TO  jmnUS.  ^3 

there  is  something  oracular  in  the  delivery  of  mj  opinions 
1  speak  from  a  recess  which  no  -human  curiosity  can  pene- 
trate, and  darkness,  we  are  told,  is  one  source  of  the  sublime. 
The  mystery  of  Junius  increases  his  importance. 

JUNIUS. 


No.  71. 


Prince's  Court,  Thursday,  Sept  19. 

Mr.  Wilkes  thanks  Mr.  Woodfall  for  the  care  of  the  former 
letter,  and  desires  him  to  transmit  the  inclosed  to  Junius. 


MB.  WILKES  TO  JUNIUS. 

Sir,  September  19, 1771. 

I  HAD  last  night  the  honour  of  your  letter  of  yesterday's  date. 
I  am  just  going  to  the  Common  Hall,  but  fiirst  take  up  the 
pen  to  thank  you  for  the  kindness  you  express  to  me,  and  to 
say  that  the  Bill  of  Eights  meet  next  Tuesday.  I  thought  it 
necessary  not  to  lose  a  moment  in  giving  you  this  information, 
that  whatever  you  judge  proper  may  be  submitted  to  that 
Society  as  early  as  possible.  Junius  may  command  me  in 
everything.  When  he  says,  "  my  second  letter  is  of  public 
import,  and  must  not  be  suppressed.  I  did  not  mean  that  it 
should  be  buried  in  Prince  s  Court," — does  he  wish  it  should 
be  communicated  to  the  Society,  and  in  what  manner?  The 
beginning  of  the  second  letter  refers  to  a  first  letter,  and  some 
other  expressions  may  be  improper  for  the  knowledge  of  the 
Society.  I  wait  Junius's  directions.  I  beg  his  free  senti- 
ments on  all  occasions.  I  mean  next  week  to  stat3  a  variety 
of  particulars  for  his  consideration  and  in  answer  to  his  letter. 
1  had  now  only  a  moment  to  mention  a  point  of  business  and 

a  feeling  of  gratitude. 

JOHN  WILKBS. 


94  LSTTEBd    OF  JUNIUS  AMD  MB.  WILKKS. 


No.  7a. 

JUNIUS  TO  J.   WILKES,   ESQ. 

Sib,  September  21, 1771  *. 

Since  you  are  so  cbliging  as  to  say  you  will  be  guided  by  my 
opinion  as  to  the  manner  of  laying  my  sentiments  before  the 
Bill  of  Bights,  I  see  no  reason  why  the  whole  of  the  second 
letter  may  not  be  read  there  next  Tuesday,  except  the  post- 
script, which  has  no  connection  with  the  rest,  and  the  word 
ridiculous,  which  may  naturally  give  offence ;  —  as  I  mean  to 
persuade  and  soften,  not  irritate  or  offend.  Let  that  word  be 
expunged.  The  prefatory  part  you  may  leave  or  not  as  you 
think  proper.  Tou  are  not  bound  to  satisfy  any  man's  curio- 
sity upon  a  private  matter,  and  upon  my  silence  you  may,  I 
believe,  depend  entirely.  As  to  other  passages  I  have  no  fa- 
vour or  affection,  so  let  all  go.  It  should  be  copied  over  in 
a  better  hand. 

If  any  objections  are  raised,  which  are  answered  in  my 
third  letter,  you  will,  I  am  sure,  answer  for  me,  so  far  forth, 

yre  tenus. 

JUNIUS. 

By  all  means  let  it  be  copied.    This  manuscript  is  for  pri- 


vate  use  only. 


No.  73. 


JUNIUS   TO  J.   WILKES,   ESQ. 

Sn,  Mondayf. 

When  I  wrote  to  you  on  Saturday,  it  did  not  occur  to  me 
that  your  own  advertisement  had  already  informed  the  public 
of  your  receiving  two  letters ;  your  omitting  the  preamble  to 
the  second  letter  would  therefore  be  to  no  purpose. 

In  my  opinion  you  should  not  wish  to  decline  the  appear- 
ance of  being  particularly  addressed  in  that  letter.  It  is  cal- 
culated  to  give  you  dignity  with  the  public.  There  is  more 
iu  it  than  perhaps  you  are  aware  of.     Depend  upon  it,  the 

*  Written  on  it  by  Mr.  Wilkes,  <<  Received  Sept  28,  1771." 
t  Written  on  t  by  Mr.  Wilkes,  <'£eGei?ed  Sept.  23, 1771." 


MB.  WILKES  TO  JUNIUS.  95 

perpetual  union  of  Wilkes  and  mob  does  you  no  serrice.  Not 
but  that  I  love  and  esteem  the  mob.  It  is  your  interest  to 
keep  up  dignity  and  gravity  besides.  I  would  not  make  my- 
self cheap  by  walking  the  streets  so  much  as  you  do.  Ver'^ 
bum  8(U. 


No.  74. 

MB.  WILKES  TO  JUNIUS. 

Sn,  Wednesday,  September  25. 

Yestebdat  I  attended  the  meeting  of  the  Society  of  the  Bill 
of  Rights,  and  laid  before  them  the  letter,  which  I  had  the 
honour  of  receiving  from  you  on  the  7th  of  September.  The 
few  lines  of  the  preamble  I  omitted,  the  word  ridiculoiu,  ac- 
cording to  your  directions,  and  a  very  few  more  lines  towards 
the  conclusion.  All  the  rest  was  a  faithful  transcript,  the 
exact  tenor*.  The  season  of  the  year  occasioned  the  meeting 
to  be  ill  attended.  Only  eleven  members  were  present.  The 
following  resolution  passed  unanimously:  "That  Mr.  Wilkes 
be  desired  to  transmit  to  Junius  the  thanks  of  the  Society  for 
his  letter,  and  to  assure  him  that  it  was  received  with  all  the 
respect  due  to  his  distinguished  character  and  abilities." 
Soon  after  my  fever  obliged  me  to  return  home,  and  I  have 
not  heard  of  anything  further  being  done ;  but  Mr.  Lee  told 
me  he  thought  the  letter  capable  of  a  full  answer,  which  he 
meant,  on  a  future  day,  to  submit  to  the  Society,  and  would 
previously  communicate  to  me.  The  letter  is  left  in  the 
hands  of  Mr.  Reynolds,  who  has  the  care  of  the  other  papers 
of  the  Society,  with  directions  to  permit  every  member  to 
peruse,  and  even  transcribe  it,  on  the  promise  of  non-publicar 
tion.  Some  particular  expressions  appeared  rather  too  harsh 
and  grating  to  the  ears  of  some  of  the  members. 

*  When  Mr.  Wilkei  was  prosecated  in  the  year  1764,  for  puhliahing  the 
Ififrtk  BrtUm,  No.  45,  Lord  Mansfield  issued  an  order  for  Mr.  Wilkes's 
attorney  or  solicitor  to  attend  at.  his  house  on  the  morning  previous  to  the 
trial,  ''to  show  cause  why  the  information  in  this  cause  should  not  be 
■mended  by  striking  out  the  word  pvupobt  in  the  several  places  where  it  is 
mentioned  in  the  said  information  (except  in  the  first  place),  and  inserting, 
instead  thereof,  the  word  tsnob."  The  Chief  Justice  was  accused  of  having 
suggested  this  alteration,  and  several  objections  were  taken  to  it,  which,  is 
■igmnent,  were  oveiruled  by  the  Court 


W  LETTEBB  OF  JUKIU6  AND  MB.  WILKES. 

Surely,  Sir,  nothing  in  the  Advertisement  I  inserted  in  tba 
Public  AdvertUer  coald  lead  to  the  idea  of  the  two  letters  1 
mentioned  ooming  from  Junius.  I  entreat  him  to  peruse 
once  more  th^  guarded  advertisement.  I  hope  that  Mr. 
Bull's  and  my  address  of  Saturday  was  approved  where  I 
most  desire  it  should  he  thought  of  favourably.  I  know  it 
made  our  enemies  wince  in  the  most  tender  part. 

I  am  too  ill  to-day  to  add  more. 

JOHN  WILEBS. 


No.  76 


JUNIUS  10  J.  WIIJQS6,  ESQ. 

Sir,  October  16, 1771. 

I  CANNOT  help  expressing  to  you  my  thanks  and  approbatiou 
of  your  letter  of  this  day*.  I  think  it  proper,  manly,  and  to 
the  purpose.  In  these  altercations  nothing  can  be  more  use- 
ful than  to  preserve  dignity  and  sang  froid—'fortiter  in  re, 
suavUer  in  modo,  increases  both  the  force  and  the  severity. 
Your  conduct  to  Mr.  Sawbridge  is  everything  I  could  wishf. 
Be  assured  you  will  find  it  both  honourable  and  judicious 
Had  it  been  adopted  a  little  sooner,  you  might  have  returned 
him  and  Crosby,  and  taken  the  whole  merit  of  it  to  yourself. 
If  I  am  truly  informed  of  Mr.  S.*s  behaviour  on  the  hustings, 
I  must  confess  it  does  not  satisfy  me.  But  perseverance, 
management,  and  determined  good  humour,  will  set  every- 
thing right,  and,  in  the  end,  break  the  heart  of  Mr.  Home. 
Nothing  can  be  more  true  than  what  you  say  about  great 

*  This  was  a  long  address  from  Mr.  "W^ilkes  to  the  livery  of  London,  in 
his  own  defence,  from  an  attack  which  had  been  made  upon  him  by  Mr. 
Alderman  Townshend.  We  shall  extract  such  parts  of  it  as  are  more  parti- 
cularly alluded  to  by  Junius  in  this  letter. 

f  "  Mr.  Townshend  asks,  '  Does  he  (Mr.  Wilkes)  allow  one  man  in  th% 
Court  of  Aldermen  to  be  worthy  of  your  confidence  except  himself  and  Mr. 
Crosby  r  Let  me  state  the  question  about  Mr.  Sawbridge.  Mr.  Wilkes 
has  declared,  under  his  hand,  in  all  the  public  papers, '  No  man  can  himour 
Mr.  Sawbridge  more  than  I  do,  for  every  public  and  private  virtue  which 
constitutes  a  ffreat  and  amiable  ckaraeter,'  Was  this  praise  cold  or  pennnonsl 
Was  it  not  deserving  a  better  return  dian  it  seems  to  have  found  1  It  not 
siich  a  character  worthy  <if  your  cotyideiueS''  Mr  Wilhet*3  Liiitr  qf 
i^Hober  16. 


dXfKIOB  TO  MB.  WILKES.  97 

m&n*.  They  are  indeed  a  worthless,  pitiful  race  Chatham 
has  gallantly  thrown  away  the  scabbard,  and  never  flinched. 
From  that  moment  I  began  to  like  him. 

I  see  we  do  not  agree  about  the  strict  right  of  pressing  f. 
If  you  are  as  sincere  as  I  am,  we  shall  not  quarrel  about  a 
difference  of  opinion.  I  shall  say  a  few  words  to-morrow  on 
this  subject,  under  the  signature  of  Philo-Junim.  The  let- 
ters under  that  name  have  been  hastily  drawn  up,  but  the 
principles  are  tenable.  I  thought  your  letter  about  the  mili- 
tary very  proper  and  well  drawn  J. 

JUNIUS. 

*  "  Mr.  Morris  told  us  at  the  Bill  of  Bights,  that  when  he  pressed  Mr. 
Townshend  abont  the  affiiir  of  the  printers,  his  answer  was,  that  he  did  not 
find  he  should  be  supported  by  any  great  mom^  and  otherwise  it  would  be 
imprvdent,  therefore  did  not  choose  to  act  in  it.  The  prudent  Mr.  Towns- 
hend may  wait  the  consent  of  great  men,  I  will,  on  a  national  caU,  follow 
instantly  the  line  of  my  duty,  regardless  of  their  applause  or  censure.  Public 
spirit  and  yirtue  are  seldom  in  the  company  of  his  Lordship  or  his  Grace. 
For  the  printer's  case,  see  postf  Miscellaneous  Letter,  No.  92. 

''Has  not,  by  the  conduct  of  your  magistrates,  a  complete  victory  been 
gained  over  the  usurped  powers  both  of  the  Crown  and  the  House  of  Com- 
mons) The  two  questions  had  been  frequently  agitated  among  the  friends 
of  liberty,  even  while  I  remained  at  the  King's  Bench.  When  the  dty  and 
the  nation  had  clearly  decided  in  favour  of  the  cause,  the  greai  men  followed, 
as  they  generally  do,  joined  the  public  cry,  and  thronged  to  the  Tower  to  pay 
their  tudy  tribute  of  praise  to  the  persecuted  patriots.  The  business  had 
been  completed  without  their  assistance.  In  all  such  cases  I  am  persuaded 
we  shall  find  that  the  people  will  be  obliged  to  do  their  own  business;  but  if 
it  succeeds,  they  may  be  sure  of  the  concurrence  and  applause  of  the  greaif 
and  their  even  entering  the  most  loathsome  prisons  or  dungeons — on  a  short 
▼iait  of  parBde."— Mr.  Wilkes's  Letter  of  Oct  lb. 

•Y  "  As  a  good  Bnglishman  and  citizen,  I  thanked  my  brethren  Sawbridge 
and  Oliver  for  having  so  nobly  discharged  their  duty  as  aldermen  in  the 
botineas  of  press  warrants,  on  which  I  expatiated  as  the  most  cruel  species 
of  general  warrants. — Id, 

\  A  few  days  previous  to  Messrs.  Wilkes  and  Bull  entering  upon  their 
office  of  sheri£b  of  London,  they  addressed  a  short  letter  to  the  livery,  con- 
taining a  paragraph  respecting  the  military,  of  which  the  following  is  a 
copy.— 

''  We  have  observed  with  the  deepest  concern  that  a  military  force  has, 
on  several  late  occasions,  been  employed  by  an  unprincipled  administration, 
under  the  pretence  of  assisting  the  civil  power  in  carrying  the  sentence  of  the 
laws  into  execution.  The  conduct  of  the  present  sheriifs  in  the  remarkable 
case  of  the  two  unhappy  men  who  suffered  in  July,  near  Bethnal  Green,  was 
tmlr  patriotic.  We  are  determined  to  follow  so  meritorious  an  example,  and 
u  that  melancholy  part  of  our  oi^ce  will  commence  in  a  very  few  days,  we  take 
VOL.  U.  V 


98  LETTEBS  OF  JUNIUS  AND  MB.  WILKES. 


No.  76. 

MR.   WILKES  TO  JUNIUS. 

SiK,  October  17, 1771. 

I  AM  not  yet  recovered,  and  to-day  have  been  harassed  with 
complaints  against  the  greatest  villains  out  of  hell,  the  bailifb; 
but  so  very  polite  and  friendly  a  letter  as  Junius's  of  yester- 
day, demands  my  earliest  and  warmest  acknowledgments.  I 
only  take  up  the  pen  to  say,  that  I  think  myself  happy  in  his 
approbation,  that  a  line  of  applause  from  him  gives  the  same 
brisk  circulation  to  my  spirits  as  a  kiss  from  Chloe,  and  that 
I  mean  soon  to  communicate  to  him  a  project  of  impoitaooe. 
I  will  skirmish  with  the  great  almost  every  day  in  some  way 
or  other.  Does  Junius  approve  the  following  manGsavre,  in- 
stead of  going  in  a  gingerbread  chariot  to  yawn  through  a  dull 
sermon  at  St.  Paul's  ? 

Old  Bailey,  October  24, 1771. 
"  Mr.  Sheriff  Wilkes  presents  his  duty  to  the  Lord  Mayor, 
and  asks  his  Lordship's  leave  to  prefer  the  real  service  of  hia 
country  to-morrow  in  the  adipinistration  of  justice  here,  to 
the  vain  parade  on  the  anniversary  of  the  accession  of  a 
prince,  under  whose  inauspicious  government  an  universal 

this  opportunity  of  declariDg  that  as  the  constitution  has  entrusted  us  with  the 
whole  power  of  the  county,  we  will  not,  during  our  sheriffidty,  suffsr  any  part 
of  the  army  to  interfere  or  even  attend,  as  on  many  former  occasions,  on  the 
pretence  of  aiding  or  assisting  the  civil  magistrate.  This  resolution  we  de- 
clare to  the  public  and  to  administration,  to  prevent  during  our  continuance 
in  office  the  sending  of  any  detachments  from  the  regular  forces  on  such  a 
service,  and  the  possibility  of  all  future  alarming  disputes.  The  dvil  power 
of  this  country  we  are  sure  is  able  to  support  itself  and  a  good  government. 
The  magistrate,  with  the  assistance  of  those  in  his  jurisdiction,  is  by  ezpe- 
nence  known  to  be  strong  enough  to  enforce  all  legal  commands  without  the 
aid  of  a  standing  army.  Where  that  is  not  the  case,  a  nation  mutt  sink  into 
an  absolute  military  goyemment,  and  everything  viduable  to  the  subject  be 
at  the  mercy  of  the  soldiery  and  their  commander.  We  leave  to  our  bfmve 
countrymen  of  the  army  the  glory  of  conquering  our  foreign  enanies.  We 
pledge  ourselves  to  the  public  for  the  £Euth&il  and  exact  discharge  of  our  du^ 
in  every  emergency  without  their  assistance.  We  desire  to  save  them  a  aer- 
vice  we  know  they  detest,  and  we  take  on  ourselves  the  painful  task  of  those 
unpleasing  scenes  which  our  office  calls  upon  us  to  superintend.  The  laws 
of  our  country  shall,  in  all  instances  during  our  sheri&lty,  be  solely  enfomd 
by  the  authority  and  vigour  of  the  civil  magistcate." 


SIB.  wiiiKSs  TO  auKim.  99 

discontent  prevails  amoig  the  people,  and  who  still  leaves  the 
most  intolerahle  grievances  of  hfs  subjects  unredressed. "  This 
card  to  be  published  at  length.  Will  Junius  suggest  any 
alteration  or  addition  ?  It  is  a  bold  step.  The  sessions  will 
not  be  ended  on  the  125th,  and  it  is  the  duty  of  the  sheriff  to 
attend.  I  will  follow  all  your  hints  about  Mr.  Sawbridge.  I 
am  sorry  to  differ  so  much  from  you  about  press  warrants.  I 
own  that  I  have  warmly  gone  through  that  opposition  upon 
the  clear  conviction  that  every  argument  alleged  for  the  le- 
galily  of  the  press  warrant  would  do  equally  well  for  ship 
money.  I  believe  Junius  as  sincere  as  myself;  I  will  there- 
fore be  so  far  from  quarrelling  with  him  for  any  difference  of 
opinion,  that  when  I  find  we  disagree,  I  will  act  with  double 
caution,  and  some  distrust  of  the  certainty  of  my  being  clearly 
in  the  right. 

I  hope  the  Sheriffs  letter  to  Mr.  Akerman  has  vour  appro- 
bation. Does  Junius  wish  for  any  dinner  or  ball  tickets  for 
the  Lord  Mayor's  day,  for  himself,  «r  friends,  or  a  favourite, 
or  Junta  f  The  day  will  be  worth  observation.  Whether, 
cretd  an  carbone  notandus,  I  do  not  know,  but  the  people,  Sir, 
the  people  are  the  sight.  How  happy  should  I  be  to  see  my 
Portia*  here  dance  a  graceful  minuet  with  Junius  Brutus!  but 
Junius  is  inexorable  and  I  submit.  I  would  send  your  tickets 
to  Woodfall. 

To-morrow  I  go  with  the  Lord  Mayor  and  my  brother 
Sheriff  to  Eochester  to  take  up  our  freedoms.  We  return  on 
Sunday  night. 

I  entreat  of  Junius  to  favour  me  with  every  idea  which 
occurs  to  him  for  the  common  cause,  in  eveiy  particular 
relative  to  my  conduct.  He  shall  find  me  no  less  grateful 
than  ductile. 

JOHN  WILKES. 

*^  Pfobably  the  daughter  of  Mr.  Wilkes,  to  whom  iie  was  tenderly  attached, 
and  who  till  his  dea^  presided  over  his  household.  The  a£fection  was 
mutnal,  and  csntempoiaries  concur  in  testifying  to  the  maiy  virtues  and 
degant  aooomplishments  of  Miss  Wilkes^  who  long  moved  in  the  highest 
ciidflt  nith  an  marallied  name.— Bp. 


M  » 


100  LETTEBS  OF  JUNIUS  AND  MB.  WILEES. 

No.  77. 

JUNI^A  TO  J.   \flLKr:A,   ESQ. 

London,  October  21, 1771. 

Many  thanks  for  your  obliging  offer;  but  alas!  my  age  and 
figure  would  do  but  little  credit  to  my  partner.  I  acknow 
ledge  the  relation  between  Cato  and  Portia,  but  in  truth  I  soii 
no  connection  between  Junius  and  a  minuet. 

You  shall  have  my  opinion  whenever  you  think  proper  to 
ask  it,  freely,  honestly,  and  heartily.  If  I  were  only  a  party 
man,  I  should  naturally  concur  in  any  enterprise  likely  to 
create  a  bustle  without  risk  or  trouble  to  myself.  But  I  love 
the  cause  independent  of  persons,  and  I  wish  well  to  Mr. 
Wilkes  independent  of  the  cause.  Feeling,  as  I  really  do, 
for  others  where  my  own  safety  is  provided  for,  the  danger 
to  which  I  expose  a  simple  printer,  afflicts  and  distresses  me. 
It  lowers  me  to  myself  to  draw  another  into  a  hazardous  situ-' 
ation  which  I  cannot  partake  of  with  him.  This  consideration 
will  accoimt  for  my  abstaining  from  *********so 
long,  and  for  the  undeserved  moderation  with  which  I  have 
treated  him.  I  know  my  ground  thoroughly  when  I  affirm  that 
he  alone  is  the  mark.  It  ii3  not  Bute,  nor  even  the  Princess 
Dowager.  Itis********^:^:**^:**^:*^ 
4c4:****4c4c*4cic  whom  cvcry  honest  man  should  de- 
test, and  every  brave  man  should  attack.*  Some  measures  of 
dignity  and  prudence  must  nevertheless  be  preserved  for  oiir 
own  sakes.  I  think  your  intended  message  to  the  Lord  Mayor 
is  more  spirited  than  judicious,  and  that  it  may  be  attended 
with  consequences  which  (compared  with  the  single  purpose 

0fic:|c4:*4c4c4c*4c4c**4:4:3|ci|c4:4:9|c^   are   nOt  WOFth 

hazarding — non  est  tanti — consider  it  is  not  Junius  or  Jack 
Wilkes,  but  a  grave  sheriff  (for  grave  you  should  be)  who 
marks  his  entrance  into  office  with  a  direct  outrage  to  the 
««ic4e*«**4c*«4c***ic;  that  it  is  only  an  outrage* 
and  leads  to  nothing.  Will  not  courtiers  take  advantage? 
Will  not  Whigs  be  offended  ?  And  whether  offended  or  not, 
will  not  all  parties  pretend  to  condemn  you  ?    If  measures  and 

*  The  explanatory  note,  p.  87»  is  doubtless  applicable  to  the  blankai  io 
the  present  letter. — E  % 


JUinUS  TO  MB.  WILKKS.  lOi 

not  tnen  has  any  meaning  (and  I  own  it  has  yery  little),  it 
mast  hold  particularly  in  the  case  of  *********;  and 
>f  truth  and  reason  he  on  one  side,  and  all  the  common-place 
topics  on  the  other,  can  you  douht  to  which  side  the  multi- 
tude will  incline  ?  Besides,  that  it  is  too  early  to  hegin  this 
kind  of  attack,  I  confess  I  am  anxious  for  your  safety.  T 
know  that  in  the  ordinary  course  of  law  they  cannot  hurt  you ; 
but  did  the  idea  of  a  Bill  of  Banishment  never  occur  to  you? 
And  don't  you  think  a  demonstration  of  this  kind  on  your 
part  might  furnish  government  with  a  specious  pretence  for 
destroying  you  at  once,  by  a  summary  proceeding  ?  Consider 
the  measure  coolly  and  then  determine. 

If  these  loose  thoughts  should  not  weigh  with  you  as  much 
as  I  could  wish,  I  would  then  recommend  a  little  alteration 
in  the  message.    I  would  have  it  stated  thus  : — 

*'  Prince's  Court,  October  24, 1771. 

"  Mr.  Wilkes  presents  his  duty  to  the  Lord  Mayor,  and 
flatters  himself  he  shall  be  honoured  with  his  Lordship's  ap- 
probation, if  he  prefers  the  real  service  of  his  country  to- 
morrow in  the  administration  of  justice  at  the  Old  Bailey,  to 
the  vain  parade  of  a  procession  to  St.  Paul's.  With  the 
wannest  attachment  ^o  the  House  0/  Hanover,  and  the  most 
determined  allegiance  to  the  chief  mag^eitrate,  he  hopes  it  will 
not  be  thought  incumbent  on  him  to  take  an  active  part  in 
celebrating  the  accession  of  a  prince,  under  whose  inauspicious 
reign  the  English  constitution  has  been  most  grossly  and  de- 
liberately violated,  the  civil  rights  of  the  people  no  less 
daringly  invaded,  and  their  humble  petitions  for  redress  re- 
jected with  contempt." 

In  the  first  part,  to  ask  a  mans  leave  to  prefer  the  real  ser- 
vice of  his  country  to  a  vain  parade,  seems,  if  serious,  too 
servile ; — ^if  jest,  unseasonable,  and  rather  approaching  to 
burlesque.  The  rest  appears  to  me  not  less  strong  than  your 
own  words,  and  better  guarded  in  point  of  safety,  which  you 
neglect  too  much.  I  am  now  a  little  hurried,  and  shall  write 
to  you  shortly  upon  some  other  topics. 

JUNIUS, 


109  LETTEBB  OF  rUlTIDS  AND  MB.  WILKES. 

No.  78. 

MB.    WILXES   TO  JUNIUS 

Prince's  Court,  Monday  Uoming,  Not.  4. 

On  mj  retuni  home  last  night  I  had  the  very  great  pleasure 
of  reading  the  Dedication  and  Preface  which  Mr.  Woodfall 
left  for  me.  I  am  going  with  the  city  officers  to  invite  the 
little  great  to  the  custard  on  Saturday.  Perditur  hoe  inter 
misero  lux,  I  shall  only  add,  accept,  legifprobavi.  I  am  much 
honoured  by  the  polite  attention  of  Junius  *. 


No.  79. 

JUNIUS   TO  J.   WILKES,   ESQ. 

November  6, 1771. 
I  ENTBEAT  you  to  procure  for  me  copies  of  the  informations 
against  Eyre  before  the  Lord  Mayor.  I  presume  they  were 
taken  in  writing.  If  not,  I  beg  you  will  favour  me  with  the 
most  exact  account  of  the  substance  of  them,  and  any  observa- 
tions of  your  own  that  you  think  material.  If  I  am  right  in 
my  facts,  I  answer  for  my  law,  and  mean  to  attack  Lord  Mans* 
field  as  soon  as  possible. 

My  American  namesake  is  plainly  a  man  of  abilities,  though 
I  think  a  little  unreasonable,  when  he  insists  upon  more  than 
an  absolute  surrender  of  the  fact.  I  agree  with  him  that  it  is  a 
hardship  on  the  Americans  to  be  taxed  by  the  British  Legis- 
lature ;  but  it  is  a  hardship  inseparable  in  theory  from  the  con- 
dition of  colonists  in  which  they  have  voluntarily  placed  them- 
selves. If  emigration  be  no  crime  to  deserve  punishment,  it  is 
certainly  no  virtue  to  claim  exemption  t ;  and  however  it  may 

*  Upon  this  letter  was  written  by  Mr.  Wilkes,  "  On  retaining  Jnnios  the 
iedication  and  ^rehce  he  sent  me." 

f  Whether  emigration  is  meritorious^  depends  on  the  drcmnstances  under 
which  it  occurs.  The  Greek  colonists,  who  settled  in  Asia  Minor,  doubtless 
rendered  a  laudable  service  to  themselves,  the  fellow-citisens  they  left  behind, 
and  the  world  in  general,  by  their  expatriation,  whether  it  arose  from  stritc 
at  home,  or  the  pressure  of  a  redundant  population.  Corresponding  benefits 
to  all  parties,  from  the  wide  scope  obtained  for  industry  and  capital,  may  be 


UB.   WILKES   TO  JUNIUS.  103 

have  proved  eventually  beneficial,  the  mother  country  was  but 
little  obliged  to  the  intentions  of  the  first  emigrants.  But,  in 
fact,  change  of  place  does  not  exempt  from  subjection : — the 
members  of  our  &ctories  settled  under  foreign  governments, 
and  whose  voluntary  banishment  is  much  more  laudable  with 
regard  to  the  mother  country,  are  taxed  with  the  laws  of  con- 
sulage. Au  reste,  I  see  no  use  in  fighting  this  question  in  the 
newspapers,  nor  have  I  time.  You  may  assure  Dr.  Lee,  that 
to  my  heart  and  understanding  the  names  of  American  and 
EngUshman  are  synonymous,  and  that  as  to  any  future  taxa- 
tion of  America,  I  look  upon  it  as  near  to  impossible  as  the 
highest  improbability  can  go. 

I  hope  that,  since  he  has  opposed  me  where  he  thinks  me 
wrong,  he  will  be  equally  ready  to  assist  me  when  he  thinks 
me  ng^t.  Besides  the  Mlibility  natural  to  us  all,  no  man 
writes  under  so  many  disadvantages  as  I  do.  I  cannot  con- 
sult the  learned,  I  cannot  directly  ask  the  opinion  of  my  ac- 
quaintance, and  in  the  newspapers  I  never  am  assisted. 

Those  who  are  conversant  with  books,  well  know  how  often 
they  mislead  us,  when  we  have  not  a  living  monitor  at  hand 
to  assist  us  in  comparing  practice  with  theory. 


No.  80. 


MB.   WILKES  TO   JUNIUS. 


Sib,  Princess  Court,  Wednesday,  Not.  6. 

I  DO  not  delay  a  moment  giving  you  the  information  you  wish 
I  inclose  a  copy  of  Eyre*s  commitment.  Nothing  else  in  this 
business  has  been  reduced  to  writing.  The  examination  was 
before  the  sitting  justice.  Alderman  Hallifax,  at  Guildhall ; 
and  it  is  not  usual  to  take  it  in  writing,  on  account  of  the 
multiplicity  of  business  there.    The  paper  was  found  upon 


nfely.Mtrilmted  to  the  existing  tide  of  emigration  from  the  United  Kingdom ; 
and  the  advantages  that  have  ensued  from  the  planting  of  the  American 
colonies  in  the  17th  century,  to  which  Junius  specially  refers,  will  hardly 
at  this  time  be  deemed  a  debatable  question.  But  many  unsettled  points, 
agitated  when  Junius  wrot«^  have  received  their  quietus  item  subseqneni 
•vMJts,  and  ceased  to  be  oontroTeniaL — Bo. 


104  JLETTERS  OF  JUNIUS  AND  HB.   WILEES. 

him.  He  was  asked  what  he  had  to  say  in  his  defence,  his 
answer  was,  I  hope  you  will  bail  me.  Mr.  Holder,  the  clerk, 
answered,  That  is  impossible.  There  never  was  an  instance 
of  it,  when  the  person  was  taken  in  the  fact,  or  the  goods 
found  upon  him  I  believe  Holder  s  law  is  right.  Alderman 
Halli&x  likewise  granted  a  search-warrant  prior  to  the  ex 
amination.  At  Eyre's  lodgings  many  more  quires  of  paper 
were  found,  all  marked  on  purpose,  from  a  suspicion  of  Eyre. 
After  Eyre  had  been  some  time  at  Wood  Street  Compter,  a 
key  was  found  in  his  room  there,  which  appears  to  be  a  key 
to  the  closet  at  Guildhall,  from  whence  the  paper  was  stolen. 
The  Lord  Mayor  refused  to  bail  Eyre,  but  I  do  not  find  that 
einy  fresh  examination  was  taken  at  the  Mansion  House.  The 
circunistances  were  well  known.  I  was  present  at  the  ex- 
amination before  Hallifax,  but  as  sheriff  could  not  interfere, 
only  I  whispered  Hallifax  he  could  not  bail  Eyre.  Anglu$ 
in  to-day*s  Ptiblic  Advertiser  told  some  particulars  I  had 
mentioned.  I  did  not  know  of  that  letter;  it  is  Mr.  Bernard's 
of  Berkeley  Square.  As  to  the  Americans,  I  declare  I  know 
no  difference  between  an  inhabitant  of  Boston  in  Lincolnshire, 
and  of  Boston  in  New  England.  I  honour  the  Americans; 
but  our  ancestors  who  staid  and  drove  out  the  tyrant,  are 
justly  greater  in  merit  and  fame  than  those  who  fled  and  de- 
serted their  countrymen.  Their  future  conduct  has  been  a 
noble  atonement,  and  their  sons  have  much  surpassed  them. 
I  will  mention  to  Dr.  Lee  what  vou  desire.  You  shall  have 
every  communication  you  wish  from  me.  Yet  I  beg  Junius 
to  reflect  a  moment.  To  whom  am  I  now  WTiting  ?  I  am  all 
doubt  and  uncertainty,  though  not  mistrust  or  suspicion.  I 
should  be  glad  to  canvass  freely  every  part  of  a  great  plan. 
I  dare  not  write  it  to  a  man  I  do  not  know,  of  whose  connec- 
tions I  am  totally  ignorant.  I  differ  with  Junius  on  one 
pomt :  I  think  by  being  concealed  he  has  infinite  advantages 
which  I  want.  I  am  on  the  Indian  coast,  where,  from  Qie 
fire  kindled  round  me,  I  am  marked  out  to  every  hostile  arrow 
which  knows  its  way  to  me.  Those  who  are  in  the  dark  are 
safe,  from  the  want  of  direction  of  the  pointless  shaft.  I 
followed  Juuius's  advice  about  the  card  on  the  anniversary  of 
the  King's  accession.  I  dropped  the  idea.  I  wish  to  know 
his  sentiments  about  certain  projects  against  the  usurped 
powers  of  the  House  of  Lords     The  business  is  too  vast  Ui 


MB.   WILKES  TO  JUNirS.  105 

ivrite,  too  hazardous  to  communicate,  to  an  unknown  person. 

Junius  will  forgive  me.     What  can  be  done?    Alas!  where 

is  the  man,  after  all  Wilkes  has  experienced,  in  whose  friendly 

bosom  he  can  repose  his  secret  thoughts,  his  noble  but  most 

dangerous  designs?    The  person  most  capable  he  can  bave  no 

access  to,  and  all  others  he  will  not  trust.     I  stand  alone^ 

isol^  as  the  French  call  it,  a  single  column,  unpropped,  and 

perhaps  nodding  to  its  fall. 

JOHN  WILKBS. 


No.  81. 

JVNIT7S  TO  J.   WILKES,   ESQ. 

NoTember  9, 1771» 
I  AM  much  obliged  to  you  for  your  information  about  Eyre. 
The  facts  are  as  I  understood  them,  and,  with  the  blessing  of 
God,  I  will  pull  Mansfield  to  the  ground. 

Your  offer  to  communicate  your  plan  against  the  Lords  was 
Toluntary.  Do  now  as  you  think  proper.  I  have  no  resent- 
ments but  against  the  common  enemy,  and  will  assist  you  in 
any  way  that  you  will  suffer  yourself  to  be  assisted.  When 
you  have  satisfied  your  understanding  that  there  may  be  rea- 
sons why  Junius  should  attack  the  King,  the  Minister,  the 
Court  of  King's  Bench,  and  the  House  of  Commons,  in  the 
way  tbat  I  have  done,  and  yet  should  desert  or  betray  the 
man  who  attacks  the  House  of  Lords,  I  would  still  appeal  to 
your  heart.  Or  if  you  have  any  scruples  about  that  kind  of 
evidence,  ask  that  amiable  daughter  whom  you  so  implicitly 
confide  in  — Js  it  possible  that  Junius  should  betray  me  ?  Do 
not  conceive  that  I  solicit  new  employment.  I  am  overcomo 
with  the  slavery  of  writing.     Farewell. 


No.  82. 

MB.    WILKES  TO  JUNIUS. 

Prince's  Court,  near  Storey's  Gfate,  Westminster, 
Wednesday,  January  15,  1772. 

A  VEOBSSABT  attention  to  my  health  engrossed  my  time  eu 
tirolj  in  the  few  holidays  I  spent  at  Bath,  and  I  am  rewarded 


106       LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS  AND  MR.  WILKES. 

with  being  perfectly  recovered.  The  repairs  of  the  clay  cot* 
tage,  to  which  I  am  tenant  for  life,  seem  to  have  taken  place 
very  successfully;  and  the  building  will  probably  last  a  few 
more  years  in  tolerable  condition. 

Yesterday  I  met  the  Supporters  of  the  Bill  of  Eights  at 
the  London  Tavern.  Much  discourse  passed  about  the  pub- 
lication of  Junius's  letter.  Dr.  Lee  and  Mr.  Watkin  Lewes, 
who  were  both  suspected,  fully  exculpated  themselves.  I  be- 
lieve the  publication  was  owing  to  the  indiscretion  of  Mr. 
Patrick  Oawdron,  a  linen-draper  in  Cheapside,  who  showed  it 
to  his  partner  on  the  Saturday.  The  partner  copied  it  on  the 
Sunday,  and  the  Monday  following  it  appeared  in  the  Mom- 
mg  Chronicle,  The  Gazetteer  only  copied  it  from  thence. 
The  Society  directed  a  disavowal  of  their  publication  of  it  to 
be  sent  to  you,  and  are  to  take  the  letter  into  consideration 
at  the  next  meeting*.  I  forgot  to  mention  that  Mr.  Caw* 
dron  keeps  the  papers  of  the  Society. 

*  Perhaps  Wilkes  himself  was  the  traitor:  it  certiunlj  wa*  hk  practice  to 
make  extracts  from  the  private  letters  of  Jimins  to  circulate  among  hia 
friends,  ios  })e  was  proud  of  his  unkiifl«ii  correspondent  and  Mentor.  A 
"  card  "  of  this  description  naj  ^  seen  at  the  end  of  Almon's  Junius  (voL  IL 
p.  842)^  given  hj  kanself  to  the  aforesaid  inculpated  Dr.  Arthur  Lee,  com* 
prising  the  sentiments  of  Junius  just  referred  to  (p.  102)  on  the  public  meriti 
of  the  primitive  settlers  of  the.ionerican  colonies.  A  copy  of  the  card  il 
subjoined. 

**  Junius  desires  Mr.  Wilkes  to  present  his  compliments  to  Dr.  Lee;  his 
American  friend  is  evidently  a  man  of  abilities,  but  I  think  it  a  little  unrea* 
sonable  that  nothing  will  content  him  but  a  total  surrender  of  the  fact. 

"  If  the  ancestors  of  the  Americans  incurred  no  blame  by  their  emigration, 
they  deserved  no  praise;  and  though  their  emigration  has  been  evidently 
usefhl,  yet  this  country  was  not  obliged  to  them  for  their  desertion. 

"  You  may  assure  Dr.  Lee  that  to  my  heart  and  understanding  the  namr 
of  American  and  Englishman  will  ever  be  the  same;  but  the  Americans  must 
not  repine  at  being  subject  to  an  authority  essential  to  the  state  of  colonies, 
in  which  they  have  voluntarily  placed  themselves.  British  members  of  the 
fiictories  abroad,  who  have  more  merit  towards  us,  we  subject  to  consulage 
I  think  there  is  as  great  certainty  that  the  speculative  right  will  never  again 
be  drawn  into  action,  as  the  highest  probability  can  give. 

*<  I  do  not  see  the  necessity  of  fighting  this  question  in  the  newspapers, 
nor  have  I  time.  I  hope,  as  he  corrects  me  where  I  am  wrong,  he  will  sup- 
port me  where  I  am  right.    My  situation  is  *  *  *  *." 

Mr.  Almon's  correspondent,  who  subscribes  himself  £.  M.,  says,  "  A  copy 
from  the  original  card  was  handed  to  Dr.  Lee  by  Mr.  Wilkes.  That  originai 
ought  to  have  been  found  among  the  papers  of  Mr.  Wilkes ;  if  it  was  not,  ws 
may  conclude  he  had  a  motive  to  destroy  it    The  correctness  of  the  crpy  » 


MB.  WILKES  TO  JUNIUS.  107 

The  winter  campaign  will  begin  with  the  next  week.  I 
believe  that  the  sheriffs  will  have  the  old  battle  renewed  with 
the  Commons,  and  I  suppose  the  Lord  Major  and  the  courtly 
aldermen  will  commit  the  printer  for  us  to  release.  Another 
scene  will  probably  open  with  the  Lords.  Junius  has  ob- 
served, **  the  arbitrary  power  they  have  assumed  of  imposing 
fines,  and  committing  during  pleasure,  will  now  bo  exercised 
in  its  fullest  extent.  The  progress  of  the  business  I  sus- 
pect will  be  this — a  bitter  libel  against  Pomfret,  Denbigh,  or 
Talbot,  attacking  the  peer  personally,  not  in  his  legislative  or 
judicial  capacity,  will  appear.  His  Lordship,  passion's  slave, 
will  complain  to  the  House.  They  will  order  the  printer 
into  custody,  and  set  a  heavy  fine.  The  sheriffs  the  next 
morning  will  go  to  Newgate,  examine  the  warrant  of  commit- 
ment, and,  like  the  angel  of  Peter,  take  the  prisoner  by  the 
hand,  and  conduct  him  out  of  prison ;  afterwards  they  will 
probably  make  their  appeal  to  the  public  against  the  usurpa- 
tion of  their  Lordships,  and  their  entirely  setting  aside  the 
power  of  juries  in  their  proceedings. 

Are  there  more  furious  wild  beasts  to  be  found  in  the  upper 
den  than  the  three  I  have  named?  Miller,  the  printer  of 
the  London  Evening  Postj  at  No.  2,  Queen*s  Head  Passage, 
Paternoster  Row,  is  the  best  man  I  know  for  thb  bqangBS. 
He  will  print  whatever  is  sent  him.  He  is  a  fine  Oliverian 
soldier.  I  intend  a  manifesto  with  my  name  on  Monday  to 
give  spirit  to  the  printers,  and  to  show  them  who  will  be  ^eir 
protector.  I  foresee  it  will  make  the  two  Houses  more  caa- 
tioas,  but  it  is  necessary  for  our  friends,  and  the  others  shall 
be  baited  till  they  are  driven  into  the  snare.     Adieu. 

JOHN  WILKB& 

llie  potsession  of  the  writer  of  thu,  was  Touched  to  him  by  Dr.  Lee  hine^ 
ivho  ftdded.  that  Mr.  Wilkes,  when  he  delivered  the  eztracty  told  him  bf 
often  biard  from  /aniiu. 


108 


MISCELLANEOUS  LETTERS 

ASCRIBED  TO  JUNIUS. 


LETTER  I. 

POPUCOLA  TO  THE   PUBLIC  ADVEBTISEB* 

28th  April,  1767. 
Dictatura,  qnam  in  rommis  reipublicae  angnstiis  acceperat,  per  pacem  con* 
tinuata,  libertatem  fregit;  donee  ilium  conversas  in  rabiem  populus  et  dii 
ultores  de  saxo  Tarpeio  dejecenmt — Litt. 

**  The  Dictatorship,  which  had  been  confided  to  him  daring  a  period  of  ex- 
treme peril  to  the  Republic,  being  continued  to  him  after  the  peace,  he 
abased  it  to  the  destruction  of  liberty,  till  the  people  turned  upon  him  in 
'  their  rage,  and  the  avenging  gods  precipitated  him  from  the  Tarpeian 
rock." 

The  bravest  and  freest  nations  have  sometimes  submitted  to 
a  temporary  surrender  of  their  liberties  in  order  to  establish 
them  for  ever.    At  a  crisis  of  public  calamity  or  danger,  the 

*  Both  this  and  the  next  letter  under  the  same  signature  are  not  equal  to 
Junius  in  intensity  and  compactness  of  thought  and  diction,  but  have  quali* 
ties  in  common'  with  him  in  bitterness  of  invectiye,  acuteness  of  stricture, 
frequency  of  classical  allusion,  and  rigid  construction  of  the  English  consti- 
tution. They,  are  a  somewhat  diluted  reflex  of  what  he  might  have  pro- 
duced ere  practice  and  confidence  had  raised  and  invigorated  his  style. 
But  that  he  was  not  the  author  of  them  is  indubitably  settled  since  the  pub' 
lication  of  the  Chatham  Papers.  Diversified  and  fertile  as  Junius  uih 
doubtedly  was  in  his  joumaUsm,  he  was  no  Proteus,  but  hearty,  sincere, 
and  consistent.  These  data  alone  ignore  the  assumption  that  he  could  in 
the  same  breath — and  that  too  within  the  space  of  a  few  short  months- 
be  ardently  oocnpied  in  alternately  exalting  and  depreciating  the  same  iu« 
dividual.  Yet  such  an  inconsistency  must  be  admitted  were  Junius  and 
P<^licola  to  be  regarded  as  one  and  the  same  writer. 

roplicola  in  April,  1767,  depicts  Lord  Chatham  as  aspiring  to  a  politica] 
iictatorship,  and  that  the  Tarpeian  rock  or  a  gibbet  would  be  good  enougk 


LETTERS  OF  POPLICOLA.  109 

prudence  of  the  state  placed  a  confidence  in  the  virtue  of  some 
distinguished  citizen,  and  gave  him  power  sufficient  to  pre- 
serve or  to  oppress  his  country.  Such  was  the  Roman  dicta- 
tor, and  while  his  office  was  confined  to  a  short  period,  and 
only  applied  as  a  remedy  to  the  disasters  of  an  unsuccessful 
war,  it  was  usually  attended  with  the  most  important  advan- 
tages, and  left  no  dangerous  precedent  behind.  The  dictator, 
finding  employment  for  all  his  activity  in  repulsing  a  foreign 
invasion,  had  but  little  time  to  contrive  the  ruin  of  his  own 
country,  and  his  ambition  was  nobly  satisfied  by  the  honour  of 
a  triumph,  and  the  applause  of  his  fellow  citizens.  But  as 
soon  as  this  wise  institution  was  corrupted,  when  that  un 
limited  trust  of  power  which  should  have  been  reserved  for 
conjunctures  of  more  than  ordinary  difficulty  and  hazard  was, 
without  necessity,  committed  to  one  map's  uncertain  modera^ 
tion,  what  consequence  could  be  expected  but  that  the  people 
should  pay  the  dearest  price  for  their  simplicity,  nor  ever  re^ 
sume  those  rights  which  they  could  vainly  imagine  were  more 
secure  in  the  hands  of  a  single  man  than  where  the  laws  and 
constitution  had  placed  them? 

for  the  "  carcase  of  snch  a  traitor."  But  obeerre  the  contrast :  Junius  in  a 
letter  addressed  to  the  Earl  of  Chatham  in  the  following  January,  marked 
"  private  and  secret,  to  be  opened  by  Lord  Chatham  only,"  sets  himself  forth 
as  a  warm  admirer  of  that  statesman ;  and  anxiously  cautions  him  against 
the  underhand  practices  of  his  colleagues,  especially  of  Lord  Northington 
and  Mr.  Conway,  concluding  as  follows : — 

"  My  Lord,  the  man  who  presumes  to  give  your  Lordship  these  hintt 
admires  your  character  without  servility,  and  is  convinced  that,  if  this  country 
can  be  saved,  it  must  be  saved  by  Lord  Chatham's  spirit,  by  Lord  Chatham's 
abilities." — Correspondence  of  the  Earl  qf  ChiOtham,  vol.  iii.  p.  306. 

So  that  the  "dictator"  of  Poplicola  is  the  saviour  of  Junius — both  one 
writer.  Impossible  t  "Who  then,  it  may  be  asked,  was  Poplicola]  a  question 
probably  not  very  material  to  answer  if  he  were  not  Junius.  But  I  will 
mention  one  conjecture  by  an  American  editor,  namely,  that  Poplicola  was 
Horne  Tooke,  which  seems  not  unlikely.  About  this  period  Mr.  Home  Tooke 
returned  from  a  tour  in  Italy  as  travelling  tutor;  on  his  way  he  spent  some 
weeks  with  Mr.  Wilkes  in  Paris,  and  imbibed  his  rancour  against  Grafton 
and  Chatham ;  the  latter,  in  the  ftill  bloom  of  place,  peerage,  and  pension^ 
having  haughtily  rejected  Wilkes's  application  for  compensation  oar  public 
employment,  and  disowned  his  quondam  friend  "as  the  blasphemer  of 
his  God,  and  libeller  of  his  king."  In  retaliation,  Wilkes  addressed  a  bitter 
inculpatory  letter  to  the  Duke  of  Grafton  (see  extract,  p.  114),  and  Mr. 
Tooke  is  surmised  to  h^ive  lent  his  auxiliary  aid  by  the  two  letters  signed 
Poplic(^ — Bd. 


110  MI8GELLANE0UB  LETTERS  ASCBIBED  TO  JUNIUS. 

Without  any  uncommon  depravity  of  mind,  a  man  so 
trusted  might  lose  all  ideas  of  public  principle  or  gratitude, 
and  not  unreasonably  exert  himself  to  perpetuate  a  power 
which  he  saw  his  fellow  citizens  weak  and  abject  enough  to 
surrender  to  him.  But  if,  instead  of  a  man  of  a  common 
mixed  character,  whose  yices  might  be  redeemed  by  some  ap- 
pearance of  virtue  and  generosity,  it  should  have  unfortunately 
happened  that  a  nation  had  placed  all  their  confidence  in  a 
man  purely  and  perfectly  bad ;  if  a  great  and  good  prince,  by 
some  fatal  delusion,  had  made  choice  of  such  a  man  for  his 
first  minister,  and  had  delegated  all  his  authority  to  him; 
what  security  would  that  nation  have  for  its  freedom,  or  that 
prince  for  his  crown  ?  The  histoiy  of  every  nation  that  once 
had  a  claim  to  liberty,  will  tell  us  what  would  be  the  progicss 
of  such  a  ti^dtor,  and  what  the  probable  event  of  his  crimes  * 

Let  us  suppose  him  arrived  at  that  moment  at  which  he 
might  see  himself  within  reach  of  the  great  object,  to  which 
all  the  artifices,  the  intrigues,  the  hypocrisy,  and  the  impu- 
dence of  his  past  life  were  directed.  On  the  ppint  of  having 
the  whole  power  of  the  crown  committed  to  lum,  what  would 
be  his  conduct?  an  afiectation  of  prostrate  humility  in  the 
closet,  but  a  lordly  dictation  of  terms  to  the  people,  by  whose 
interest  he  had  been  supported,  by  whose  fortunes  he  had 
subsisted.     Has  he  a  brother?  that  brother  must  be  sacri- 

*  This  seyere  invective  is  aimed  against  the  late  Lord  Chatham,  formerly 
the  right  hon.  W.  Pitt.  The  reader,  by  a  perusal  of  the  preceding  letters,  la 
already  acquainted  with  the  viXer  aversion  which  Junius  at  first  feh  for  this 
nobleman  on  various  political  accounts,  and  especially  on  the  subject  of  the 
American  dispute.  His  aversion,  however,  softened  as  their  political  viewi 
approximated,  and  was  at  length  converted  into  approbation  and  eulogy. 

[Dr.  Gtood  resorts  to  this  forced  construction  by  way  c^  fixing  Junius 
with  the  authorship  of  Poplicola's  letters ;  but,  so  feur  as  the  writings  of 
Junius  can  be  authentically  traced,  he  uniformly  cherished  &vourable  senti* 
ments  towards  Lord  Chatham,  and  never  an  "  utter  aversion."  This  ii 
manifest  firom  his  private  letter  referred  to  in  the  preceding  note,  dated  Jan. 
2, 1768,  and  reprinted  in  the  Appendix  to  the  present  volume.  Junius  hashim- 
peU  described  the  growth  of  his  admiration  of  Lord  Chatham  in  a  passage  of 
lingular  beauty  (vol.  i.  p.  391).  To  have  been  the  unvarying  eulogist  of  that 
nobleman  he  must  have  been  inconsistent  with  himself— more  stead&st  to  an 
individual  than  to  his  own  principles ;  and  have  been,  as  that  statesman  un- 
questionably was,  the  alternate  advocate  and  opponent  of  measures  of  iden- 
tical political  import,  to  accommodate  himself  to  the  shifting  vane  of  his  Lord- 
ship's party  movements.  Upon  this  part  of  Chatham's  career  some  strictures 
have  been  submitted,  in  the  Editor's  intraductory  Essay.] — Bft 


LETTERS   OF  POPLIOOIA.  Ill 

fieed*.    Has  he  a  rancorous  enemy?  that  enemy  must  be 

*  Lord  Temple,  brother-in-law  to  Lord  Chatham.  They  resigned  their 
jiefpectiye  offices,  the  former  of  privy  seal,  and  the  latter  of  principa! 
Mcretary  of  state,  in  October  1761.  Lord  Temple  was  succeeded  by  the 
Duke  of  Bedford;  and  upon  Lord  Chatham's' forming  his  administration  in 
1766  he  took  the  post  of  privy  seal  himself.  Lord  Temple  did  not  take 
part  in  any  ministry  arranged  subsequent  to  his  resignation  of  that  office,  and 
died  Sept  11, 1779. 

The  following  letter  from  Lord  C,  before  his  promotion  to  the  peerage, 
explains  the  motives  of  their  joint  resignation;  it  was  addressed  to  a  friend 
in  the  city  * : — 


"  DBAS  6IB, 


"  Finding,  to  my  great  surprise,  thai  the  cause  and  manner  of  my  resign- 
ing the  seals  is  grossly  misrepresented  in  the  city,  as  well  as  that  the  most 
gracious  and  sptyntaneous  marks  of  his  Majesty's  approbation  of  my  services, 
which  marks  followed  my  resignation,  have  been  io&mously  traduced  as  a 
bargain  for  my  forsaking  the  public,  I  am  under  a  necessity  of  declaring  the 
tru^  of  both  these  facts,  in  a  manner  which  I  am  sure  no  gentleman  will  con- 
tradict. A  difference  of  opinion  with  regard  to  measures  to  be  taken  against 
Spain,  of  the  highest  importance  to  the  honour  of  the  crown  and  to  the  most 
essential  national  interests,  and  this  founded  on  what  Spain  had  already 
done,  not  on  what  that  court  may  further  intosd  to  do,  was  the  cause  of  my 
resigning  the  seals.  Lord  Temple  and  I  submitted  in  writing,  and  signed  by 
tts,  our  most  humble  sentiments  to  his  Majesty,  which,  being  overruled  by  the 
united  opinion  of  all  the  rest  of  the  King's  servants,  I  resigned  the  sesJs  on 
Monday  the  5th  of  this  month,  in  order  not  to.  remain  responsible  for  mea^ 
•ures  which  I  was  no  longer  allowed  to  guide.  Most  gracious  public  marks 
of  his  Majesty's  approbation  of  my  services  followed  my  resignation:  they 
are  unmerited  and  unsolicited,  and  I  shall  ever  be  proud  to  have  received 
them  from  the  best  of  sovereigns. 

"  I  will  now  only  add,  my  dear  Sir,  that  I  have  explained  these  matters 
only  for  the  honour  of  truth,  not  in  any  view  to  court  return  of  confidence 
from  any  man  who,  with  a  credulity  as  weak  as  it  is  injurious,  has  thought 
fit  hastily  to  withdraw  his  good  opinion  from  one  who  has  served  his  country 
with  fidelity  and  success,  and  who  justly  reveres  the  upright  and  candid 
judgment  of  it,  little  solicitous  about  the  censures  of  the  capricious  and  the 
ungenerous.  Accept  my  sincerest  acknowledgments  for  all  your  kind  friend- 
ship, and  believe  me  ever  with  truth  and  esteem, 

"  Oct  14, 1761.  *'  My  dear  Sir,  your  faithful  Friend, 

«  W.  Pitt." 

[Long  as  this  note  is,  it  does  not  elucidate  the  text,  namely,  the  '' sacrifice 
of  a  brother"  by  the  Earl  of  Chatham,  an  omission  I  shall  endeavour  to  sup- 
ply. GThe  rupture  between  Chatham  and  his  brother-in-law.  Lord  Temple,  ori- 
ginated in  a  dispute  on  the  distribution  of  cabinet  council  employments  in 
1766,  Temple  nominating  Lords  Gower  and  Lyttleton,  from  which  Chatham 
dissented.    **  Upon  this,"  says  Lord  Chesterfield,  "  Lord  Temple  broke  up 

'  The  "  friend"  was  Mr.  Beckford.  —  Chatham  Ccm»]pmdtnci,  voj.  !L 
9b  168.— So. 


J 13  yiSGELLANEOUS  LBTTEB8   ASCRIBED  TO  JUNIUS. 

promoted*.  Have  years  of  his  life  been  spent  in  declaiming 
against  the  pernicious  influence  of  a  favourite  ?  That  favourite 
must  be  taken  to  his  bosom,  and  made  the  only  partner  of  his 
poi^ver  f.  But  it  is  in  the  natural  course  of  things  that  a  de- 
spotic povirer,  which  of  itself  violates  eveiy  principle  of  a  free 
constitution,  should  be  acquired  by  means  which  equally  vio- 
late eveiy  principle  of  honour  and  morality.  The  ofl&ce  of  a 
grand  vizir  is  inconsistent  with  a  limited  monarchy,  and  can 
never  subsist  long  but  by  its  destruction.  The  same  measures 
by  which  an  abandoned  profligate  is  advanced  to  power  must 
be  observed  to  maintain  him  in  it.  The  principal  nobility* 
who  might  disdain  to  submit  to  the  upstart  insolence  of  a  die 
tator,  must  be  removed  from  eveiy  post  of  honour  and  autho- 
rity ;  all  public  employments  must  be  filled  vnth  a  despicable 
set  of  creatures,  who,  having  neither  experience  nor  capacity, 
nor  any  weight  or  respect  in  their  own  persons,  will  necessa- 
rily derive  all  their  little  busy  importance  from  him.  As  the 
absolute  destruction  of  the  constitution  of  his  countiy  would 
be  his  great  object,  to  be  consistent  with  that  design  he  must 
exert  himself  to  weaken  and  impoverish  every  rank  and  order 
of  the  community  which,  by  the  nature  of  their  property,  and 
the  degree  of  their  wealth,  might  have  a  particular  interest  in 
the  support  of  the  established  government,  as  well  as  power 
to  oppose  any  treacherous  attempts  against  it.  The  landed 
estate  must  be  oppressed;  the  rights  of  the  merchant  must  be 
arbitrarily  invaded,  and  his  property  forced  from  him  by  main 
force,  without  even  the  form  of  a  legal  proceeding.  It  will 
assist  him  much  if  he  can  contribute  to  the  destruction  of  the 

the  conference,  and  in  his  wiatb,  went  to  Stowe."  Lord  Temple  himself 
explains  the  matter  in  a  letter  to  his  sister,  the  Countess  of  Chatham,  dated 
July  27, 1766,  by  stating  that  he  had  received  the  proposition  of  Pitt  with 
indignation,  to  be  *'  stuck  into  a  ministry  as  a  great  cipher  at  the  head  of  the 
Treasury,  surrounded  with  other  ciphers  all  named  by  Mr.  Pitt,"  and  with 
the  politics  of  several  of  whom  he  differed.  He  had  acquiesced  in  the  sacri- 
fice of  a  brother,  Mr.  George  Grenville's  pretensions,  but  that  he  would  not^ 
in  the  projected  ministry,  "  go  in  'like  a  ckUd  and  come  out  like  a  foci** — 
Chatham  Correspondence,  voL  ii.  p.  468. 

The  wound  continued  open  a  couple  of  years,  but  through  the  mediatiou 
of  their  mutual  friend  Mr.  Calcraft,  and  repeated  advances  on  the  part  of 
Pitt,  a  reconciliation  was  effected.  Further  to  strengthen  the  £unily  coni* 
paet,  Mr.  Grenville  heartily  acceded  to  the  onion.— /<i.  vol  iii  p.  849.— Bik 

*  The  Duke  of  Bedfurd. 

i  Jtori  Bate. 


LETTEB8  OF  FQPLICOLA.  113 

poor  by  oontinaing  the  most  burthensome  taxes  upca  the 
main  articles  of  their  subsistence.  He  must  also  take  advan- 
tage of  any  favourable  conjuncture  to  try  how  far  the  nation 
will  bear  to  see  the  established  laws  su&pended  by  procla- 
mation, and  upon  such  occasions  he  must  not  be  without 
an  apostate  lawyer,  weak  enough  to  sacrifice  his  own  character, 
and  base  enough  to  betray  the  laws  of  his  country  *. 

These  are  but  a  few  of  the  pernicious  practices  by  which  a 
traitor  may  be  known,  by  which  a  free  people  may  be  en- 
slaYed.  But  the  masterpiece  of  his  treachery,  and  the  surest; 
of  answering  all  his  purposes,  would  be,  if  possible,  tc  foment 
such  discord  between  the  mother  country  and  her  colonies  as 
may  leave  them  both  an  easier  prey  to  his  own  dark  machinar 
tions.  With  this  patriotic  view,  he  will  be  ready  to  declare 
himself  the  patron  of  sedition  and  a  zealous  advocate  for  re- 
bellion. Hid  doctrines  will  correspond  with  the  proceedings 
of  the  people  he  protects,  and  if  by  his  assistance  they  can  ob- 
tain a  victory  over  the  supreme  legislature  of  the  empire,  he; . 
will  consider  that  victory  as  an  important  step  to\vards  the  ad* 
rancement  of  his  main  design  f. 

Such,  Sir,  in  any  free  state,  would  probably  be  the  conduct 
and  character  of  a  man  unnecessarily  trusted  with  exorbitant 
power.  He  must  either  succeed  in  establishing  a  tyranny  or 
perish.  I  cannot  without  horror  suppose  it  possible  that  this 
oar  native  country  should  ever  be  at  the  mercy  of  so  black  a 
villain.  But  if  the  case  should  happen  hereafter,  I  hope  the 
British  people  will  not  be  so  abandoned  by  Providence  as  not 
to  open  their  eyes  time  enough  to  save  themselves  from  de- 
atruction ;  and  though  we  have  no  Tarpeian  rock  for  the  im- 
mediate punishment  of  treason,  yet  we  have  impeachments; 
and  a  gibbet  is  not  too  honourable  a  situation  for  the  caroase 

of  a  traitor. 

POPLICOLA. 

*  This  mibject  is  fully  explained  in  many  parts  of  the  Letters  of  Junins, 
aiid  in  the  notes  now  subjoined  to  them.  The  character  alluded  to  is  £arl 
Camden,  at  that  time  Lord  Chancellor. 

f  hotd  Chatham,  then  Kr.  Pitt,  opposed  UTr.  Qeorge  Grenville's  Stamp 
A.ct,  «nd  denied  the  right  of  the  parliaoNnt  of  Great  Bntaio  to  Instate  Hdc 
America. 


VOL.  a 


114  MI8CELLAN£0U8  LETTEBS  ASCBIBED  TO  JUNIUS, 

LETTER  II. 

10  THE  PBINTEB  OF  THE  PUBLIO   ADVEBTISEB. 

Sir,  May  28, 1767. 

fouB  correspondent  CD.*  professes  to  undeceive  the  public 
with  respect  to  some  reflection^  thrown  out  upon  the  Earl  of 

*  Poplicola,  the  writer  of  this  reply,  by  some  means  or  other  mistook  the 
feal  signature,  which  instead  of  being  G.  D.  was  W.  D.  The  letter  is  dated 
finom  Clifton,  and  is  obviously  from  the  pen  of  Sir.  W.  Draper ;  affording  a 
singular  proof  that  the  Knight  of  the  Bath  and  Junius  were  political  oppo- 
nents  under  signatures  mutually  unknown,  and  so  §u  back  as  May,  1767. 
The  subject  of  Sir  William's  observations  was  a  defence  of  Lord  Chatham 
against  some  strong  observations  made  upon  his  character  by  Mr.  Wilkes,  in 
a  letter  addressed  to  the  Duke  of  Ghrafton,  relative  to  the  illegal  proceedinn 
of  the  Karl  of  Hali&x.  The  letter  is  dated  Paris,  Dec  12, 1768  [1766^ 
and  the  part  chiefly  adrerted  to  is  the  following : — 

"  I  believe  that  the  flinty  heart  of  Lord  Chatham  has  known  the  sweets 
of  private  friendship,  and  the  fine  feelings  of  humanity,  as  little  aa  even 
Lo^  Mansfield.  They  are  both  formed  to  be  admired,  not  beloved.  A 
proud,  insolent,  overbearing,  ambitious  ihan  is  always  full  of  the  ideas  of  hit 
own  importance,  and  vainly  imagines  himself  superior  to  the  equality  neeet- 
■ary  among  real  friends,  in  all  the  moments  of  true  enjoyment  Friendship 
is  too  pure  a  pleasure  for  a  mind  cankered  with  ambition,  or  the  lust  m 
power  and  grandeur.  Lord  Chatham  declared  in  parliament  the  strongest 
attachment  to  Lord  Temple,  one  of  the  greatest  characters  our  country  oonld 
ever  boast,  and  said  he  toould  Uve  and  die  with  hit  nobU  brother.  He  hat 
received  obligations  of  the  first  magnitude  from  that  noble  brother,  yet  what 
trace  of  gratitude  or  of  friendship  was  ever  found  in  any  part  of  his  conduct? 
and  has  he  not  now  declared  the  most  open  variance  and  even  hostility?  I 
have  had  as  warm  and  express  declarations  of  regard  as  could  be  made  by 
this  marble-hearted  friend,  and  Mr.  Pitt  had  no  doubt  his  views  in  even 
feeding  me  with  flattery  from  time  to  time ;  on  occasions,  too,  where  candour 
and  indulgence  were  all  I  could  claim.  He  may  remember  the  compliments 
he  paid  me  on  two  certain  poems  in  the  year  1754.  If  I  were  to  take  the 
declarations  made  by  himself  and  the  late  Mr.  Potter  d  la  leUre,  they  were 
more  charmed  with  those  verses  afier  the  ninety-ninth  reading  than  after 
the  first ;  so  that  firom  this  drcumstance,  aa  well  as  a  fisw  of  his  speeches  in 


'  There  is  no  species  of  evidence  so  conflicting  as  dates,  which,  without  the 
greatest  care,  are  apt  to  be  printed  inconectly.  In  Woodfidl's  edition  the 
date  is  given  as  1768 ;  in  Ahnon*s  Correspondence  qf  WiUeet  it  is  1767 ;  hut 
1766  is  manifestly  correct,  judging  from  the  dates  of  Wilkes's  tranaitoiy 
tisit  to  Bngland  in  the  winter  of  that  year,  and  his  return  to  Paris  ob  tka 
fiilnre  of  us  official  mit  to  the  Duke  of  Qnufton. — 'Ska, 


LBTTEBS  OF  FOPLICOLA.  I'iS 

Chatham  in  Mr.  Wilkes*s  letter  to  the  Duke  of  Graftou. 
Without  undertaking  the  defence  of  that  gentleman  *s  conduct 

paiiiament,  it  aeems  to  be  likewise  true  of  tike  first  orator,  or  rather  the  first 
comedian,  of  our  age,  non  ditpUcwine  tUijocos,  ted  non  cowUgitte, 

**  I  wiU  now  submit  to  your  Grace  if  there  was  not  something  peculiarly 
base  and  perfidious  in  Mr.  Pitt's  calling  me  a  blasphemer  qf  my  Ood  fur 
those  rery  verses,  at  a  time  when  I  was  absent,  and  dangerously  ill  from  an 
aflair  of  honour.  The  charge,  too,  he  knew  was  fidse,  for  the  whole  ridicule 
of  those  two  pieces  was  confined  to  certain  mysteries,  which  formerly  the 
wnpl€teed  and  unpensioned  Mr.  Pitt  did  not  tlunk  himself  obliged  even  t« 
affect  to  belieTe.  He  added  another  charge  equally  unjust,  that  I  was  the 
UbeUer  of  my  King,  though  he  was  sensible  that  I  never  wrote  a  single  line 
disrespectful  to  the  sacred  person  of  my  Sovereign,  but  had  only  attacked 
the  despotism  of  his  ministers,  with  the  spirit  booming  a  good  subject  and 
sealons  friend  of  his  country.  The  reason  of  this  perfidy  was  pUiin.  He 
was  then  beginning  to  pay  homage  to  the  Scottish  idol,  and  I  was  the  most 
acceptable  sacrifice  he  could  offer  at  the  shrine  of  Butb.  History  scarcely 
gives  so  remarkable  a  change.  He  was  a  few  years  ago  the  mad  seditious 
tribune  of  the  people,  insulting  his  Sovereign,  even  in  his  capital  city;  now 
he  is  the  abject  crouching  deputy  of  the  proud  S«>t,  who  he  declared  in 
parliament  wanted  wisdom,  and  held  principles  incompatible  w'th  freedom  i 
a  most  ridiculous  character  surely  for  a  statesman,  and  the  subject  of  a  free 
kingdom,  but  the  proper  composidon  for  a  favourite.  Was  it  possible  fcr 
me  alter  this  to  write  a  suppliant  letter  to  Lord  Chatham  ?  I  am  the  first  to 
pronounce  myself  most  unworthy  of  a  pardon  if  I  could  have  obtained  it  on 
those  terms. 

'*  Although  I  dedaie,  ray  Lord,  that  the  conscious  pride  of  virtue  makes 
Be  look  down  with  contempt  on  a  man  who  could  be  guilty  of  this  baseness, 
who  could  in  the  lobby  declare  that  I  must  be  supported,  and  in  the  House 
on  the  same  day  desert  and  revile  me,  yet  I  will  on  every  occasion  do  justice 
to  the  minister.  He  has  served  the  public  in  all  those  points  where  the 
good  of  the  nation  coincided  with  his  own  private  views,  and  in  no  other. 
I  venerate  the  memory  of  the  secretary,  and  I  think  it  an  honour  to  myself 
that  I  steadily  supported  in  parliament  an  administration  the  most  successfril 
we  ever  had,  and  which  carried  the  glory  of  the  nation  to  the  highest  pitch 
in  every  part  of  the  world.  He  found  his  country  almost  in  despair.  He 
laifeed  the  noble  spirit  of  Bngland,  and  strained  every  nerve  against  our 
enemies.  His  plans,  when  in  power,  were  always  great,  though  in  direct 
^position  to  the  declarations  of  his  whole  life  when  out  of  power.  The 
invincible  bravery  of  the  British  troops  gave  success  even  to  the  most  rash, 
the  most  extravagant,  the  most  desperate  of  his  projects.  He  saw  early  the 
hoctile  intentions  of  Spain,  and  if  the  icritten  advice  had  been  followed,  a 
^ery  few  weeks  had  then  probably  closed  the  last  general  war;  although  Uie 
merit  of  that  advice  was  more  the  merit  of  his  noble  brother  than  his  own. 
After  the  omnipotence  of  Lord  Bute  in  1761  had  forced  Mr.  Pitt  to  retire 
from  his  Majesty's  councils^  anri  the  cause  was  declared  by  himself  to  be  our 
conduct  zodative  to  Spain,  I  had  the  happiness  of  setting  that  affiur  in  so 
deer  and  advantageous  a  light  that  he  expressed  the  most  entire  MtisfoctioB 
fBftifnIar  obligations  to  my  friendship.    I  do  no^  however,  make  this  « 

Z  ft 


116         MISCELLANEOUS  LETTEB8   AflOglBBP     TO  JUNIUS. 

or  character,  permit  me  to  observe  that  lie  vna  the  instnv 
ment,  and  a  useful  oue,  to  the  party,  there&re  should  nothaTO 

elaim  of  merit  to  Mr.  Pitt    It  was  my  duty,  from  the  peculiar  adTaatB^ 
of  infonnatioii  X  theu  had." 

In  aoBwer  to  the9e  strictures  Sir  William  Draper,  in  the  letter  subscribed 
W.  D.,  and  which  is  too  long  to  be  copied  verbatim,  quotes  several  of  Hr. 
Wilkes's  previous  declarations  in  &vour  of  Lord  Chatham  while  Mr.  Pitt} 
and  concludes  as  follows : — 

**  The  letter  asserts  also  that  Lord  Chatham  is  now  the  abject  crouchins 
deputy  of  Lord  Bute,  who  he  declared  in  parliament  wanted  wisdom  and 
held  principles  incompatible  with  freedom.  The  world  knows  nothing  oi 
this  abject  crouching  deputed  miniiter  but  from  Mr.  Wilkes^s  angle  affirm** 
tion ;  but  we  all  know  that  his  Majesty  has  been  pleased  to  call '  Lord 
Chatham  again  to  the  ministry :  if  Lord  Bute  supports  him  in  it»  he  gives 
the  noblest  proof  of  generosity  and  greatness  of  soul,  and  has  revenged 
himself  in  the  finest  manner  upon  LoM  Chatham  for  those  expressions,  and 
affords  the  strongest  proof  that  he  does  not  waut  wisdom  or  hold  principles 
incompatible  with  freedom.  What  greater  proof  of  wisdom  can  he  give 
than  in  supporting  that  person  who  is  the  most  capable  of  doing  good  to  his 
country,  and  has  upon  all  occasions  approved  himself  the  most  sealons 
protector  of  its  liberties)  But  I  beg  pardon ;  upon  a  late  occasion,  indeed. 
Lord  Chatham  showed  himself  to  be  ho  friend  to  liberty;  he  was  so  very 
tyrannical,  as  well  as  Lord  Camden,  that  he  denied  some  traders  the  right, 
liberty,  and  privilege  of  starving  hii  fellow-citizens,  by  exporting  all  the  com 
out  of  the  kingdom,  for  which  he  has  met  with  his  reward,  and  been  as  mnck 
abused  as  if  he  himself  had  been  gnOty  of  starving  them*  Is  there,  .no 
Tarpeian  rock  for  such  a  tyrant? 

**  Mr.  Wilkes  has  now  done  with  Lord  Chatham,  leaving  him  to  the  poor 
consolation  of  a  place,  a  peerage,  and  a  pension ;  for  which,  he  says,  he  has 
sold  the  confidence  of  a  great  nation.  But  I  cannot  take  leave  of,  or  have 
done  with,  Mr.  Wilkes,  without  making  a  few  observations  upon  this  para- 
graph :  Mr.  Wilkes  is  a  great  jester ;  in  this  place  he  cannot  possibly  be 
serious;  for  as  to  the  pension,  I  think  I  cannot  explain  it  better  to  mj 
countrymen  than  in  Mr.  Wilkes's  own  words,  August  12,  1762. 

** '  I  must,  in  compliance  with  a  fiew  vulgar  writers,  call  the  inadequate 
reward  given  to  Mr.  Pitt,  for  as  great  services  as  ever  were  performed  by  a 
subject,  a  pension,  although  the  grant  is  not  during  pleasure,  and  therefore 
cannot  create  any  undue  unconstitutional  influence.  In  the  same  li^t  w 
are  to  consider  the  Dukes  of  Cumberland's  and  Marlborough's,  rrince 
Ferdinand's,  and  Admiral  Hawke's,  Mr.  Onslow's,  &c.  &c.  &c  I  was  going 
to  call  it  the  King's  gold  box ;  for  Mr.  Pitt  having  before  received  the  moat 
obliging  marks  of  regard  from  the  public,  the  testimony  of  his  SovereigH  tmly 
lemained  wanting.' 

**  Now  as  Mr.  Wilkes  has  so  fiilly  set  forth  the  nature  of  this  potiMftiy^  I 
cannot  thii^k  it  will  at  all  lessen  the  confidence  of  the  nation  in  Xiord 
Chatham ;  it  may  very  possibly  lessen  their  confidence  in  Mr.  Wilkes,  who 
has  contradicted  himself  so  frunously,  and  perhaps  destroy  tiiat  idea  oi 
coQaist»«ieT  which  the  gentleman  boasts  of  in  his  letter  to  the  Dvke  oi 


■  I  ^mmA~  9' ' 


lETTEBS  OF  POFLTCOLA.  117 

beea  sacrificed  by  it.  He  served  them,  periiaps,  with  too 
much  zeal ;  bat  such  is  the  reward  which  the  tools  of  fcictioD 
usually  receive,  and  in  some  measure  deserve,  when  they  are 
imprudent  enough  to  hazard  everything  in  support  of  other 
men's  ambition. 

I  cannot  admit  that,  because  Mr.  Pitt  was  respected  and 
honoured  a  few  years  ago,  the  Earl  of  Chatham  therefore  de- 
serves to  be  so  now ;  or  that  a  description,  which  might  have 
suited  him  at  one  part  of  his  life,  must  of  necessity  be  the 
only  one  applicable  to  him  at  another.  It  is  barely  possible 
that  a  very  honest  commoner  may  become  a  very  corrupt  and 
worthless  peer;  and  I  am  inclined  to  suspect  that  Mr.  CD. 
will  find  but  few  people  credulous  enough  to  believe  that 
either  Mr.  Pitt  or  Mr.  Pulteney,  when  they  accepted  of  a 
title,  did  not,  by  that  action,  betray  their  friends,  their  coun- 
try, and,  in  every  honourable  sense,  themselves.  Mr.  C.  D. 
Wufnlly  misrepresents  the  cause  of  that  censure,  which  was 
very  justly  thrown  upon  Lord  Chatham  when  the  exportation 
of  com  was  prohibited  by  proclamation.  The  measure  itself 
was  necessary,  and  the  more  necessary  from  the  scandalous 
delay  of  the  ministry  in  calling  the  parliament  together;  but 
to  maintain  that  the  proclamation  was  legal,  and  that  there 
was  a  suspending  power  lodged  in  the  crown,  was  such  an 
outrage  to  the  common  sense  of  mankind,  and  such  a  daring 
attack  upon  the  constitution,  as  a  free  people  ought  never  to 
forgive.  The  man  who  maintained  those  doctrines  ought  to 
have  had  the  Tarpeian  rock  or  a  gibbet  for  his  rewctrd.  An- 
other gentleman,  upon  that  occasion,  had  spirit  and  patriotism 
enoufifh  to  declare,  even  in  a  respectable  assembly,  that  when 
he  advised  the  proclamation,  he  did  it  with  the  strongest  con- 
viction of  its  being  illegal ;  but  he  rested  his  defence  upon 
the  unavoidable  necessity  of  the  case,  and  submitted  himself 
to  the  judgment  of  his  country.  This  noble  conduct  deserved 
the  applause  and  gmtitude  of  the  nation,  while  that  of  the 
Earl  of  Chatham  and  his  miserable  understrappers  deserved 
nothing  but  detestation  and  contempt. 

POPLICOLA. 

Qnhoikf  where  be  asiuies  his  Grace  that,  '  however  un&shionaUe  such  a 
deelsFation  may  be,  consistency  shall  never  depaprt  from  his  character.'  The 
fcador  has  the  prooib  before  him,  and  will  indge  of  't  accordingly.     W.  D." 


tl8  MISOELLANBOUS  LETTERS  ASCBIHED   TO   JUNIIS. 


LETTER  III. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIO  ADVERTISER. 

June  24,  1767. 
Aocedere  matrera    muliebri   impotentil;   serviendam  foeminse,  daobiuqu« 
insnper  nebulonibus,  qui  rempublicam  interim  premant,  quandoque  dis* 
trahant  *. — Tacitus  V  jinnaliuTo, 

The  uncertain  state  of  politics  in  this  country  sets  all  the 
speculations  of  the  press  at  defiance.  To  talk  of  modem 
ministers,  or  to  examine  their  conduct,  would  be  to  reason 
without  data ;  for  whether  it  be  owing  to  the  real  simple  inno- 
cence of  doing  nothing,  or  to  a  happy  mysteTiousness  in  con- 
cealing their  activity,  we  know  as  little  of  the  services  they 
have  performed  since  it  became  their  lot  to  appear  m  the 
Gazette^  as  we  did  of  their  persons  or  characters  before.  They 
seem  to  have  come  together  by  a  sort  of  fortuitous  concourse, 
and  have  hitherto  done  nothing  else  hut  jumble  and  jostle  one 
another,  without  heing  ahle  to  settle  into  any  one  regular 
or  consistent  figure.  I  am  not,  however,  such  an  atheist  in 
politics  as  to  suppose  that  there  is  not  somewhere  an  original 
creating  cause,  which  drew  these  atoms  forth  into  existence ; 
but  it  seems  the  utmost  skill  and  cunning  of  that  secret 
governing  hand  could  go  no  further.  To  create  or  foment 
confusion,  to  sacrifice  the  honour  of  a  king,  or  to  destroy  the 
happiness  of  a  nation,  requires  no  talent  but  a  natural  itch  for 
doing  mischief.  We  have  seen  it  performed  for  years  succes- 
sively, with  a  wantonness  of  triumph,  by  a  man  who  had  nei- 
ther abilities  nor  personal  interest,  nor  even  common  personal 
courage  f.      It  has  been  possible  for  a  notorious  coward, 

*  *'  To  these  reflectioni  the  public  added  the  dread  of  a  mother  raging  with 
all  the  impotence  of  female  ambition  :  a  whole  people,  thej  urged,  were  to  be 
enslaved  by  a  woman  and  two  juveniles,  who  in  the  beginning  would  hang 
heavy  on  the  state,  and  in  the  end  distract  and  rend  it  to  pieces  by  their 
own  dissensions." 

*(*.  The  notion  that  the  influence  of  the  Earl  of  Bute,  who  is  here  alluded 
to,  continued  long  after  his  retirement — that  be  formed  the  "  influence  he- 
hind  the  throne  greater  than  the  throne  itself** — was  long  a  popular  delusion 
encouraged  by  &ction.  It  ivas  only  suspected,  never  supported  by  any 
pioc/;  nnd  General  Conway,  while  Secretary  of  State,  denied  that  he  "had 
ever  seen,  felt,  or  discovered,"  any  such  influence.  The  imputation  was  ex* 
plidtly  denied  by  Lord  Monntstuart,  the  fiarl'i  son,  who,  in  a  letter  wtittei 


LETTER  OV  ANTI-SEJANUS*.  119 

skulkiDg'  under  a  petticoat,  to  make  a  great  nation  the  prey  of 
his  avarice  and  ambition.     But  I  trust  the  time  is  not  \ery 
distant  when  we  shall  see  him  dragged  forth  from  his  retire 
ment,  and  forced  to  answer  severely  for  all  the  mischiefs  he 
hath  brought  upon  us. 

It  is  worth  while  to  consider,  though  perhaps  not  safe  to 
point  out,  by  what  arts  it  hath  been  possible  for  him  to  main 
tain  himself  so  long  in  power,  and  to  dcreen  himself  from 
national  justice.  Some  of  them  have  been  obvious  enough ; 
the  rest  may  without  difficulty  be  guessed  at.  But  whatever 
they  are,  it  is  not  above  a  twelvemonth  ago  since  they  might 
have  all  been  defeated,  and  the  venomous  spider  itself  caught 
and  trampled  on  in  its  own  webs.  It  was  then  his  good  for 
tone  to  corrupt  one  man,  from  whom  we  least  of  all  expected 
80  base  an  apostacy*.  Who,  indeed,  could  have  suspected 
that  it  should  ever  consist  with  the  spirit  or  understanding 
of  that  person  to  accept  of  a  share  of  power  under  a  pernicious 
court  minion,  whom  he  himself  had  affected  to  detest  or  de- 
spise, as  much  as  he  knew  he  was  detested  and  despised  by 
the  whole  nation  ?  I  will  not  censure  him  for  the  avarice  of 
a  pension,  nor  the  melancholy  ambition  of  a  title.  These 
were  objects  which  he  perhaps  looked  up  to,  though  the  rest 
of  tihe  world  thought  mem  far  beneath  his  acceptance.  But, 
to  beeome  the  stalking-horse  of  a  stallion;  to  shake  hands 
with  a  Scotchman  at  the  hazard  of  catching  all  his  infamy; 
to  fight  under  his  auspices  against  the  constitution ;  and  to 

in  October,  1778,  declared  that  "he  (Lord  Bute)  does  therefore  anthoriie 
me  to  say,  that  he  declares  npon  his  solemn  word  of  honour  that  he  has  not 
had  the  honour  of  waiting  on  his  Majestjr  but  at  his  levee  or  drawing-room ; 
nor  has  he  presumed  to  o^r  any  advice  or  opinion  concerning  the  disposition 
of  offices,  or  the  conduct  of  measures,  either  directly  or  indirectly,  by  him- 
self or  any  other,  from  the  time  when  the  late  Duke  of  Cumberland  vras 
consulted  on  the  arrangement  of  a  ministry  in  1766  to  the  present  hour.'* 
Lord  Bute  had  neither  the  abilities  nor  the  ambition  of  a  statesman ;  his 
sympathies  were  chiefly  limited  to  the  Princess-Dowager  of  Wales  and  the 
purlieus  of  the  court,  and  did  not  extend  to  national  affidrs. — Bd. 

*  For  the  reasons  assigned  on  the  authorship  of  Poplicola's  letters,  this 
attack  on  the  Earl  of  Chatham  renders  it  unlikely  that  Anii-Sejanu$  was 
Junius.  Cbflitham's  peerage  and  pension  appear  for  a  time  to  have  lessened  his 

Sipularity,  and  this  is  laid  to  have  been  the  Machiavellitti  result  Lord 
ute  intended  by  the  grant  of  them.  But  it  was  only  a  temporary  loss,  and 
Pitt's  great  and  popular  talents  soon  raised  him  above  the  obscuration  cf  hit 
coronet.-^B]>. 


120  MISCELL^EOUS  USTKBRS  ABCBIBED  TO  JXmiUS. 

"eceive  the  word  from  him,  prerogative  and  a  thistle;  (bj 
the  once  respected  name  of  Pitt!)  it  i]9  even  below  con- 
tempt.  But  it  seems  that  this  unhappy  country  had  long 
enough  been  distracted  by  their  divisions,  and  in  the  last  in- 
stance was  to  be  oppressed  by  their  union.  May  that  union^ 
honourable  as  it  is,  subsist  for  eiver !  may  they  continue  to 
smell  at  one  thistle,  and  not  be  separated  even  in  death ! 

ANTI-SBJANUS,  Jm 


LETTER  rV. 

TO  THE  PBINTEB  OF  THE  PUBLIC  ADYEBTISEB. 

Snt,  St  James's  Coffee  House,  August  25, 1767. 

I  HATE  been  some  time  in  the  country,  which  has  prevented 
your  hearing  sooner  from  me.  I  find  you  and  your  brother 
printers  have  got  greatly  into  a  sort  of  knack  of  stuffing  your 
papers  with  fiummery  upon  two  certain  brothers  *,  who  are 
labour-in-vain  endeavouring  to  force  themselves  out  of  the 
world*s  contempt.  I  have  great  good  will  to  you,  and  hope  you 
are  well  paid  for  this  sort  of  noni^ense  f ,  as  indeed  you  ought 
to  be,  for  it  certainly  disgraces  your  paper.  It  is  in  vain  that 
your  friends  assure  the  coffee-house  that  these  things  are 
wrote  by  the  brothers  themselves ;  that  you  believe  no  more 
of  them  than  the  rest  of  the  world  does ;  and  that  you  only 
put  them  in  to  show  your  extreme  impartiality,  which  some- 
times obliges  you  to  insert  the  most  improbable  stories;  I 
would  therefore  advise  you  as  a  friend,  to  give  up  this  noble 
pair  as  enfans  perdus, 

I  am  not  a  stranger  to  this  par  nohik  fratrum.  I  have 
served  under  the  one,  and  have  been  forty  times  promised  to 
be  MTved  by  the  other.  I  don*t  think  it  possible  to  charac- 
terize either  without  having  recourse  to  the  other ;  but  any- 
body who  knows  one  of  them  may  easily  obtain  an  idea  of  the 
other.  Thus  now :  suppose  you  acquainted  with  the  Chan- 
cellor, take  away  his  ingenuity,  and  a  something  that  at  times 

*  Lord  Townshend,  and  bis  brother,  Cbarles  Townsbend,  tbe  former  just 
appointed  Lord-Lieutenant  of  Ireland,  and  the  bitter  at  this  time  Chaneellttt 
at  the  Exeheqner.— Ed. 

t  Of  Charles,  see  note,  vol.  \.  p.  15i».>— Jb. 


LETTEB  OF  CORBISGaiO.  Iftl 

looks  somethiiig  like  good  nature,  but  it  is  not,  and 'you  have 
the  direct  and  actual  character  of  the  peer :  a  boaster  without 
ppirit,  and  a  pretender  to  wit  without  a  grain  of  sense ;  in  a 
word,  a  vain-glorious  idler  without  one  single  good  quality  of 

bead  or  heart.     I  hope  his  a£^rs  with  Lord and  Mr. 

.  are  the  only  instances  of  his  setting  out  with  unneces* 
saty  insolence,  and  ending  with  shameful  tameness.  But  is 
such  a  man  likely  to  please  the  brave  Irish,  whose  hasty 
tempers,  or  whose  blunders,  may  sometimes  lead  them  into  a 
quarrel,  but  whose  swords  always  carry  them  through  it? 
Are  these  the  pair  who  are  to  give  stability  to  a  wavering 
favourite,  and  permanency  to  a  locum  tenem  administration  ? 
Alas!  alas! 

Non  tali  aazilio,  nee  defensoribut  ittis 
TempiD  eget : 

And  is  it  by  such  a  prop  that  Grafton  thinks  to  stand,  after 
throwing  down  his  idol  Pitt,  at  whose  false  altar  he  had  be- 
fore sacrificed  his  friends?  Is  it  for  such  a  man  that  Conwaj 
foregoes  the  connections  of  his  youth  and  the  friends  of  his 
best  and  ripest  judgment. — 0  tempora !  0  mores ! 

A  FAITHFUL  MONITOR. 


LETTER  V*. 

TO   THE   PRINTER  OF  THE   PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 
Sib,  September  16, 1767. 

His  Excellency  the  Lord  Lieutenant  of  Ireland  f  is  said  to 
have  a  singular  turn  for  portrait  painting,  which  he  willingly 
employs  in  the  service  of  his  friends.  He  performs  gratis, 
and  seldom  gives  them  the  trouble  of  sitting  for  their  pictures. 
But  I  believe  the  talents  of  this  ingenious  nobleman  never 
had  so  fair  an  occasion  of  being  emj^oyed  to  advantage  as  at 

*  The'  following  answer  to  oorreipondents  la  the  Pvhlic  Advertittr  of 
Sept.  16,  identifies  Junius  to  haye  been  the  writer  of  this  letter :  "  Ow 
correspondent  G.  will  observe  that  we  have  obeyed  his  directions  in  every 

Krticnlar,  and  we  shall  always  pay  the  utmost  attention  to  whatevei  •omes 
m  so  Masterly  a  pen.'' 
f  Lord  Townshend. 


mi         HISOEIXANEOnS  LETTEBS  ASCRIBED  TO   JUNIUS, 

present  '  It  happens  very  fortunately  for  him,  that  he  hat 
now  a  set  of  friends  who  seem  intended  by  nature  for  the 
subjects  of  such  a  pencil.  In  delineating  their  features  to  the 
public  he  will  have  an  equal  opportunity  of  displaying  the 
aelicacy  of  his  hand,  and,  upon  which  he  chiefly  piques  him- 
self, the  benoYolence  of  his  heart.  But,  considering  the  im- 
portance of  his  present  cares,  I  would  &in  endeavour  to  save 
him  the  labour  of  the  design,  in  hopes  that  he  will  bestow  a 
few  moments  more  upon  the  execution.  Yet  I  will  not  pre- 
sume to  claim  the  merit  of  invention.  The  blindness  of 
chance  has  done  more  for  the  painter  than  the  warmest  fancy 
could  have  imagined,  and  has  brought  together  such  a  group 
of  figures  as,  I  believe,  never  appeared  in  real  life,  or  upon 
canvas  before. 

Your  principal  character,  my  Lord,  is  a  young  duke 
mounted  upon  a  lofty  phaeton;  his  head  grows  giddy;  hia 
horses  carry  him  violently  down  a  precipice;  and  a  hk>od^ 
carcase,  the  fatal  emblem  of  Britannia,  lies  mut^Mi  under  hia 
wheels.  By  the  side  of  this  funooi  ^arioteer  sits  Caution 
without  foresight  f,  a  xoatlsy^ing,  half  military,  s(»urce  civil. 
He  too  wouid  ^rade,  l)ut,  let  who  will  drive,  is  determined  to 
tere  a  seat  in  the  carriage.  If  it  be  possible,  my  Lord,  give 
him  to  us  in  the  attitude  of  an  orator  eating  the  end  of  a  pe- 
riod, which  may  begin  with,  I  did  not  say  I  vmdd  pledge  my- 
self — The  rest  he  eats. 

Your  next  figure  mpst  bear  the  port  and  habit  of  a  judge 
The  laws  of  England  under  his  feet,  and  before  his  distorted 
vision  a  digger,  which  he  calls  the  law  of  nature,  and  which 
marshals  him  the  way  to  the  murder  of  the  constitution  \, 

In  such  good  company  the  respectable  president  of  the 
council  cannot  possibly  be  omitted  *.  A  reasonable  number 
of  decrees  must  be  piled  up  behind  him,  with  the  word  re- 
V£RSED  in  capital  letters  upon  each  of  them ;  and  out  of  his 

•  The  Duke  of  Ghrafton. 

f  Mr.  Conway,  Secretary  of  State  for  the  northern  department 
X  Lord  Camden.  A  scarcity  of  grain  having  been  experienced  during  tht 
recesiy  goTemment  had  taken  upon  itself  to  stop  the  exportation  of  com,  in 
defiance  of  an  act  of  parliament  that  granted  a  bounty  for  exporting  it. 
The  legality  of  this  measure  of  a  proclamation  having  been  fuestioned^ 
Lord  Camden  maintained  that,  in  a  case  of  necessity,  the  crown  wa»  po» 
•pssed  of  a  legal  power  to  suspend  the  operation  of  an  act  of  the  legi»kitvnk 
See  this  inbject  further  touched  upon  in  Jnnins,  Letter  ^,  troL  L  p.  •417* 


LETTEft  OF  COBBEGGIO.  123 

iecBDt  lips  a  compliment  d  la  Tilbury,  Hell  and  d'  li. 

blast  you  alL     ♦    ♦    *    *    ♦ 

There  is  still  a  young  man,  my  Lord,  who  I  think  will 
make  a  capital  figure  in  the  piece.  His  features  are  too  hap- 
pily marked  to  he  mistaken.  A  single  line  of  his  face  will  he 
sufficient  to  give  us  the  heir  apparent  of  Loyola  and  all  the 
college.  A  little  more  of  the  devil,  my  Lord^  if  you  please, 
about  the  eyebrows ;  that 's  enough ;  a  perfect  Malagrida,  I  pro- 
test f !  So  much  for  his  person ;  and  as  for  his  mind,  a  blink- 
ing bull-dog  I  placed  near  him,  will  form  a  very  natural  type 
of  all  his  good  qualities. 

Those  are  the  figures  which  are  to  come  forward  to  tho 
front  of  the  piece.  Your  friendship  for  the  Earl  of  Bute  wiL 
naturally  secure  a  comer  in  the  retirement  for  him  and  his 
curtain.     Provided  you  discover  him     •     *     •     •    •  §. 

If  there  are  still  any  vacancies  in  the  canvas,  you  will  easily 
till  them  up  with  fixtures  or  still  life.  Tou  may  show  us  half 
A  paymaster  for  instance,  with  a  paper  stuck  upon  the  globe 
of  Ins  eye,  and  a  lable  out  of  his  mouth,  No,  Sir;  I  am  of 
father  side,  Sir,  How  I  lament  that  sounds  cannot  be  con- 
veyed to  the  eye  ||  I 

You  may  give  us  a  commander-in-chief  If  and  a  secrettny  nt 
war  *  *  seendng  to  pull  at  two  ends  of  a  rope  ;  while  a  slip-knot 
in  the  middle  may  nearly  strangle  three-fourths  of  the  army ; 
or  a  lunatic  brandishing  a  crutch  W,  or  bawling  through  a 
grate,  or  writing  with  desperate  charcoal  a  letter  to  North 
America ;  or  a  Scotch  secretary  teaching  the  Irish  people  the 

*  Lord  Northington,  formerly  Lord  Chancellor,  one  or  two  of  whose  decrees 
had,  at  the  above  period,  been  reversed ;  a  circumstance,  however,  which 
may  possibly  be  as  attribntable  to  his  not  having  sufficiently  applied  himself 
to  the  cases  in  question  as  to  any  natural  deficiency  of  judgment.  His 
manners  had  certainly  not  been  studied  in  the  refined  school  of  Lord 
Chesterfield. 

i*  Lord  Shelbume,  at  that  time  Secretary  of  State  for  the  southern  de< 
partment. 

Z  Col.  Barr6,  then  vice-treasurer  of  Ireland. 

§  A  lady,  who  was  thought  to  have'  considerable  influence,  is  hen 
Blinded  to. 

I  Lord  North  and  Mr.  (afterwards  Sir)  G.  Cooke,  were  joint  pnynusten) 
the  fanner  of  whom  is  ridiculed. 

IT  The  Marquis  of  Qianby. 

**  Lord  Barriqgton. 

ff  Lord  Chatham. 


124         mSCELLANEOUS  LETTERS  ASOBIBBH  TO  JUIOTTS. 

true  pronunciation  of  the  English  language.  That  barbarous 
people  are  but  little  accustomed  to  figures  of  oratory,  90  that 
you  may  represent  him  in  any  attitude  you  think  proper, 
from  that  of  Sir  Gilbert  Elliot*  down  to  Governor  John- 
stone. They,  however,  are  but  the  slighter  ornaments  of 
composition,  and  so  I  leave  them  to  the  choice  of  your  own 
luxurious  fancy. 

The  back  ground  may  be  shadowed  with  the  natural  obscu- 
rity of  Scotch  clerks  and  Scotch  secretaries,  who  may  be 
itched  out  to  the  life,  with  one  hand  grasping,  a  pen,  the 
other  riveted  in  their  respective  ♦♦♦♦*♦♦.  Your 
southern  writers  are  apt  to  rub  their  foreheads  in  an  agony 
of  composition ;  but  with  Scotchmen  the  seat  of  inspiration 
lies  in  a  lower  place,  which,  while  the  fubor  is  upon  them, 
they  lacerate  without  mercy.  By  this  delectable  friction,  their 
imaginations  become  as  prurient  as  their  *****  *^ 
and  the  latter  are  relieved  from  one  sort  of  matter,  while 
their  brains  are  supplied  with  another.  Everything  they 
write,  in  short,  is  polished  ad  unguem. 

But  amidst  all  the  licence  of  your  wit,  my  Lord,  I  must 
entreat  you  to  remember  that  there  is  one  character  too  high 
and  too  sacred  even  for  the  pencil  of  a  peer,  though  your 
Lordship  has  formerly  done  business  for  the  family.  Besides, 
the  attempt  would  be  unnecessary.  The  true  character  of 
that  great  person  is  engraven  in  the  hearts  of  the  Irish 
nation ;  and  as  to  a  false  one,  they  need  only  take  a  survey 
of  the  person  and  manners  of  their  chief  governor,  if,  in  the 
midst  of  their  distresses,  they  can  laugh  at  the  perfect  carica- 
ture of  a  king  f. 

OOEBEGMJIO. 

*  At  that  time  Irish  Becretary. 

f  This  is  an  amusing  daub  of  scnmlity,  but  astoredlj  not  a  JuniiMk  He 
would  not  have  described  Chatham,  for  reasons  ahready  adduced,  as  '*  a  lonatic 
brandishing  a  cratch,  or  bawling  through  a  gaate."  Had  Dew  Swift  b^ei; 
■live  it  might  Lave  passed  for  a  dash  of  his  satiric  fansh. — Kd. 


LETTEB    OF  IfOBSBAipB.  125 

JJBTTEKVi. 

TO  THB   PBINTEB  OF  THE  PUBUO  APYEBTISSB. 

Sir,  October  12, 1767. 

There  has  been  for  some  time  past  a  very  curious  altercation 
carried  on  through  your  paper  between  FhUo-Yeritatis  and 
No  Ghost.  This  altercation  has  hitherto  been  carried  on  like 
other  political  disputes,  by  affirmatives  and  negatives,  asser- 
tions and  contradictions,  good  hits  and  smart  repartees.  Thisr 
.8  the  kind  of  combat  usually  fought  on,  and  indeed  the  only 
one  adapted  to,  the  field  of  a  public  paper.  But  I  perceive, 
not  without  anxiety,  that  another  species  of  battle  is  likely  to' 
take  place  between  the  two  champions  whom  I  have  men- 
tioned *,    In  this  I  am  too  much  concerned  to  remain  neuter.: 

■  1  ■  ) 

'  *  The  following  extract  from  the  letter  of  PAtYo^Fentofif,  in  the  PvbHe 
idveriiw,  will  enable  the  reader  the  better  to  understand  the  allusicmi  m 
tie  present  letter. 

"  That  his  EzcellencT  the  present  Lord  Lieutenant  of  Ireland  commanded 
%t  Quebec  is  indispntable.  Captain  Schomberg,  as  gallant  an  officer  as  any 
in  the  navy,  and  who,  with  the  braye  Captain  Dean,  bnrnt  and  destroyed  th»^ 
French  fleet,  had  the  honoor  to  convey  him  np  the  Gulph  of  St.  Lawrenee^' 
where  his  Excellency  multiplied  his  military  glory ;  and  here  I  cannot  omit 
an  anecdote  relating  to  his  Lordship,  which  occurred  at  Dettingen  in  Qw' 
many.  In  the  verv  hjeat  of  the  carnage  of  that  day,  and  amidst  the  horrors 
of  almost  universal  desolation,  a  soldier,  fighting  near  his  Lordship's  side, 
was  killed  by  a  cannon  ball ;  part  of  his  brains  flew  out,  and  some  on  his 

Lordship's  clothes  and  in  his  fiMse.     The  braT«  General  G being  near' 

him,  said,  *  My  Lord,  this  is  terrible  work  to-day.*  '  So  it  is,'  repliml  his 
Lordship,  wiping  himself,  with  great  calmness;  'but  one  would  imagine. 
General,  this  man  had  too  much  brains  to  be  here ;'  at  the  same  time  tears 
of  manly  pity  filled  his  compassionate'  eyes. 

**  Now  if  humanity,  intrepidity,  and  what  the  French  justly  distinguisi 
by  the  name  of  saTig  froid,  be  the  characteristics  of  a  vidiant  soldier,  my. 
fitveiirite  Lord  (and  such  I  am  proud  to  ovm  him)  can,  as  the  lawyers  say, 
make  out,  even  firom  this  single  story,  a  good  title,  fud  does  deserve  (as  T 
have  before  averrod)  to  have  his  name  inscribed  in  adamantine  letters  on  a 
column  of  eternal  &me ;  and  if  Mr.  iV^o  Ghost  disputes  it,  I  (in  the  ancient 
style  of  the  heralds)  defy  him :  I  aceept  his  gauntlet,  and  stand  forth  hit 
Lordship's  avowed  champion,  though  a  bad  one,  ready  to  fight  in  his  defence^ 
^her  with  pistol  or  pen,  and  desiro  i^o  Ohott  to  accept  of  a  Roland  for  hit 
Oliver  in  a  scrap  i    Latin  on  my  side. 

"  Partwiwnt  montes  ;  wucetw  ridieulus  mus.    Bye  bye,  Mr.  No  Ghosi, . 
**  October  2.  Fhilo-Yiutitis.^' 


126         MISCELLANEOUS  UETTEBS  ASOBIBED  TO  JUNIUS. 

r  have  courage  enough  to  draw  my  pen  upon  any  man,  bat  I 
should  be  very  unwilling  to  draw  my  sword :  the  pop-gun  of 
wit  I  can  stand,  but  a  pistol  is  what  I  dare  not  face.  Some- 
how or  other  I  haye  tcdten  it  into  my  head,  that  the  dull  and 
heavy  argument  of  a  pistol  ball  is  more  convincing  than  the 
piost  'elaborate  reasoning,  or  the  keenest  wit  which  can  be 
delivered  by  a  pen.  Alas,  Sir,  what  then  shall  I  do  ?  Shall 
I  remain  silent,  whilst  No  Ghost  affirms  that  the  Lord 
Lieuteuant  of  Ireland  is  a  coward,  and  PhUo-VeritatU  {e  con- 
tra)  declares  him  a  bmve  and  undaunted  soldier? — It  is 
of  little  importance  which  side  I  am  inclined  to  from  judg- 
ment. If  1  declare  in  favour  of  PhUo-Veritatis,  I  incur  the 
danger  of  a  pen  which  he  himself  seems  to  think  very  sharp — 
indeed  so  sharp,  as  to  beg  of  his  opponent  to  lay  it  aside,  and 
take  up  a  pistol ;  on  the  other  hand,  if  I  join  with  No  Ghost, 
1  have  a  pistol  at  my  head,  which  may  make  a  ghost  of  me. 
Thus  circumstanced  I  will  not  take  either  part,  but  offer  my- 
self as  a  friend  to  both,  to  measure  the  ground,  give  the  word, 
and  carry  off  the  body  of  whichever  shall  fall  in  the  field  of 
honour.  In  this  character  I  shall  beg  (previous  to  their  en 
gagement)  to  state  a  few  points  not  yet  decided  between  them, 
and  which  they  have  not  yet  carried  far  enough  in  discussion 
to  require  the  decision  of  powder  and  ball.  Give  me  leave 
first  (though  I  declare  no  prepossession  in  his  favour)  to  com- 
pliment PhUo'Veritatis,  the  advocate  for  his  Lordship's 
courage,  on  his  own  bravery,  who,  under  a  fictitious  name, 
challenges  with  the  utmost  intrepidity  to  single  and  mortal 
combat,  a  nameless  opponent.  1  should  spend  some  time, 
and  take  some  pains,  to  turn  this  compliment  and  make  it 
worthy  of  him,  but  that  I  dare  say  he  is  sufficiently  applauded 
already,  by  those  to  whom  he  has  revealed  himself,  for  such 
an  unexampled  piece  of  heroism. 

Now,  to  my  purpose:  Philp-Veritatis  asserts  that  his 
hero,  Lord  Townshend,  gave  proofs  of  his  bravery  at  Minden 
and  Quebec.  No  Ghost  denies  the  fact,  upon  the  presumed 
impossibility  of  his  transporting  himself  from  one  of  these 
places  to  the  other  in  the  space  of  ten  days,  unless  he  could 
fiy,  and  that  very  fast  too.  ^o'k  flying  being  a  quality  which 
PhilO'Veritatis  does  not  choose  to  ascribe  (whatever  belief 
it  might  gain  with  the  public)  to  his  hero,  answers  this  in 
somewhat  of  a  new  way :  *'  This  objection,**  says  he,   *  has  no 


LETTEB  OF  IfODEBATOB.  127 

weight,  and  is  made  only  to  introduce  a  scrap  of  Latin  and  a 
witticism.**  This  may  be  a  very  good  answer  at  cross  pur- 
poses ;  but  is,  I  confess,  a  very  whimsical  one  in  the  present 
case.  Surely,  Sir,  this  matter  is  not  yet  come  so  close  to  a 
point  as  to  require  the  arbitration  of  a  pistol.  Let  PhiUh 
VeritatU  again  (for  he  has  once  already  done  it)  affirm,  that  the 
hero  was  present  at  both  actions ;  No  Ghost  denies  it ;  Philo 
gives  the  lie;  No  Ghost  knocks  him  down,  and  then  the 
pistol  enters  as  naturally  as  possible,  and  without;  the  smallest 
breach  of  the  rule  which  Horace  has  laid  down  on  this  occa- 
sion :  Nee  Deus  intersit,  nisi  dignus  vindice  nodus. 

No  Ghost  having  denied  that  his  Lordship  was  actually 
present  at  both  places,  Philo  seems  to  fear  lest  we  should 
doubt  that  he  was  at  either.  Minden  he  gives  up ;  but  being 
resolved  to  prove  that  he  was  at  Quebec,  he  informs  us  that 
the  brave  Captain  Schomberg  had  the  honour  of  conveying 
him  up  the  Gulph  of  St.  Lawrence,  where  his  Lordship  muJIr 
Hplied  his  glory.  Thejse  are  the  words.  It  is  not  my  business 
to  make  remarks ;  but  Philo  will  tell  us  where  this  multipli- 
cation table  may  be  found ;  and  I  would  recommend  his  Lord- 
ship to  study  it  most  attentively ;  he  need  go  no  further  in 
this  kind  of  arithmetic ;  the  neoct  rule  will  be  quite  unneces- 
sary, as  I  presume  no  one  will  desire  to  divide  with  his  Lord- 
ship. Now,  if  I  guess  right,  the  No  Ghost  will  not  deny 
that  the  brave  Schomberg  conveyed  him  up  the  gulph,  and 
therefore  this  does  not  call  very  loudly  for  the  pistol.  Every 
one  will  acknowledge  that  Lord  Townshend  was  at  Quebec ; 
for  every  one  remembers  his  letter  from  thence;  and  perhaps 
Philo  can  tell  who  the  secretary  was. 

To  this  multiplication  of  glory,  Philo  makes  an  addition  of 
an  anecdote,  which,  as  he  says,  occurred  to  his  Lordship  in 
Germany ;  indeed,  occurred!  An  anecdote  occurred ;  a  curious 
occurrence  it  was.  First  let  us  see  the  inference  which  Philo 
draws  from,  and  then  we  shall  relate  the  occurrence  itself. 
It  is,  that  the  humanity  of  his  favourite  Lord  (for  such  he  is 
proud  to  own  him)  is  established  by  it.  The  occurrence  is, 
that  a  soldier  being  killed  near,  his  brains  were  scattered 
upon  his  Lordship's  clothes.  A  stander-by  remarks,  '*  that 
tnis  is  terrible  work.*'  "  True,'*  says  his  Lordship ;  "  but 
ime  would  have  thought  this  fellow  had  too  much  brains  to 

be  here.'* Header,  remark  this,  and  if  you  doubt  of  hid 

Lordship's  humanity,  vou  are  infidel  enough  to  doubt  of  his 


lS8         WIBCELLANEOUS  LETTERS  ASCBIBED   TO  JUKIVH. 

courage.  Well,  he  burst  into  tears :  and  who  could  chcosc 
but  weep  at  a  sentiment  of  such  tender,  compassionate,  and 
sympathizing  humanity !  No  one,  that  I  know  of,  can  sup* 
pose  these  tears  shed  from  that  depression  of  spirits  whidi 
the  extremity  of  fear  sometimes  causes,  and  which  finds  son^ 
ease  from  an  inyoluntary  overflow  at  the  eyes.  Never  had 
such  humanity  such  a  panegyrist ;  it  does  indeed  deserve  to 
be  inscribed  on  iidamantine  pillan  of  eternal  fame,  as  PkUo 
elegantly  expresses  it.  Now,  as  he  is  such  an  admirer  of 
humanity  in  others,  let  me  ccdl  on  his  own  humanity  not  tc 
avail  himself  of  the  assistance  of  a  pistol  on  this  occasion ;  as 
I  will  venture  to  answer  for  Mr.  No  Ghosts  that  he  will  not 
take  up  the  gauntlet  which  Philo  has  so  bravely  thrown 
down,  offering  him  the  choice  of  pen  or  pistol.  Alas,  Philo ! 
at  the  first  of  these  weapons  you  are  by  no  means,  indeed  you 
lure  not,  a  match  for  No  Ghost ;  and  for  the  use  of  the  last,  you 
might  chance  to  be  hanged,  and  thus  unfortunately  frustrate 
his  Lordship's  humane  intentions  of  rewarding  your  courage 
with  one  of  those  pensions  which  he  will  muUifiy  on  the  Iruh 
establishment.  I  am,  &c. 

HODBBATOK. 


LETTER  VII. 

FOB  THE  PUBLIO  AOYBBTEBEB. 

October  22, 1707. 

Cfrand  Council  upon  the  Affairs  of  Ireland  after  eleven  Ad' 

joumments  * . 

Hill  Street,  7tli  October,  1767. 
FBESENT. 

Tilbury  . . .  fuddled  f. 

*  Thti  paper  was  announced  in  the  Public  Advertittr  in  the  feHowing 
words : — **  The  grand  oouncil  upon  the  afi^rs  of  IreUnd,  after  eleven  ad 
Joomments,  is  come  to  hand,  and  shall  have  a  place  in  our  next."  To  which 
was  added  by  the  printer  himself: — "  Our  friend  and  correspondent  C.  will 
always  find  the  utmost  attention  paid  to  his  &vour8."  C,  as  the  reader 
most  already  have  observed  from  the  Preliminary  Dissertation  and  Privslt 
Letters,  was  the  secret  mark  in  use  between  Junius  and  the  printer,  ts 
inform  each  other  of  the  identity  or  receipt  of  commnnieationa.  The  ptesenl 
•rticle,  however,  does  not  stand  in  need  of  this  accidental  proof  of  geamne- 
oess.  Its  internal  evidence  is  sufficient  without  it :  especially  the  iT 
cf  its  style,  and  the  peculiar  nature  of  its  political  bearing. 

i  The  Barl  of  Northington.  President  of  the  Conpeil' 


ANONYMOUS  8ATIBE.  129 

Judge  Jeflferyes  *. 
Caution  .    .  without  foresight  f. 
Malagridat. 

Boutdeville  . .  .  sulky  §. 
A  chair  left  emp^^j  for  the  High  Treasurer  ||,  detained  lif 
t  hurry  of  business  at  Newmarket. 

AjUr  a  convenient  time  spent  in  staring  at  one  another ^  nf 

gets  Tilbury, 

Thus  from  my  Lord  his  passion  broke/ 
He first,  and  then  he  spoke. 

Tilbury.  In  the  name  of  the  Devil  and  his  dam,  can  any- 
body tell  what  accident  brings  us  five  together? 

Caution.  For  my  own  part,  my  Lords,  I  humbly  appre- 
hend— though  I  speak  with  infinite  diffidence — I  say,  mj 
Lords,  I  will  not  pledge  myself  for  the  truth  of  my  opinion ; 
but  I  do  humbly  conceive,  with  great  submission,  that  we  are 
met  together  with  a  view,  and  in  order  to  consider  whether  it 
might  not  be  advisable  to  give  some  instructions  to  this  noble 
Lord  for  his  government  in  Ireland,  or  whether  we  should 
leave  the  direction  of  his  conduct  to  the  same  chance,  to 
which,  under  our  Sovereign  Laird  the  Earl  of  Bute  (they  all 
low  their  heads)  he  owes  his  appointment.  I  may  be  mis- 
caken,  my  Lords,  but  I — I — I—looks  round  him,  simpers,  and 
tits  down. 

Tilbury.  B — t  me  if  I  care  whether  he  has  any  instruQ' 
tions  or  not.     But  who  the  DeviVs  to  draw  them  up  ? 

Malaorida,  with  a  complacent  smile.  That's  a  task,  mj 
Lords,  which  I  believe  no  man  here  is  better  qualified  to 
execute  than  myself  Your  Lordships  well  know  that  1  am 
Celt  from  being  vain  of  my  talents ;  yet  I  believe  I  may  affirm 
without  presumption,  that  nature  has  done  more  for  me, 
without  any  effort  of  my  own,  than  other  men  usually  derive 
from  education  and  experience.  My  Lord  Holland,  who 
eertainly  had  some  reason  to  know  me,  has  done  me  the 
bonoar  to  say  that  I  was  born  a  Jesuit,  and  that  if  all  the 

*  Barl  Camden,  Lord  Chancellor. 
+  Mr.  Conway,  Northern  Secretary. 
X  Lord  Shelbume,  Southern  Secretary. 
§  Lord  Townshend,  Lord  Lieutenant  of  Ireland. 
1  Dttk«  of  Gfaffcon,  First  Lord  of  the  Treasury, 
▼OI.   U.  K 


130  MISCRLLANEOCS  LETTEBS  ASCBIBED    10  JUNIUS. 

good  qualities  which  make  the  society  of  Jesus  respectable 
were  banished  from  the  rest  of  the  earth,  they  would  still  fmd 
room  enough  in  the  bosom  of  Malagrida.  His  Lordship 
sagaciously  observed,  that  mine  was  a  sort  of  understanding 
more  united  with  the  heart  than  the  head ;  and  that  my  ideas 
of  men  and  things  depended  not  so  much  upon  the  improve- 
ment of  my  brain  as  upon  the  original  colour  and  consistence 
of  my  blood;  consequently — ^but  this  is  a  seducing  subject, 
upon  which  perhaps,  I  fear,  I  am  too  willing  to  expatiate. 
To  return  then  to  ihe  noble  Lord's  instructions.  '  I  should  be 
happy  to  know  what  your  Lordships'  ideas  are  upon  this  most 
important  question,  that,  when  I  have  heard  all  your  opinions, 
I  may  with  greater  decency  follow  my  own. 

Tilbury.  B — t  me  if  I  know  anything  of  the  matter. 
Falls  asleep. 

Caution.  The  very  learned  Lord  who  slumbers  upon  the 
sofa,  having,  with  his  usual  candour,  confessed  his  usual 
ignorance  upon  the  arduous  subject  of  our  present  debates, 
it  may  seem  presumptuous  in  a  man  of  my  inferior  qualifica- 
tions, even  to  form,  much  more  to  deliver,  any  opinion  upon 
it.  For  this  reason,  my  Lords,  although  I  venture  to  ^pieak 
first,  I  shall  take  care  not  to  hazard  anything  decisive.  I 
have  already  had  the  honour  of  giving  instructions  to  gover- 
nors ;  and,  excepting  my  noble  colleague,  with  whom  I  agree 
that  he  owes  as  much  to  nature  for  the  accomplishments  of 
his  mind  as  for  those  of  his  person,  I  believe  few  men  succeed 

better  at  the  ambiguous.     It  is  my  forte,  my  Lords; 1 

always  contrive  to  leave  the  person  I  instruct  at  full  liberty 
to  act  as  he  thinks  proper,  and  entirely  at  his  own  peril. 
Positive  instructions  axe  too  apt  to  endanger  the  safety  of 
those  who  give  them.  Mine  I  am  determined  shall  endanger 
nothing  but  the  safety  of  the  state.  But  since  the  noble  Lord 
absolutely  insists  upon  being  instructed  some  way  or  other, 
my  friendship  for  him,  which  he  may  believe  is  full  as  sincere 

as  what  I  felt  for  his  brother — poor  Charles *  and  art 

thou  gone! so  is  my  friendship; — I  say,  my  Lords,  since 

his  Lordship  can  havd  no  doubt  about  the  warmth  of  my 
friendship  for  him,  he  may  at  all  times  rely  upon  my  assis- 

*  Th^  Hon  Charles  Townihend,  Chancellor  Df  the  Extfaequer,  then  ktel| 
doad. 


ANONYMOUS  SATIBE.  131 

iance  and  concurrence,  and — and — ^it  is  unnecessary  1  believe 
to  explain  "what simpers  at  Sulky,  and  sits  dovm. 

Judge  Jeffebtbs,  with  dignity,  Mj  Lords,  your  Lord- 
ships know  that  the  greatest  part  of  my  life  has  been  dedicated 
to  ihe  study  of  the  common  and  statute  law  of  my  country ; — 
you  will  not  wonder,  therefore,  at  my  appearing  a  strenuous 
advocate  for  the  natural  liberties  of  mankind,  such  as  they 
possessed  them  before  the  existence  of  positive  laws  in  this 
country,  or  any  other.  Now,  my  Lords,  if  I  am  not  ill 
informed,  the  Irish  are  already  in  this  desirable  state  of 
emancipation.  By  the  most  authentic  accounts,  they  actually 
approach  as  near  to  a  state  of  nature  as  can  be  effected  by  the 
absence  of  all  legal  restraints ;  and,  for  my  own  part,  I  will 
speak  boldly  my  Lords — I  always  do  when  the  liberties  of  my 
fellow-subjects  are  in  question — I  never  consider  my  own 
character  in  what  I  say  either  in  council  or  Parliament — I 
think,  that  to  give  any  positive  instructions  to  a  chief  governor, 
might  have  the  odious  appearance  of  invading  the  natural 
rights  of  the  Irish.  It  is  their  claim,  it  is  their  birthright, 
my  Lords,  to  talk  without  meaning,  and  to  live  without  law. 
This  is  the  sort  of  liberty  which  our  ancestors  fought  for,  and 
which  every  true  Englishman  ought  to  revere.  ^  God  forbid, 
my  Lords,  that  anything  done  by  a  British  council  should 
tend  to  the  diminution  of  privileges  which  the  Irish  justly 
think  invaluable.  Besides,  my  Lords,  I  have  too  much 
respect  for  the  uncommon  talents  of  the  noble  Lord  himself 
to  wish  to  confine  him  by  any  opinions  of  ours.  Let  him  but 
follow  the  dictates  of  his  own  genius,  and  I  will  venture  to 
say  that  the  Irish  will  have  no  reason  to  envy  the  government 
of  t^ngland ; — at  least  he  may  be  assured  of  our  hearty  endea 
yours  afid  concurrence  to  prevent  any  ill  blood,  upon  that 
score,  between  the  two  nations. 

Sulky,  in  an  attitude  copied  from  Mr,  Sparks*,  1  was 
quiet  enough  at  Eaneham,  when  I  was  told  I  was  Lord  Lieu- 
tenant of  Ireland.  For  a  man  to  be  told  that  he  commands 
a  kingdom  or  an  army,  when  he  dreams  of  no  such  matter, 
forms  a  situation  too  difficult  for  such  .a  head  ap;  mine.  My 
Lords,  I  speak  from  experience.      Upon  another  occasion « 

*  A  comedian,  thus  characterized  in  Churchiirs  Bosciad  : 
**  Sparki  at  his  glass  sat  comfortably  down^ 
To  sep'iate  frown  from  smile,  and  smile  from  froiim." 

X  t 


^    I 


15^         MISCELLANEOUS  LETTEBS  ASCBIIIED  TO  JUKICW. 

indeed,  I  found  the  business  done  to  my  hand,  bj  a  person 
who  shall  be  nameless.  Bat  alas !  I  find  things  in  a  very 
different  condition  at  present.  I  perceive  that  I  am  no  more 
a  statesman  than  a  general,  and  diac  my  predecessor,  instead 
of  doing  anything  himself,  has  only  bequeathed  to  me  the 
disgrace  of  not  being  able  to  perform  what  be  was  so  vain  or 
so  simple  as  to  promise.  Then  to  be  left  to  my  own  gaidancet 
If  my  poor  dear  brother  had  liyed,  you  would  not  have 
treated  me  so  scurvily.  Surely  your  Lordships  forget  that 
these  are  a  wild  barbiuroas  people,  and  how  dangerous  it  is  to 
trust  to  their  respect  for  the  person  of  a  lord  lieutenant.  In 
short,  my  Lords,  if  you  do  not  think  proper  to  grant  them  a 
habeas  corpus^  at  least  grant  me  one,  and  as  soon  as  possible. 
I  Hhall  never  be  easy  until  I  find  my  body  once  more  before 
you.  In  the  meantime,  I  believe  I  had  best  follow  my  Lord 
Bute's  advice. 

Omnes.    Lord  Bute !  It  must  be  followed.    What  is  it? 

SuLKT.  To  carry  over  with  me  a  battalion  of  g^lant 
disinterested  Highlanders,  who,  if  there  should  be  any  dis- 
turbance, may  take  to  their  broad  swords.  Where  plunder's 
to  be  had,  they  11  take  to  anything.  I  have  seen  it  tried  with 
astonishing  success :  and  sure  never  was  a  man  in  such  a 
taking  as  I  was. 

Caution.  The  eaqpedient,  I  confess,  is  admirable;  but 
pray,  my  Lord,  how  do  you  intend  to  provide  for  all  these 
sweet-blooded  children? 

SuLKT.  My  secretary  has  got  a  list  of  the  employments  in 
Ireland,  and  assures  me  that  I  shall  be  able  to  provide  for  as 
many  more. 

Jeffebtes,  growing  peevish  and  impatient.  To  conclude, 
my  Lords.  If  what  I  have  just  now  had  the  honour  of 
throwing  out  should  not  be  consistent  with  the  noble  Lord's 
ideas,  or  with  his  plan  of  government,  he  has  my  free  consent 
to  adopt  a  very  different  system.  Instead  of  permitting  the 
Irish  to  live  without  any  law  whatever,  let  him  govern  them 
by  edicts  from  the  Castle.  For  my  own  part,  I  hate  medium 
in  government  I  am  all  for  anarchy,  or  all  for  tyranny. 
The  Irish  Privy  Council  are  as  good  judges  of  the  plea  of 
necessity,  and  I  dare  say  as  ready  to  make  use  of  it,  as  any 
other  council.  You  have  my  authority  and  example,  my  Lord,' 
in  support  cf  suspendii^  powers;  and  nrovided  you  are  a 


AMOMTMOUS   SATIRZ  133 

litt»e  cautious  in  the  object  of  your  first  experiment,  you  may 
carry  this  wholesome  maxim  to  as  great  a  length  in  Ireland 
as,  with  the  blessing  of  God  (turning  up  his  eyes  to  heaven), 
I  intend  to  do  here. 

A  dog  barks,  and  wakens  Tilbury,  who  starts  up. 

TiLBUBY.  Zounds,  my  Lord,  do  you  keep  bull-dogs  in 
your  house  ? 

Malagrida.  No,  my  Lord;  it  is  but  a  mongrel.  Your 
true  English  bull-dog  never  quits  his  hold ;  but  tMs  cur  plays 
fast  and  loose,  just  as  I  bid  him :  he  worries  a  man  one 
moment,  and  fawns  upon  him  the  next  *,  But,  my  Lords,  I 
hope  you  are  not  going  away  before  I  have  finished  my  speech. 
It  is  a  masterpiece,  111  promise  you,  and  has  cost  me  infinite 
labour  to  get  by  heart 

Ttlbury.  No,  damn  me,  'tis  a  little  too  late,  I  thank  you. 
Aside :  This  silly  puppy  takes  me  for  his  schoolmaster,  and 
fancies  I  am  obliged  to  hear  him  repeat  his  task  to  me.  Exit. 

Caution.  Pray  spare  me,  my  Lord ;  you  know  my  friend- 
ship :  I  would  stay  to  hear  you  if  it  were  possible.  Aside :  I 
Bee  this  will  never  do;  so  I'll  e'en  try  to  renew  with  the 
Hockinghams.     Exit,  talking  to  himself. 

Jeffertes.  Change  of  place,  my  Lord,  as  well  as  change 
of  party,  is  the  indefeasible  right  of  human  nature  f.  It  is  a 
pait  of  the  natural  liberty  of  man,  which  I  am  determined  to 
make  use  of  immediately.     Exit. 

Malagrioa  to  Sulky.    Won't  you  hear  me,  my  Lord  ? 

Sulky.  It  is  unnecessary,  my  dear  Lord.  I  see  your 
meaning  written  in  your  face.  Aside :  What  the  devil  shall 
I  do  now?  A  sick  man  might  as  well  expect  to  be  cured 
by  a  consultation  of  quack  doctors;  they  talk,  and  debate, 
and  wrangle,  and  the  patient  expires.  However,  I  shall  at 
least  have  the*  satisfaction  of  drawing  their  pictures.  I  be- 
lieve the  best  thing  I  can  do  will  be  to  consult  with  my  Lord 
George  Sackville.  His  character  is  known  and  respected  in 
Ireland  as  much  as  it  is  here ;  and  I  know  he  loves  to  be 
stationed  in  the  rear  as  well  as  myself.     Eodt. 

Malagbioa  sohu.  What  a  negro's  skin  must  I  have,  if 
this  shallow  fellow  could  see  my  meaning  in  my  face ! 

*  The  person  here  alluded  to  is  Colonel  Barr6. 

f  Lord  Camden  had  been  Chief  Justice  of  the  Common  Fleas,  was  no*« 
Chancellor,  and  was  afterwards  President  of  the  CounciL 


134  MISCELLANEOUS   LEITERS   ASCBIBED  TO  JXTNIUS. 

Now  will   I   skulk  away  to  ,  where  I  will  betray  ot 

misrepresent  every  syllable  I  have  heard,  ridicule  their 
persons,  blacken  their  characters,  and  fawn  upon  the  man 
who  hears  me,  until  I  have  an  opportunity  of  biting  eveo 
him  to  the  heart.     Exit  * 

*  A  writer  in  the  Pvhlic  Advertiser ,  in  a  pretended  real  account  of  what 
passed  at  the  council,  having  charged  Mr.  Burke  with  being  the  author  of 
this  satire,  and  as  the  letters  of  Junius  were  during  their  publication  attri- 
buted to  that  gentleman,  we  shall  extract  such  part  of  it  as  more  immediately 
relates  to  him. 

The  council  are  supposed  to  have  discussed  the  instructions  to  be  given  to 
the  Lord  Lieutenant,  and  the  Lord  President  is  then  made  to  address  them 
as  follows : 

President.  If  nothing  further  occurs  to  your  Excellency,  nor  to  you, 
my  Lords,  upon  the  present  business,  it  will  be  dme,  I  believe,  for  us  to 
break  up. 

{As  the  Council  are  rising  a  Secretary  enters.) 

Secrbtabt.  My  Lords,  there  is  a  person  without  who  says  he  has  busi- 
ness of  a  private  nature,  and  earnestly  desires  to  be  admitted. 

S.  S.  Do  you  know  who  the  man  is]  Are  you  acquainted  with  his 
person? 

Seobbtart.  I  am,  my  Lord  ,*  but  as  he  desires,  in  case  yoiur  Lordships 
do  not  think  fit  to  see  him,  that  his  visit  may  be  kept  a  secret,  I  beg  to  be 
excused  mentioning  his  name.  I  believe  he  is  personally  known  to  every 
one  present. 

Omnes.     Let  him  come  in. 
{The  Secretary  goes  out  and  returns,  introducing  a  taU,  ill-looking  fellow, 

in  a  shabby  black  coat) 

Lord  President.     What  are  your  Qommands  with  tis,  Mr.  Brazen  1 

Brazen.  The  business,  my  Lords,  that  has  brought  me  thus  unex- 
pectedly  into  your  company,  will,  I  am  persuaded,  excuse  the  unseasonable- 
ness  of  my  intrusion.  I  flatter  myself  I  am  known,  well  known,  to  every 
one  of  your  Lordships.  My  part  has  not  been  an  obscure  one :  I  may  say 
with  the  sublimest  of  all  poets, 

** Not  to  know  me"  &c. 

In  short,  my  Lords,  I  think  I  have  trod  the  public  stage  of  the  world 
with  some  degree  of  applause;  with  a  pen  that  can  blacken  the  whitest 
character,  and  a  tongue  that  can  dash  the  maturest  councils,  I  hold  myself 
equipped  at  all  points  for  the  offices  of  party.  One  in  particular  of  this 
right  honourable  company  can  bear  testimony  to  my  performances.  What 
need  of  more  words  ^ 

,    "  /  have  done  the  staie  soms  service,  and  they  know  iL" 

But,  my  Lords,  to  come  to  the  point  at  once.  No  man,  I  trust,  in  these 
times,  serves  the  etate  for  nothing;  yet  such  has  been  my  pride  or  folly 
(call  it  which  you  will),  that  I  have  got  nothing  for  my  pains  but  empty 
praise.  Now,  my  Lords,  this  diet  begins  to  grow  too  thin  for  my  stomach. 
X  must  own  I  expected  to  have  reaped  good  interest  for  my  self-denial,  bsC 


AKONTMOUS  SATIRE,  135 


LETTER  VIII. 

TO   THE   PRINTER  OF  THE   PUBLIO   ADVERTISER. 

Sib,  October  81, 1767. 

Your  correspondent,  who  has  furnished  you  with  what  he  calls  a 
true  account  of  a  grand  coundil  in  Hill  Street^  does  not  appear 
to  me  to  have  done  much  service  to  his  patrons.  The  former 
dialogue  had  at  least  some  pleasantry  (though  not  enough,  I 

things  haTe  not  come  round  as  I  looked  for;  the  revolutions  in  government 
iiave  not  kept  pace  with  those  that  have  been  made  in  my  fortune ;  and  the 
late  unproflperous  fatal  negotiation  has  broken  all  my  meiisures,  and  thrown 
me  at  length  upon  your  Lordships*  mercy,  the  hnroblest  of  your  petitioners. 

LoKD  Fbesidbnt.  Will  your  Lordships  have  the  patience  to  hear  this 
prating  fellow  any  longer) 

LoKD  Camden.  Mr.  Brazen,  you  will  please  to  contract  your  discourse  as 
much  as  the  matter  will  admit.  A  great  deal  that  you  have  now  been 
relating  to  us  might,  in  my  humble  opinion,  have  been  spared  without  any 
prejudice  to  your  petition  or  to  your  principles.  If  you  have  any  real  busi- 
ness worthy  being  communicated  to  Uiis  company,  we  shall  wish  you  to  let 
m  hear  it  without  further  prefisice. 

Bbazeh.  I  should  have  thought  that  your  Lordship  at  least,  in  the  course 
•f  your  high  office,  had  been  more  patient  under  utrcumloeution  than  to 
correct  me  for  the  little  I  have  now  made  use  of;  however,  not  to  incur  your 
displeasure,  I  will  come  at  once  to  the  point.  Tour  Lordships  see  these  two 
papers.  This  in  my  left  hand,  my  Lords,  contains  the  most  important 
intelligence  that  was  ever  directed  to  ministers.  It  is,  my  Lords,  the  whole 
scheme  and  plan  of  opposition  which  you  are  shortly  to  encounter,  concerted, 
modelled,  and  digested,  according  to  rules  logical,  metaphysical,  and  mathe- 
matical. It  is  the  most  beautiful,  as  well  as  the  suhlimestf  system  of 
politics  that  ever  sprung  from  the  brain  of  man.  I  am  here  ready  to 
eoDsign  it  over  to  your  Lordships  upon  the  terms  and  conditions  annexed  to 
it;  and  with  it  myself,  my  fedth,  my  friendship,  and  my  consdencs. 

Witness  that  here  logo  doth  give  up 
The  exeettUon  qf  his  to^U,  hands,  heart, 
To  this  great  Council's  service. 

(3^  Ufhole  qf  the  Council  rite  <U  once,  and  the  High  Treasurer  speaks,) 

HiOH  Trbasurbb.  My  Lords,  I  see  the  indignation  with  which  you 
ceeeive  this  proposal,  and  the  just  contempt  with  which  you  are  about  to 
treat  this  most  infamous  proponent.  But  I  beseech  you,  let  what  I  shall 
now  say  to  him  serve  for  his  dismission,  and  bold  him  unworthy  of  any 
further  reply.  We  reject  your  offsr,  Sir,  with  the  most  consummate  disjdain. 
Unfiuthfiil  to  your  own  puty,  we  scorn  to  admit  you  into  ours;  and  though* 
the  bounty  of  the  council  holds  forth  rewards  for  merit,  we  have  neither  the 
will  nor  the  means  to  bribe  and  seduce  a  villain.  Amongst  those  gentlemen 
whom  you  thus  offer  to  abandon,  there  are  many  for  whose  persons  aaiii 
chaiBcters  we  have  the  most  abjolute  regard.    Whatever  their  councils  nia| 


136  MISCELLANEOUS  LETTEBS   ASCBFRED  TO  JUITIUB. 

dare  say,  to  draw  a  smile  from  the  parties  concerned),  and 
perhaps,  in  marking  the  characters,  a  little  too  much  trath; 
But  this  sorrowful  ix>gue  is  too  dull  to  he  wittj,  and  as  for 
truth,  I  suppose  it  would  neither  suit  his  argument  nor  his 
disposition.  His  raillery  upon  a  shahhy  black  coat  is  indeed 
delicate  to  an  extreme ;  but  he  forgets  that  wit  and  abilities 
have  as  little  connection  with  rich  clothes  as  they  have  with 
great  places,  and  that  a  man  may  wear  a  fine  suit,  or  figure 
as  a  secretary  of  state,  without  a  single  grain  of  either.  But, 
Sir,  if  facts  asserted  are  notoriously  false,  the  assertion  of 
them  can  do  no  mischief;  if  notoriously  true,  they  are  beyond 
the  reach  of  his  wit,  if  he  had  any,  to  palliate,  or  of  his 
modesty,  which  I  think  is  upon  a  par  with  his  wit,  to  deny. 

Now,  Sir,  if  I  were  not  afraid  of  distressing  him  too  much, 
I  would  ask  him  whether  Lord  Townshend  did  not  openly 
complain,  only  three  days  before  his  departure,  that  he  could 
not,  by  the  warmest  solicitations,  prevail  on  the  ministry  to 
agree  upon  any  one  system  of  instructions  for  him ;  that  he 
was  left  entirely  to  himself;  and  that  the  ministry  could  not  be 
persuaded  to  pay  the  smallest  attention  either  to  his  situation 
or  to  that  of  the  country  he  was  sent  to  govern.     Did  he  not 

be,  and  boweyer  hostile  to  our  measures,  we  scorn  to  look  into  them  by  any 
indirect  means.  Friends  to  the  liberties  of  our  comntry,  and  protectors  of  its  % 
constitution,  we  wish  not  to  destroy  opposition  by  the  force  oi  cormption,  we 
seek  only  to  confute  it  by  the  preyalence  of  reason;  every  proposal  that  has 
the  public  welfare  for  its  object,  from  whatever  party  it  q>rings,  shall  have 
our  support;  and  while  we  have  truth  and  justice  on  our  side  we  have 
nothing  to  apprehend  from  opposition,  thoi^h  all  yowr  genius  and  (which  is 
more)  all  your  ill  nature  shall  be  drawn  forth  in  its  support. 

Brazen.  'Tis  very  well,  my  Lords;  'tis  mighty  well;  you  have  rejected 
the  olive  bmiich,  take  then  the  sword.  This  paper,  my  I^ords,  in  my  right 
hand,  holds  a  mine  that  shall  blow  yon  into  the  air.  It  is  a  libel  wrote  in 
gall.  Your  luresent  consultations  are  the  subject;  and  every  member  here 
present  shall  have  a  seat,  except  I  think  fit  to  dispatch  your  unimportant 
Grace  to  Newmarket  For  you,  my  Lord  President,  I  shall  characterise 
yon  under  the  name  of  Tilbury,  because  when  that  man  kept  an  inn  at 
Bagshot,  you  put  up  at  His  house.  To  my  Lord  Camden,  I  shall  bequeath 
the  odious  name  of  Jefferyes,  by  the  old  derivatory  rule  of  Luetu  a  non 
Incendo,  CauHon  vntkotU  /oresigAi  shall  be  your  title.  Sir;  and  your  noble 
colleague's,  Malagiida;  when  I  have  thought  of  any  reason  for  either,  I  may 
give  it  yoiL  To  your  Excelleney,  by  way  of  coatrast,  I  decree  the  name  af 
£<nttdelrille,  or  Salky. 

S.  S.  Here;  who  waits  there)  Take  this  fellow  and  put  him  out  of  tha 
houia. 

JExit  Brazek  between  iwoJi>«tt 


REPORT  OF  BURKE's  SPEECH.  137 

aay  tiiis  nr  thouj;  reserve  to  every  man  he  met,  even  in  public 
court,  and  with  all  possible  marks  of  resentment  and  disgust  ? 
I  would  advise  your  second  correspondent  not  to  deny  these 
known  facts ;  for  if  he  does,  I  will  assuredly  produce  some  proofs 
of  them  which  will  gall  his  patrons  a  little  more  than  any- 
thing, tbey  have  seen  already.  Let  one  of  them  only  recollect 
what  sort  of  conversation  very  lately  passed  between  him  and 
the  Lord  Lieutenant,  how  he  was  pressed,  and  how  he  evaded. 
But  the  facts,  of  which  the  public  are  already  possessed,  suf> 
ficiently  speak  for  themselves,  and  the  nation  vrants  no  further 
proof  of  the  weakness,  ignorance,  irresolution,  and  spirit  of 
discord,  which  reign  triumphant  in  this  illustrious  divan,  who 
have  dared  to  take  upon  them  the  conduct  of  an  empire. 

One  question  more,  and  I  have  done.  Did  it  become  him, 
who  has  undertaken  the  defence  of  a  whole  ministry,  to  for- 
get one  of  the  principal  characters  of  the  piece  ?  Why  should 
he  omit  the  dog  ?  This  mongrel,  that  barks,  and  bites,  and 
fawni^,  has  nevertheless  a  share  in  council,  and,  in  the  opinion 
of  tae  best  judges,  cuts  full  as  good  a  figure  in  it  as  his 
master. 

Here,  who  waits  there  t  —  O  charming  antithesis  !  O 
polished  language !  and  equally  fit  for  the  noble  Lord  who 
speaks,  or  for  the  footman  who  hears  it. 


LETTER  IX. 

TO   THE   PRINTER  OF  THE   PUBLIC   ADVEBTISEB. 

Mk.  Printer,  December  5, 1767.     < 

There  are  a  party  of  us  who,  for  our  amusement,  have  esta- 
blished a  kind  of  political  club.  We  mean  to  give  no  offence 
whatever  to  anybody  in  our  debates.  The  following  is  a 
mere  jeu  d' esprit ,  which  I  threw  out  at  one  of  our  late  meet- 
ings, and  is  at  your  service,  if  you  think  it  will  afford  the 
least  entertainment  to  your  readers*. 

I  am,  &o. 

T.  Z. 

*  As  the  debates  in  parliament  were  not  allowed  at  this  period  to  be 
given  verbativi,  they  were  uraally  detailed  to  the  public  under  the  gvisf 
of  fictitious  assemblies  and  opinions,  through  the  medium  of  imaginary 
ehnacfiflr*;  and  under   this   form   the  writer   undertakes   to  canyass  tK« 


238         MISGELTANEOUS   LETTERS   ASGBIBED   TO   JUNIUS 

Mr.  President.  The  condition  of  this  country  at  the  con- 
clusion of  the  last  spring  was  such  as  gave  us  strong  reason 
to  expect  that  not  a  single  moment  of  the  interval  hetween 
that  period  and  our  winter  meeting  would  he  lost  or  mis- 
employed. We  had  a  right  to  expect  that  gentlemen  who 
thought  themselves  equal  to  advise  ahout  the  government  of 
the  nation,  would,  during  this  period,  have  applied  all  theii 
attention,  and  exerted  all  their  efforts,  to  discover  some 
effectual  remedy  for  the  national  distress.    For  my  own  part, 

measure*  of  government,  on  the  opening  of  the  session  of  parliament  in  No* 
vember,  1767.  Whether  the  printer  was  aware  that  the  speech  here  de- 
tailed was  actually  spoken  by  Mr.  Burke  on  the  particular  occasion  to  which 
it  refers,  or  conceived  it  to  have  been  merely  fictitious,  is  uncertain.  Since 
the  former  edition  of  this  work,  however,  was  put  to  press,  a  gentleman  who 
still  thinks  Mr.  Burke  to  have  been  the  author  of  the  **  Letters  of  Junins," 
and  who  means  to  give  his  opinions  upon  this  subject  to  the  public',  has  dis- 
covered that  the  speech  is  genuine,  and  was  actually  delivered  ;  and  that  the 
words  commUUef  society^  ^lair,  &c.,  are  here  substituted  for  those  of  ad- 
minxttraJtUm,  house,  inajesty,  with  such  other  variations  as  are  necessary  to 
give  it  its  present  character.  A  passage  was  suppressed  in  the  original  publi- 
cation, which  has  now  been  added  in  a  note  to  p.  143.  That  this  speech  was 
sent  to  the  printer  of  the  P.  .^.  by  Junius,  will  appear  obvious  to  the  reader 
from  its  being  thus  announced  for  publication  :  "  C.'s  f&vour  is  come  to 
hand,  and  we  think  our  paper  much  honoured  by  his  correspondence.  He 
may  be  assured  we  shall  take  every  possible  means  to  deserve  a  continnanee 
of  it." 

The  severity  of  the  speech,  however,  whether  conceived  at  that  time 
to  be  genuine  or  fictitious,  is  so  pointed,  that  the  printer  wa^  half  afraid  to 
insert  it,  and  the  next  day  made  the  following  apology  for  its  non-appear- 
ance !  "  We  most  heartily  wish  to  oblige  our  valuable  correspondent  C.,  but 
his  last  favour  is  of  so  delicate  a  nature,  that  we  dare  not  insert  it, 
unless  we  are  permitted  to  make  such  changes  in  certain  expressions  as  may 
take  off  the  immediate  offence,  without  hurting  the  meaning." 

This  request  appears  to  have  been  complied  with ;  and  hence,  possibly, 
is  to  be  attributed  the  turn  given  to  the  speech,  as  it  appeared  in  the 
Pvhlic  Adveriiter. 

'  A  pamphlet  appeared  accordingly  in  1826,  to  prove  Burke  to  be  JuniaSy 
chiefly  on  account  of  this  speech.  But  the  writer  begs  the  entire  question, 
and  the  only  facts  that  he  proves  are,  that  Burke  spoke  the  speech ;  that  the 
speech  was  published  a  few  days  after,  as  above,  in  the  Pvblie  AdvertUer; 
and  that  a  corrected  version  of  it  was  published  by  Almon  in  1772.  But  he 
adduces  no  proof  that  Burke  was  C,  or  that  G.  might  not  be  Correggio  or 
ether  correspondent  of  Mr.  Woodfidl;  or  conversely,  Junius  might  be  C.» 
and  have  reported  the  speech,  acd  still  not  be  Burke.  A  remarkable  ImA 
about  the  speech  is,  that  it  was  the  first  of  Mr.  Burke's  orations  in  iiailiii' 
nent  that  has  been  preserved. — Bn. 


REPORT  OF  BURBe*S  oPEECE.  199 

I  had  no  doubt  that,  when  we  again  met,  the  committee  would 
have  been  ready  to  lay  before  us  some  plan  for  a  speedy  re- 
lief of  the  people,  founded  upon  such  certain  lights  and  in- 
formations as  they  alone  are  able  to  procure,  and  digested  with 
an  accuracy  proportioned  to  the  time  they  have  had  to  consider 
of  it.  But  if  these  were  our  expeotations,  if  these  were  the 
hopes  conceived  by  the  whole  sociMy,  how  grievously  are  we 
disappointed !  After  an  interval  of  so  many  months,  instead 
of  being  told  that  a  plan  is  formed,  or  that  measures  are 
taken,  or,  at  least,  that  materials  have  been  diligently  col 
lected,  upon  which  some  scheme  might  be  founded  for  pre-  f) 
serving  us  from  famine,  we  see  that  this  provident  cow^^ 
mittee,  these  careful  providers,  are  of  opinion,  they  have  ' 
sufficiently  acquitted  themselves  of  their  duty,  by  advising 
the  dKSS  to  recommend  the  matter  once  more  to  our  consi- 
deration, and  so  endeavouring  to  relieve  themselves  from  the 
burthen  and  censure  which  must  fall  somewhere  by  throw- 
ing it  upon  the  society.  God  knows  in  what  manner  they 
have  been  employed  for  these  four  months  past.  It  appears 
too  plainly  they  have  done  but  little  good ;  I  hope  they  have 
not  been  busied  in  doing  mischief;  and  though  they  have 
neglected  every  useful,  every  necessary  occupation,  I  hope 
their  leisure  has  not  been  spent  in  spreading  corruption 
through  the  people. 

Sir,  I  readily  assent  to  the  laborious  panegyric  which  the 
gentleman  upon  the  lower  bench  has  been  pleased  to  make 
on  a  very  able  member  of  the  committee,  whom  we  have 
lately  lost*.  No  man  had  a  higher  opinion  of  his  talents 
than  I  had;  but  as  to  his  having  conceived  any  plan  for 
remedying  the  general  distress  about  provisions  (as  the 
gentleman  would  have  us  understand],  I  see  many  reasons  for 
suspecting  that  it  could  never  have  been  the  case.  If  that 
gentleman  had  formed  such  a  plan,  or  if  he  had  collected  such 
materials  as  we  are  now  told  he  had,  I  think  it  is  impossible 
but  that,  in  the  course  of  so  many  months,  some  knowledge 
or  intimation  of  it  must  have  been  communicated  to  the 
ffentlemen  who  acted  with  h^m,  and  who  were  united  with 
nim  not  less  by  friendship  than  by  office.     He  was  not  a  re 

*  The  Bight  Honourable  Charles  Townshend,  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer, 
who  died  Sept  4, 1767,  and  was  succeeded  in  that  office  by  Lord  North,  th« 
Chief  Justice  of  the  King's  Bench,  haying,  in  virtue  of  hu  office,  held  tht 
•c«b  for  a  few  days  only. 


140         MISGELLiLafEOUS  LETTEBS  ASCRIBED  TO  JUNIUS. 

served  man,  and  surely,  Sir,  his  colleagues,  who  had  everjf 
opportunity  of  hearing  his  sentiments  in  the  committee,  in 
private  conversation,  and  in  this  society,  must  have  been 
strangely  inattentive  to  a  man  whom  they  so  much  admired, 
or  uncommonly  dull,  if  they  could  not  retain  the  smallest 
memory  of  his  opinions  on  matters  on  which  they  ought  natu- 
rally to  have  consulted  him  often.  If  he  had  even  drawn 
the  loosest  outlines  of  a  plan,  is  it  conceivable  that  all 
traces  of  it  should  be  so  soon  extinguished?  To  me,  Sir, 
such  an  absolute  oblivion  seems  wholly  incredible.  Tet,  ad- 
mitting the  fact  for  a  moment,  what  a  humiliating  confes- 
sion is  it  for  a  committee,  who  have  undertaken  to  advise 
about  the  conducting  of  an  empire,  to  declare  to  this  society, 
that  by  the  death  of  a  single  man,  all  projects  for  the  public 
good  are  at  an  end,  all  plans  are  lost,  and  that  this  loss  is 
irreparable,  since  there  is  not  a  leader  surviving  who  is  in 
any  measure  capable  of  filling  up  the  dreadful  vacuum  ! 

But  I  shall  quit  this  subject  for  the  present,  and  as  we  are 
to  consider  of  an  answer  in  return  to  the  advice  from  the 
chair,  I  beg  leave  to  mention  some  observations  occurring  to 
me  upon  the  advice  itself,  which  I  think  I  am  warranted,  by 
the  established  ]practice  of  this  society,  to  treat  merely  as  the 
advice  of  the  foreman  of  the  committee  *, 

*  The  following  are  the  passages  ia  the  King's  speech  more  immediately 
alluded  to  in  this  pretended  discussion  of  it : — 

"  Nothing  in  the  present  situation  of  affiurs  abroad  gives  me  reason  to  ap* 
prehend  that  yon  will  be  prevented  by  any  interruption  of  the  public  tran* 
quillity  from  fixing  your  whole  attention  upon  sucli  points  as  concern  the 
internal  welfare  and  prosperity  of  my  people. 

"Among  these  oojects  of  a  domestic  nature,  none  can  demand  a  more 
speedy,  or  more  serious  attention,  than  what  regards  the  high  priee  ol 
com,  which  neither  the  salutary  laws  passed  in  the  last  sessions  of  parlia- 
ment, nor  the  produce  of  the  late  harvest,  have  yet  been  able  so  fitr  to 
reduce  as  to  give  sufficient  relief  to  the  distresses  of  the  poorer  sort  of  my 
people.  Tour  late  residence  in  your  sevend  counties  must  have  enabled  yon 
to  judge  whether  any  further  provisions  can  be  made  conducive  to  the  at- 
tainment of  so  desirable  an  end. 

"  The  necessity  of  improving  the  present  general  tranquillity,  to  the  great 
purpose  of  maintaining  the  strength/*  the  reputation,  and  the  prosperity 
of  this  country,  ought  to  be  ever  before  your  eyes.  To  render  yonr  do- 
liberations  for  that  purpose  successful,  endeavour  to  cultivate  a  spirit  of 
harmony  among  yourselves.  My  concurrence  in  whatever  will  promote 
the  happiness  of  my  people,  you  may  always  depend  upon ;  and  in  that 
light  I  shall  be  desiroos  of  encouraging  union  among  all  those  wlio 
weU  to  their  oou^tc" 


BRPORT  OF  BUKKE'S  SPKEOH.  141 

The  chief  and  only  pretended  merit  of  the  present  advice 
is,  that  it  contains  no  extraordinary  matter,  taat  it  can  do  no 
harm,  and  consequently  that  an  answer  of  applause  upon  such 
advice  is  but  a  mere  compliment  to  the  chair,  from  which  no 
inconvenience  can  arise,  nor  consequence  be  drawn.  Kow, 
Sir,  supposing  this  to  be 'a  true  representation  of  the  advice, 
I  cannot  thmk  it  does  the  committee  any  great  honour, 
nor  can  I  agree  that  to  applaud  the  chair  for  such  advice 
would  be  attended  with  no  inconvenience.  Although  an 
answer  of  applause  may  not  enter  into  the  approbation  of  par- 
ticular measures,  yet  it  must  unavoidably  convey  a  general 
acknowledgment,  at  least,  that  things  are,  upon  the  whole, 
as  they  should  be,  and  that  we  are  satisfied  with  the  repre- 
sentation of  them  which  we  have  received  from  the  chair. 
But  this.  Sir,  I  am  sure  would  be  an  acknowledgment  incon- 
sistent with  truth,  and  inconsistent  with  our  own  interior  con- 
viction, unless  we  are  contented  to  accept  of  whatever  the 
committee  please  to  tell  us,  and  wilfully  shut  our  eyes  to  any 
other  species  of  evidence. 

As  to  the  harmlessness  of  the  advice,  I  must,  for  my  own 
part,  regret  the  times  when  advices  from  the  chair  deserved 
another  name  than  that  of  innocent;  when  they  contained 
some  real  and  effectual  information  to  this  society — some 
express  account  of  measures  already  taken,  or  some  positive 
plan  of  future  measures,  for  our  consideration.  Permit  me, 
Sir,  to  divide  the  present  advice  into  three  heads,  and  a  very 
little  attention  will  demonstrate  how  fax  it  is  from  aiming 
at  that  spirit  of  business  and  energy  which  formerly  animated 
the  advice  from  the  chair.  Tou  will  see,  under  this  division, 
that  the  small  portion  of  matter  contained  in  it  is  of  such  a 
nature,  and  so  stated,  as  to  preclude  all  possibility  or  necessity 
of  deliberation  in  this  place.  The  first  article  is,  that  every- 
thing is  quiet  abroad.  The  truth  of  this  assertion,  when  con- 
firmed by  an  inquiry,  which  I  hope  the  society  will  make  into 
it,  7duld  give  me  the  sincerest  satisfaction;  for  certainly 
there  never  was  a  time  when  the  distress  and  confusion  of 
the  interior  circumstances  of  this  nation  made  it  more  abso- 
lutely necessary  to  be  upon  secure  and  peaceable  terms  with 
our  neighbours.  But  I  am  a  little  inclined  to  suspect,  and 
indeed  it  is  an  opinion  too  generally  received,  that  this 
appearaiuse  of  good  imderstanding  wiUi  iir  neighbours  de* 


L4Q         MISCELLANEOUS  JJETTEBS  ASCRIB15D  TO  JUNIUS. 

serves  the  aame  of  stagnadoQ  rather  than  of  tranquillity; 
that  it  is  owing  not  so  much  to  the  success  of  our  negotiations 
abroad  as  to  the  absolute  and  entire  suspension  of  them  for  a 
▼erj  considerable  time.     Consuls,  envoys,  and  ambassadors,  it 
is  true,  have  been  regularly  appointed,  but,  instead  of  repair- 
ing to  their  stations,  have,  in  the*  most  scandalous  manner, 
loitered  at  home,  as  if  they  had  either  no  business  to  do,  or 
were  afraid  of  exposing  themselves  to  the   resentment  or 
derision  of  the  court  to  which  they  were  destined.   Thus  have 
all  our  negotiations  with  Portugal  *  been  conducted,  and  thus 
have  they  been  dropped.      Thus  hath  the  Manilla  ransom, 
that  once  favourite  theme,  that  perpetual  echo  with  some  gen- 
tlemen, been  consigned  to  oblivion.     The  slightest  remem- 
brance of  it  must  not  now  be  revived.    At  this  rate, ,  Sir, 
foreign  powers  may  well  permit  us  to  be  quiet ;  it  would  be 
equally  useless  and  unreasonable  in  them  to  interrupt  a  tran- 
quillity which  we  submit  to  purchase  upon  such  inglorious 
terms,  or  to  quarrel  with  an  humble  passive    government, 
which  hath  neither  spirit  to  assert  a  right  nor  to  resent  an 
injury.     In  the  distracted,  broken,  miserable  state  of  our 
interior  government,   our  enemies  find   a  consolation  and 
remedy  for  all  that  they  suffered  in  the  course  of  the  war,  and 
our  councils  amply  revenge  them  for  the  successes  of  our  arms. 
The  second  article  of  the  advice  contains  a  recommendation 
of  what  concerns  the  deamess  of  com,  to  our  immediate  and 
earnest  deliberation.     No  man.  Sir,  is  more  ready  than  my- 
self, as  an  individual,  to  shew  all  possible  deference  to  the 
respectable  authority  under  which  the  advice  from  the  chair  is 
delivered ;  but  as  a  member  of  this  society,  it  is  my  right, 
nay,  I  must  think  myself  bound  to  consider  it  as  the  advice 
of  the  foreman  of  the  committee ;  and,  upon  this  principle,  if 
I  would  understand  it  rightly,  or  «ven  do  justice  to  the  text, 
I  must  carry  the  foreman's  comment  along  with  me.     Bat 
what.  Sir,  has  been  the  comment  upon  the  recommendatioit 
made  to  us  from  the  chair?    Has  it  amounted  to  any  more 
than  a  positive  assurance  that  all  the  endeavours  of  the  oom- 
mittee  to  form  a  plan  for  relieving  the  poor  in  the  article  of 
provisions  have  proved  ineffectual  ?    That  they  neither  have 
ft  plan,  nor  materials  of  sufficient  information  to  lay  before 

*  The  worda  **  with  Portugal"  are  not  in  the  fenvine  speech. 


BBPOBT  OF  BUBKE'b  SPEECH.  1^3 

the  society,  and  that  the  object  itself  is,  in  their  apprehensions, 
absolutely  unattainable.  If  this  be  the  fact,  if  it  be  really 
true  that  the  foreman,  at  the  same  time  that  he  advises  the 
chair  to  recommend  a  matter  to  the  earnest  deliberation  of 
the  society,  confesses  in  his  comment  that  this  very  matter  is 
beyond  the  reach  of  this  society,  what  inference  must  we 
necessarily  draw  from  such  a  text,  and  from  such  an  illustra- 
tion ?  I  will  not  venture  to  determine  what  may  be  the  real 
motive  of  this  strange  conduct  and  inconsistent  language,  but 
I  will  boldly  pronounce  that  it  carries  with  it  a  most  odious 
appearance*.  ****** 

With  respect  to  the  third  and  last  head  into  which  the 

*  The  following  is  the  passage  suppressed  at  this  place,  and  intimated 
to  be  suppressed  by  the  asterisks.  It  is  extracted  from  the  genuine  speech 
of  Mr.  Burke,  as  given  in  Almon*s  DSbaUs  for  1767,  vol.  vr,  pp.  506,  507. 
Lond.  Ed.  1792. 

"  It  has  too  much  the  air  of  a  design  to  exculpate  the  crown,  and  the 
■ervants  of  the  crown,  at  the  expense  of  parliament.  The  gracious  re- 
commendation in  the  speech  will  soon  be  known  all  oyer  the  nation. 
The  comment  and  true  illustration  added  to  it  bj  one  of  the  ministry 
-will  probably  not  go  beyond  the  limits  of  these  walls.  What  then  must  be 
the  consequence  ?  The  hopes  of  the  people  will  be  raised.  They  of  course 
will  turn  their  eyes  upon  us,  as  if  our  endeavours  alone  were  wanting  to 
relieve  them  from  misery  and  famine,  and  to  restore  them  to  happiness  and 
plenty  i  and  at  last,  when  all  their  golden  expectations  are  disappointed, 
when  niey  find  that,  notwithstanding  the  earnest  recommendation  from  the 
crown,  parliament  has  taken  no  effectual  measures  for  their  relief,  the  whole 
weight  of  their  resentment  will  naturally  fiedl  upon  us  their  representatives^ 
We  need  not  doubt  but  the  effects  of  their  fury  will  be  answerable  to  the 
cause  of  it.  It  will  be  proportioned  to  the  high  recommending  authority, 
which  we  shall  seem  not  to  have  regarded ;  and  when  a  monarch's  voice 
cries  havock,  will  not  confusion,  riot,  and  rebellion  make  their  rapid  pro- 
gress through  the  land  1  The  unhappy  people,  groaning  under  the  severest 
distress,  deluded  by  vain  hopes  from  the  throne,  and  disappointed  of  re- 
lief from  the  legislature,  will,  in  their  despair,  either  set  all  law  and 
order  at  defiance,  or,  if  the  law  be  enforced  upon  them,  it  must  be  by 
the  bloody  assistance  of  a  military  hand.  We  have  already  had  a  melan- 
choly experience  of  the  use  of  such  assistance.  But  even  legal  punishments 
lose  all  appearance  of  justice  when  too  strictly  inflicted  on  men  compelled  by 
the  last  extremity  of  distress  to  incur  them.  We  have  been  told,  indeed, 
i:at  if  the  crown  had  taken  no  notice  of  the  distress  of  the  people,  such  an 
4missi&.i  would  have  driven  them  to  despair ;  but  I  am  sure,  Sir,  that  to 
fake  notice  of  it  in  this  manner,  to  acknowledge  the  evil,  and  to  declare  it  to 
he  without  remedy,  is  the  most  likely  way  to  drive  them  to  something 
beyond  despair,  to  madness;  and  against  whom  will  tbe^r  madaess  be  di- 
ncted  but  against  their  innocent  representatives  V 


144        HiSGELLAKEOnS  LETTERS  ASCRIBED  TO  JVHIOB. 

advice  may  be  divided,  I  readily  agree  that  there  is  a  cause  of 
discord  somewhere;  where  it  is  I  will  not  pretend  to  saj. 
That  it  does  exist  is  certain,  and  I  much  doubt  whether  it  la 
likelj  to  be  removed  by  any  measures  taken  by  the  present 
committee.  As  to  vague  and  general  recommendations  to  as 
to  maintain  unanimi^  amongst  us,  I  must  say  I  think  they 
are  become  of  late  years  too  flat  and  stale  to  bear  bein^ 
repeated :  that  such  are  the  kind  sentiments  and  wishes  of 
our  chairman,  I  am  far  from  doubting ;  but  when  I  consider 
it  as  the  language  of  the  foreman,  as  a  foreman's  recommend- 
ation, I  cannot  help  thinking  it  a  vain  and  idle  parade  of 
words  without  meaning.  Is  it  in  their  own  conduct  that  we 
are  to  look  for  an  example  of  this  boasted  union  ?  Shall  we 
discover  any  trace  of  it  in  their  broken  distracted  councils, 
their  public  disagreements  and  private  animosities  ?  Is  it  not 
notorious  that  they  only  subsist  by  creating  divisions  among 
others?  That  their  plan  is  to  separate  party  from  party, 
friend  from  friend,  brother  from  brother  ?  Is  not  their  veiy 
motto  Divide  et  impera  /  When  such  men  advise  us  to  unite* 
what  opinion  must  we  have  of  their  sincerity  ?  In  the  present 
instance,  however,  the  advice  is  particularly  farcical.  When 
we  are  told  that  afiBedrs  abroad  are  perfectly  quiet,  and  conse- 
quently that  it  is  unnecessary  for  us  to  take  any  notice  ol 
them ;  when  we  are  told  that  there  is  indeed  a  distress  at 
home,  but  beyond  the  reach  of  this  society's  councils  to 
remedy;  to  have  unanimity  recommended  us  in  the  same 
breath,  is,  in  my  opinion,  something  lower  than  ridiculous. 
If  the  two  first  propositions  be  true,  in  the  name  of  wonder, 
upon  what  are  we  to  debate  ?  Upon  what  is  it  possible  for  us 
to  disagree  ?  On  one  point  our  advice  is  not  wanted ;  on  the 
other  it  is  useless ;  but  it  seems  it  will  be  highly  agreeable  to 
the  committee  to  have  us  unite  in  approving  of  their  conduct; 
and  if  we  have  concord  enough  amongst  ourselves  to  keep  in 
unison  with  them  and  their  measures,  I  dare  say  that  all  the 
committee's  purposes,  aimed  at  by  the  recommendation,  will 
be  fully  answered,  and  entirely  to  their  satisfaction.  But 
this  is  a  sort  of  union  which  I  hope  never  will,  which  I  am 
satisfied  never  can,  prevail  in  a  free  society  like  ours.  While 
we  are  freemen,  we  may  disagree,  but  when  we  unite  upon 
the  terms  recomnended  to  us  by  the  committee,  we  most  be 
slaves. 


AMERICAN   STAMP   ACT.  145 

r.RTTER  X. 

TO  THE  PBIKTEB  OF  THE  PUBLIO  ADVERTISEB 

Sib,  December  19,  1767. 

Iv  there  be  any  man  in  this  country  who  thinks  that  the  com- 
bination lately  entered  into  at  Boston  is  merely  a  matter  of 
interior  economy,  by  which  we  are  either  not  essentially 
affected,  or  of  which  we  have  no  right  to  complain,  I  may 
safely  pronounce  that  that  man  knows  nothing  of  the  con- 
dition of  the  British  commerce,  nor  of  the  condition  of  the 
British  finances.  It  might  be  happy  for  us  if  we  were  all  in 
the  same  state  of  ignorance.  To  foresee  a  danger  when  every 
chance  of  avoiding  it  hath  been  wilfully  cut  off,  is  but  a  pain- 
ful and  useless  sagacity,  and  to  shut  our  eyes  to  inevitable 
ruin,  serves  at  least  to  keep  the  mind  a  little  longer  in  a 
thoughtless  security 

In  this  way  I  imagine  any  man  must  reason  who  is  in- 
sensible of  the  consequence  of  the  successive  enterprises  of 
the  colonies  against  Great  Britain,  or  who  beholds  them  with 
indifference.  I  will  not  suppose  that  the  bulk  of  the  British 
people  is  sunk  into  so  criminal  a  state  of  stupidity;  that 
there  does  exist  a  particular  set  of  men  base  and  treacherous 
enough  to  have  enlisted  under  the  banners  of  a  lunatic 'f',  to 
whom  they  sacrificed  their  honour,  their  conscience,  and  their 
country,  in  order  to  carry  a  point  of  party  and  to  gratify  a 
personal  rancour,  is  a  truth  too  melancholy  and  too  certain 
for  Great  Britain.  These  were  the  wretched  ministers  who 
served  at  the  altar,  whilst  the  high  priest  himself,  with  more 
than  frantic  fury,  offered  up  his  bleeding  country  a  victim  to 
America.  The  gratitude  of  the  colonies  shows  us  what  thanks 
are  due  to  such  men.  They  will  not  even  keep  measures 
viith  their  friends,  for  they  hate  the  traitors,  though  the 
treachery  hath  he&n  useful  to  them.  The  colonies  are  even 
eager  to  show  that  they  regard  the  interests  of  the  men  (who 
to  serve  them  gave  up  everything  that  men  ought  to  hold 
dear,  except  their  places)  as  little  as  they  do  the  interests  of 
their  mother  country,  and  will  not  comply  so  far  with  the 
promising  engagements  made  for  them  here  as  even  to  oou« 

*  Lord  Chatham. 


I 


1 46         UISGELLANEOnS  LETTEBS  ASCBIBED  TO  JUNIUS. 

ceal  their  malignant  intentions  until  their  friends  are  oat  of 
place.  Such  is  the  certain  effect  oi  conferring  henefits  upon 
an  American. 

Whatever  has  been  hitherto  the  delusion  of  the  public  upon 
this  subject,  I  fancy  we  are  by  this  time  completely  un- 
deceived. Our  gjood  friends  in  America  have  been  impatient 
to  relieve  us  from  all  our  mistakes  about  them  and  their 
loyalty,  and  if  we  do  not  open  our  eyes  now,  we  had  better 
shut  them  for  eter. 

It  would  be  to  no  purpose  at  present  to  renew  a  discussion 
of  the  merits  of  the  Stamp  Act,  though  I  am  convinced  that 
even  the  people  who  were  most  clamorous  against  it  either 
never  understood,  or  wilfully  misrepresented  every  part  of  it. 
But  it  is  tinily  astonishing  that  a  great  number  of  people  should 
have  so  little  foreseen  the  inevitable  consequence  of  repealing  it, 
and  particularly  that  the  trading  part  of  the  city  should  have 
conceived  that  a  compliance  which  acknowledged  the  rod  to  be  in 
the  hand  of  the  Americans,  could  ever  induce  them  to  sur- 
render it.  They  must  have  been  rather  weaker  than  our- 
selves if  they  ever  paid  their  debts,  when  they  saw  plainly 
that  by  withholding  them  they  kept  us  in  subjectiou.  In  the 
natural  course  of  things,  the  debtor  should  be  at  the  mercy  of 
his  creditor  rather  than  a  tyrant  over  him ;  but  it  seems  that 
for  these  three  years  past,  wherever  America  hath  been  con- 
cerned, every  argument  of  reason,  every  rule  of  law,  and 
every  claim  of  nature,  has  been  despised  or  reversed.  We 
have  not  even  a  tolerable  excuse  for  our  folly.  The  punish- 
ment has  followed  close  upon  it ;  and  that  it  must  be  so  was 
as  evident  to  common  sense,  as  probable  in  prospect,  as  it  is 
now  certain  in  experience.  There  was  indeed  one  man  who 
wisely  foresaw  every  circumstance  which  has  since  happened, 
and  who,  with  a  patriot's  spirit,  opposed  himself  to  the  torrent*. 
Be  told  us  that,  if  we  thought  the  loss  of  outstanding  debts 
and  of  our  American  trade  a  mischief  of  the  first  magnitude, 
such  an  injudicious  compliance  with  the  terms  dictated  by  the 
colonies,  was  the  way  to  make  it  sure  and  unavoidable,  it  was 
ne  moriare,  mori.  We  see  the  prophecy  verified  in  every  parti- 
cular, and  if  this  great  and  good  man  was  mistaken  in  any  one 
instance,  it  was,  perhaps,  that  he  did  not  expect  his  predifldons 
to  be  fulfilled  so  soon  as  they  have  been. 

*  Mr.  Greorge  Qreuville. 


AMBEICAN  STAMP  ACT.  147 

This  being  the  actual  state  of  things,  it  is  equally  vain  to 
attempt  to  conceal  our  situation  from  our  enemies,  as  it  is 
impossible  to  conceal  it  from  ourselves.  The  taxes  and  duties 
necessarily  laid  upon  trade,  in  order  to  pay  the  interest  of  a 
debt  of  one  hundred  and  thirty  millions,  are  so  heavy  that  our 
manufactures  no  longer  find  a  vent  in  foreign  markets.  We 
are  undersold  and  beaten  out  of  branches  of  trade  of  \7hich 
we  had  once  an  almost  exclusive  possession.  The  progress 
towards  a  total  loss  of  our  whole  foreign  trade  has  been  rapid ; 
the  consequence  of  it  must  be  fatal.  We  had  vainly  hoped 
that  an  exclusive  commerce  with  our  colonies  (in  whose  cause 
a  great  part  of  the  very  incumbrances  which  have  destroyed 
pur  foreign  trade  were  undertaken)  would  have  rewarded  us 
for  all  our  losses  and  expense,  and  have  made  up  any  defi- 
ciency in  the  revenue  of  our  customs.  We  had  a  right  to 
expect  this  exclusive  commerce  from  the  gratitude  of  the 
Americans,  from  their  relation  to  us  as  colonists,  and  from 
their  own  real  interest,  if  truly  understood.  But  unfortunately 
for  us,  some  vain,  pernicious  ideas  of  independence  and  sepa- 
rate dominion,  thrown  out  and  fomented  by  designing  seditious 
spirits  in  that  country,  and  encouraged  and  confirmed  here  by 
the  treachery  of  some  and  the  folly  of  others,  have  cut  off  all 
those  just  hopes,  those  well-founded  expectations.  While  we 
are  granting  bounties  upon  the  importation  of  American  com- 
modities, the  grateful  inhabitants  of  that  country  are  uniting 
in  an  absolute  prohibition  of  the  manufactures  of  Great 
Britain.  To  doubt  that  the  example  will  be  followed  by  the 
rest  of  the  colonies,  would  be  rejecting  every  evidence  which 
the  human  mind  is  capable  of  receiving.  To  be  mad  is  a 
misfortune,  but  to  rave  in  cold  blood  is  contemptible. 

The  enterprises  of  the  Americans  are  now  carried  to  such  a 
point  that  every  moment  we  lose  serves  only  to  accelerate 
our  perdition.  If  the  present  weak,  false,  and  pusillanimous 
administration  are  suffered  to  go  on  in  abetting  and  support- 
ing the  colonies  against  the  mother  country,  if  the  King  should 
take  no  notice  of  this  last  daring  attack  upon  our  commerce, 
the  only  consequence  will  be  that  the  contest,  instead  of  being 
undertaken  while  we  have  strength  to  support  it,  will  be 
reserved  not  for  our  posterity,  but  to  a  time  when  we  ourselves 
shall  have  surrendered  all  our  arms  to  the  people  with  whom 
we  are  to  contend — nor  will  that  period  be  distant. 

L  2 


148  MIBCELLANEOnS  LETTEB8    ASCBIBKl)   TO  JUNItm. 

If  the  combination  at  Boston  be  not  a  breach  of  my  stand- 
ing law  (which  I  belieye  it  is)  ought  it  not  to  be  immediately  de- 
clared so  by  an  act  of  the  legislature  ?  It  is  true  that  priyata 
persons  cannot  be  compelled  to  buy  or  sell  against  their  will ; 
out  unlawful  combinations,  supported  by  public  subscription 
and  public  engagements,  are,  and  ought  to  be,  subject  to  the 
heayiest  penalties  of  the  law.  I  shall  only  add,  that  it  is  the 
common  cause  of  this  nation,  and  that  a  vigorous  and  steadj 
ixertion  of  the  authority  of  Great  Britain  would  soon  awe  a 
tumultuous  people,  who  haye  grown  insolent  by  our  injudicious 
forbearance,  and  trampled  upon  us  because  we  submitted  te 
them* 


LETTER  XI. 

TO  THE  FBnrrEB  OF  THE  PUBLIC  ADTERTJSEB. 

Mb.  Woodtall,  December  22, 1767. 

YouB  correspondent  of  yesterday,  Mr.  Macaroni  f,  in  his 
tccount  of  the  new  ministerial  arrangements,  has  thrust  in  a 
laboured  bombast  panegyric  on  the  Earl  of  Chatham,  in  which 
ae  tells  us,  "  that  this  country  owes  more  to  him  than  it  can 
ever  repay."  Now,  Mr.  Woodfall,  I  entirely  agree  with  Mr. 
Macaroni  that  this  country  does  owe  more  to  Lord  Chatham 
than  it  ever  can  repay,  for  to  him  we  owe  the  greatest  part  of 
our  national  debt,  and  that  I  am  sure  we  never  can  repay.  I 
mean  no  offence  to  Mr.  Macaroni,  nor  any  of  your  gentlemen 
authors  who  are  so  kind  to  give  tu  citizens  an  early  peep 
behind  the  political  curtain,  but  I  cannot  bear  to  see  so  much 
incense  offered  to  an  Idol  1  who  so  little  deserves  it. 

I  am  yours,  &c. 

DOWNRIGHT. 

*  This  letter  was  without  a  rignatore,  and  could  not,  therefore,  be  an* 
nonnced,  but  was  thus  noticed  on  the  day  preyious  to  its  publication :  "  C's 
&vour  is  come  to  hand."  For  a  further  continuance  of  this  subject,  see  Mis> 
cellaneous  Letters,  Nos.  29  and  81. 

i*  This  writer  had  furnished  the  prints  with  a  list  of  the  supposed  changes 
in  administration. 

X  See  the  conclusion  of  Miscellaneous  Letter,  No.  4,  and  Prirate  Letter, 
No.  28,  in  which  the  same  term  is  applied  to  Lord  Chatham.  But  these 
inferences  of  Dr.  Good  are  negatived  by  the  knowledge  subsequently  ob- 
tained of  the  real  sentiments  of  Junius  in  respect  of  Lord  Chatham.  Other 
wise  Dtnmrigkt  if  short  and  pointed  enough  for  t^  Junius. — Sd. 


LOBD  GHATHAM  AS  PRIVY  SEAL.  140 

LETTER  XII. 

TO  THE   PBINTEB  OF  THE   PUBLIC   ADYEBTISEB. 

SiK,  February  16, 1768. 

A  MiNisTEB  who  in  this  country  is  determined  to  do  wrong 
vhould  not  only  be  a  man  of  abilities,  but  of  uncommon  courage. 
To  invade  the  rights,  or  to  insult  the  understanding  of  a 
nation  qualified  to  judge  well,  and  privileged  to  speak  freely, 
upon  public  measures,  requires  a  portion  of  audacity  unac* 
quainted  with  shame,  or  of  power  which  knows  no  control. 
Whether  it  be  owing  to  a  hardy  disposition,  or  to  the  conceit 
of  unlimited  power,  or  to  mere  stolid  ignorance,  I  know  not, 
but  it  is  too  apparent  that  the  present  ministry,  in  everything 
they  do,  or  attempt  to  do,  are  determined  to  set  the  under- 
standing and  the  spirit  of  the  English  people  at  defiance. 
In  a  succession  of  illegal  or  unconstitutional  acts,  the  instance 
of  to-day  ought  at  once  to  remind  us  of  what  they  have  done 
already  *,  and  to  alarm  us  against  what  they  may  attempt 
herea^r.  We  have  reason  to  thank  God  and  the  legislature 
that  some  of  the  most  flagitious  of  their  enterprises  have  been 
happily  defeated.  I  Their  endeavour  to  establish  a  suspending 
power  in  the  crbwii  met  with  all  the  contempt  it  deserved  f; 
nor  have  they  yet  quite  succeeded  in  emancipating  the  colonies 
from  the  authority  of  the  British  legislature.  But  when  open 
and  direct  attacks  upon  the  constitution  have  failed,  a  bad 
ministry  will  naturally  have  recourse  to  some  more  artful 
measures,  by  which  the  prerogative  of  the  crown  may  be 
extended,  and  the  purposes  of  arbitrary  power  answered  as 
effectually,  and  more  securely  to  themselves.  When  attempts 
if  this  insidious  nature  are  made,  it  is  the  duty  of  every 
lubject,  be  his  sijtuation  what  it  may,  to  point  out  the  danger  to 

*  Tbis  appettra  to  be  tbe  germ  of  the  after  amendment  in  the  Dedication 
(t.  l  p.  87),  on  tbe  duiger  of  bad  precedents ;  ^'what  yesterday  was  fiict,  to- 
day ia  doctrine.'*  But  this  does  not  prove  that  the  present  communication  is 
by  Junius,  as  he  may  have  either  improved  on  his  own  first  expression,  oi 
that  of  another.  Both  the  style  and  tenour  of  the  argument,  however, 
agree  well  with  Junius,  and  tha  dissatastaction  evinced  towards  Lord  Chatham 
further  on,  and  noticed  by  Dr.  Good,  is  not  inconsiUent  with  his  known 
sentiments  at  an  early  period. — Bn. 

t  See  this  subject  further  discussed  in  Junius^,  Letter  60,  voL  i.  p.  418. 


150  MISCELLANEOUS  LETTEB6  ASCRIBED  TO  JTJHIUS. 

his  c&uDtTymen.  and  warn  them  to  guard  against  it.  I  shall 
take  another  opportunity  to  inquire  into  the  legality  of  the 
appointment  of  a  third  secretary  of  state :  at  present  let  me 
he  permitted  to  rouse  the  attention  of  the  public  to  a  later 
and  to  a  still  more  flagrant  stretch  of  prerogative.  A  prosti- 
tution or  corruption  of  old  oflBces  may  he  as  fatal  to  the 
constitution  as  the  illegal  creation  of  new  ones.  In  the 
Gazette  of  Saturday  se'nnight  we  are  informed  that  the  privy 
seal  is  committed  to  the  care  of  three  persons,  whose  com- 
mission is  to  continue  six  weeks  *.  From  the  names  of  these 
persons  we  can  collect  nothing,  but  that  two  of  them  are  of 
Scottish  extraction,  and  that  the  third  is  recorder  of  St. 
Alhan's;  but  from  their  insignificance  and  obscurity  we  may 
easily  collect,  l^at  there  is  some  particular  design  in  fixing 
on  such  persons  to  execute  one  of  the  first  offices  of  the  state: 
Why  the  Earl  of  Chatham  should  continue  to  hold  an  em- 
ployment of  this  importance,  while  he  is  unable  to  perform 
the  duties  of  it,  is  at  least  a  curious  question  f.     But  it  is 

*  Whitehall,  Feb.  2.  The  King  has  been  pleased  to  issue  his  commiMion 
under  the  great  seal,  authorizing  and  empowering  Kichard  Sutton,  William 
Blair,  and  William  Frazer,  Esqrs.,  or  any  two  of  them,  to  execute  the  office 
of  Keeper  of  his  Majesty's  Privy  Seal,  for  and  during  the  space  and  term  of 
six  weeks,  determinable  nevertheless  at  his  Majesty's  pleasure ;  and  also  to 
grant,  during  his  Majesty's  pleasure,  to  the  right  honourable  William  Earl  oi 
Chatham,  the  said  office  of  Keeper  of  his  Majesty's  Privy  Seal,  from  and 
after  the  said  term  of  six  weeks,  or  other  sooner  determination  of  the  said 
commission^ 

i*  We  have  here  another  proof  of  the  hostility  of  Junius  at  one  period  to 
this  nobleman,  a  previous  proof  having  already  occurred  in  the  Miscellaneou 
Letter,  No.  1,  to  the  note  appended  to  which  we  refer  the  reader. 

In  the  Private  Letter,  No.  23,  dated  October  19,  1770,  he  still  insinnatet 
his  dislike ;  for  in  requesting  the  printer  of  the  Piiblie  Advertiser  to  contra- 
dict his  being  the  author  of  the  letters  subscribed  A  Whig  and  an  Englith' 
man,  he  adds,  "  I  neither  admire  the  writer  nor  hit  idol,**  Who  the  writer 
of  these  letters  was  we  know  not,  but  the  idol  was  certainly  Lord  Chatham. 

In  reality  it  was  not  till  about  the  date  of  Letter  54,  under  his  favourite 
signature  of  Junius,  that  he  began  to  think  commendably  of  this  nobleman. 
"  I  am  called  upon,''  says  he,  in  that  Letter,  "  i^  deliver  my  opinion,  lod 
rarely  it  is  not  in  the  little  censure  of  Mr.  Home  to  deter  me  from  doing 
signal  justice  to  a  man,  who,  I  con^ett,  has  grown  upon  my  esUwu**  ^ 


^  All  the  needful  elucidation  of  this  commentary  of  Mason  Good  wiU  b» 
found  in  notes,  pp.  108-110.  It  does  not  appear  from  any  writing  antlia»> 
tically  identified  with  Junius,  that  he  ever  ifi*,  a  strong  aTernon  trwaitif 
Lord  Chatham,  but  the  reTenaw — Eo. 


lOBD   CHATHAM   AF   tRIVT  SEAL.  151 

infinitely  more  material  to  inquire  why  the  interregnum  Is 
not  committed  to  people  of  a  higher  rank  and  character. 

The  establishment  of  the  several  high  offices  of  state  forma 
a  natural  and  constitutional  check  upon  the  prerogative  of  the 
crown.  No  illegal  or  unconstitutional  grant,  charter,  or  patent 
of  any  kind,  can  take  effect  from  the  mere  motion  of  the 
sovereign,  but  must  pass  through  a  number  of  offices,  in  each 
of  which  it  is  the  duty  of  the  officer,  if  the  case  requires  it, 
to  remonstrate  to  the  crown,  as  he  himself  is  answerable  for 
the  consequences  of  any  public  instrument  which  he  has 
suffered  to  pass  through  his  department.  The  delay  of  this 
progression  has  another  good  effect,  in  giving  the  subject 
time  and  opportttnity^  to  enter  his  protest  against  any  sudden 
or  inconsiderate  grant,  by  which  his  own  property,  or  the 
welfare  of  the  country  in  general,  may  be  affected,  and  to  have 
the  matter  fairly  discussed. 

The  precedence  annexed  to  these  high  offices  (exclusive  of 
the  importance  of  the  several  degrees  of  trust  reposed  in  them) 
sufficiently  proves  that  they  ought  to  be  confined  to  men  oif 
the  first  character  and  consequence.  Men  of  that  degree  may 
safely  be  trusted,  because  they  have  a  greater  stake  to  hazard, 
and  are  answerable  to  the  public  with  their  lives  and  fortunes. 
The  dignity  of  the  lord  privy  seal's  office  (next  in  rank  to  the 
president  of  the  council)  would  of  itself  be  a  sufficient  reason 
for  giving  it  to  none  but  men  of  birth  and  character,  and  the 
great  trust  annexed  to  that  dignity  is  a  further  reason  for 
never  committing  such  an  office  to  any  but  men  of  the  first 
rank  and  fortune.  But  in  the  choice  of  the  present  commis- 
sioners there  seems  to  be  something  particularly  and  singu- 
larly improper.  When  a  caveat  is  entered  against  a  grant 
from  the  crown,  and  when  a  question  of  political  and  commer- 
cial importance  is  therefore  to  be  discussed,  can  there  be  a 
higher  insult  to  the  public  than  to  commit  the  determination 
of  such  a  question  to  three  persons  very  low  in  point  of  rank, 
and  absolutely  dependent  in  point  of  situation  ?  Shall  we  not 
be  justified  in  supposing  that  they  are  elected  for  no  other 
quality  but  their  insignificance?  Whatever  pretences  may 
be  alleged  to  the  contrary,  the  public  will  have  too  much 
reason  to  suspect  that  these  worthy  commissioners  are  taught 
ttieir  lesson,  and  that  the  job  is  too  dirty  to  be  imposed  upon 
(^ntlemen  of  a  higher  station  than  a  clerk  in  office.     I  cannot 


162  MISCELLANEOUS   LETTEBS   ASCRIBED   TO  JUNITTS. 

believe  that  these  persons  could  have  been  chosen  by  the 
Earl  of  Chatham.  WJiatever  may  be  his  faults,  a  man  ol 
spirit  could  no  more  lend  his  office  than  he  could  his  mistress 
to  the  purposes  of  prostitution ;  much  less  would  he  descend 
to  take  eitlier  of  them  back  again  with  a  public  mark  of  infamy 
lapon  them  *. 

Now,  Sir,  let  us  suppose  these  three  respectable  persons 
seated  upon  their  tribunal,  with  two  judges  of  England  by 
their  side,  and  the  first  lawyers  of  this  country  pleading  before 
them  upon  a  question  of  the  first  importance  to  this  country ; 
the  judges,  I  doubt  not,  will  sit  in  silent  wonder  at  the  judi- 
cial abilities  of  these  great  men,  and  silent  they  must  be, 
unless  a  point  of  law  should  arise  on  which  the  triumvirate 
shall  deign  to  ask  their  opinion ;  the  lawyers  will  naturally 
exert  their  utmost-eflforts,  when  they  consider  that  they  have 
the  honour  to  plead  before  three  gentlemen  of  such  profound 
knowledge,  such  distinguished  rank,  and  such  inflexible 
probity,  that  neither  ignorance,  nor  ministerial  influence,  nor 
private  corruption,  can  have  any  share  in  their  decision. 

I  pity  the  unhappy  Englishman,  for  he  perhaps  may  blush 
for  his  situation. 

*  Lord  Chatham,  at  this  time,  was  suffering  from  severe  indisposition,  so  much 
so  that  he  was  unable  to  use  a  pen.  His  continuing  to  hold  the  privy  seal, 
while  its  duties  were  discharged  by  a  commission,  was  justified  by  the  earnest 
entreaty  of  the  King,  who  was  conscious  of  the  influence  of  his  name  in 
strengthening  the  ministry.  In  a  note,  dated  January  23,  1768,  addressed 
to  Lord  Chatham  by  George  IIL,  he  says  :-^ 

"I  am  thoroughly eonvinced  of  the  utility  you  are  to  mj  service,  for 
though  confined  to  your  house,  your  name  has  been  sufficient  to  enable  my 
administration  to  proceed.  I  therefore,  in  the  most  earnest  manner,  call  upon 
you  to  continue  in  your  employment ;  indeed  my  conduct  towards  you  since 
your  entering  into  my  service  gives  me  a  double  right  to  expect  this  of  jou, 
as  well  as  what  you  owe  your  country,  and  those  who  entered  into  my  serricc 
in  sonjunction  with  you." — Chatham  Correspondenee,  voL  iii.  p.  818. 

But  though  Junius  was  partial  to  Chathun,  he  was  not  so  to  some  of  hii 
ealleagues,  and  cautions  his  Lordship  against  their  underhand  prMtic«&  See 
Appendix*  Private  Letter  to  the  Earl,  dated  Janiuury  2, 1768. — Ssw 


MNEMON  TO  THE  PUBUO  ADTERTISKB.        153 


LETTER  XIII. 

TO  THE   FBINTEB  OF  THE  PUBUO   ADVEBTISKR. 

Febrouy  24, 1768. 

Fluctns  uti  primo  cespit  enm  albeseere  vento, 
Paullatim  sese  tollit  mare,  et  altios  undas, 
Erigit,  inde  imo  conrargit  ad  sethera  fiindo. 

YiBG.  En.  Til.  528. 

Sib, 
The  people  of.  England  are  by  nature  somewhat  phlegmatiQ 
This  complexional  character  is  extremely  striking,  when  con- 
trasted with  the  suddenness  and  vivacity  of  many  of  our 
neighbours  on  the  Continent.  It  even  appears  remarkable 
among  the  several  kindred  tribes  which  compose  the  great 
mass  of  the  British  Empire.  The  heat  of  the  Welch,  the 
impetuosity  of  the  Irish,  the  acrimony  of  the  Scotch,  and  the 
headlong  violence  of  the  Greolians,  are  national  temperaments 
very  different  from  that  of  the  native  genuine  English. 

This  slowness  of  feeling  is  in  some  respects  inconvenient; 
but,  on  the  whole  view  of  life,  it  has,  I  think,  the  advantage 
clearly  on  its  side.  Our  countrymen  derive  from  thence  a 
firmness,  an  uniformity,  and  a  perseverance  in  their  designs, 
which  enables  them  to  conquer  the  greatest  difficulties,  and 
to  arrive  at  the  ultimate  point  of  perfection  in  almost  every* 
thing  they  undertake. 

Their  slowness  to  passion  has  also  another  advantage.  No 
wise  man  will  lightly  venture  to  do  thera  a  real  injury. 
Their  anger  is  not  suddenly  kindled,  nor  easily  extinguished ; 
it  is  dark  and  gloomy ;  it  is  nourished  to  a  gigantic  size  and 
vigour,  under  a  silent  meditation  on  their  wrongs,  until  at 
last  it  arrives  at  such  a  mature  and  steady  vehemence  as 
becomes  terrible  indeed.  It  was  on  a  consideration  of  this 
kind  of  character  that  a  great  poet  says  with  a  singular  em 
phasis — "  Beware  the  fury  of  a  patient  man.*' 

It  is  surprising  how  much  this  character  is  exemplified  in 
every  part  of  our  history.  The  long  patience,  amounting 
almost  to  tameness,  with  which  the  people  of  England  have 
borne  thn  outrages  of  evil  ministers,  has  only  been  equalled 
uy  the  irresistible  force  by  which  they  attacked,  and  the 


154         MISCELLANEOnS   LETTEfiS  ASCRIBED   TO  JUNTTTS. 

» 

unrelenting  severity  with  which  they  finally  punished  the 
authors  of  their  great  grievances. 

I  wish  vrith  all  my  heart  that  our  time  may  furnish  no  such 
examples :  and  yet  I  confess  my  fears  are  excited  by  appear* 
ances  that  are  sufficiently  alarming.  The  people  of  England 
have  seen  an  administration  formed,  almost  avowedly,  under 
the  direction  of  a  dangerous,  because  private  and  unrespon- 
sible,  influence ;  and  at  the  same  time  with  an  outward  pre- 
sidency of  ministerial  despotism,  which  by  its  very  nature 
annihilated  all  public  council.  This  they  endured.  They 
saw  a  course  of  the  most  scandalous  and  corrupt  profusion  of 
public  money  that  ever  was  known  in  the  kingdom,  attended 
with  such  a  neglect  of  every  public  duty  as  if  an  experiment 
was  intended,  to  try  how  far  the  state  could  subsist  by  its  ovm 
strength,  without  any  of  the  usual  aids  of  active  government 
The  people  of  England  bore  this  likewise. 

They  saw  the  very  first  opportunity  laid  hol-d  on  to  revive 
the  doctrines  of  a  dispensing  power,  state  necessity,  arcana  of 
government,  and  all  that  clumsy  machinery  of  exploded  pre- 
rogative which  it  had  cost  our  ancestors  so  much  toil  and 
treasure,  and  blood,  to  break  to  pieces.  This  we  suffered 
with  our  usual  patience.  They  saw  an  attempt  made  to  render 
all  the  monied  property  of  the  kingdom  loose  and  insecure, 
and  to  turn  our  national  funds  from  being  supports  of  public 
credit  into  instruments  of  ministerial  power,  and  to  take  away 
that  dependence  upon  .law  which  had  been  in  all  ages  the 
great  source  of  our  domestic  happiness,  and  that  firm  reliance 
upon  public  faith  which  has  been  the  means  of  making  us 
respectable  to  all  the  world.  The  Englishman  still  continued 
sullen  and  silent. 

Those  very  circumstances  which  strike  terror  into  the 
heart  of  a  wise  man  are  often  such  as  inspire  fools  with 
confidence  and  presumption.  Having  had  sufficient  proof  as 
they  thought  of  the  passive  disposition  of  their  fellow-citizens, 
and  at  a  loss  for  precedents  of  despotism  of  a  modem  date  in 
any  civilized  country,  they  began  to  ransack  the  stores  of 
antiquated  oppression,  and  ventured  to  perpetrate  an  act  (by 
a  singular  composition)  of  such  consummate  audacity  and 
meanness  of  spirit  as  it  might  well  be  thought  impossible  to 
auite 


MNEMON  TO  THE  PUBLIC  ADTEBTI8EB.  155 

In  subservieDcy  to  the  odious  inflaence  under  ^hicb  they 
act,  this  administration  dared — ^to  an  informer  nearly  allied  to 
that  very  influence'!' ;  at  the  time,  and  for  the  purposes  of  an 
election ;  refusing  to  hear  counsel ;  not  daring  to  take  the 
opinion  of  the  King's  law  servants;  denying  access  to  the 
records  in  their  possession— to  pass  a  grant  of  the  estate  of  a 
noble  and  most  respectable  person,  derived  from  a  king  to 
whom  we  owe  all  our  liberties;  sixty-three  years  in  undis- 
puted possession,  the  subject  of  frequent  settlements,  and  now 
actually  a  part  of  the  jointure  of  the  noble  Duchess  f. 

The  people  of  England  at  length  began  to  break  silence. 
They  might  indeed  look  upon  the  private  wrong  as  a  mattet 
of  inward  meditation,  and  a  further  exercise  of  their  patience 
But  the  principle  of  this  grant  has  given  a  shock  to  the 

WHOLE  LANDED  PBOPERTY  OF  ENGLAND. 

Called  upon  by  this  practical  menace  to  all  landed  property, 
and  by  many  other  detached  grievances,  arising  from  the  same 
absurd  and  tyrannical  principle,  that  no  length  of  possession 
secures  against  a  claim  of  the  crovm,  one  of  the  ablest,  most 
virtuous,  and  most  temperate  men  in  the  kingdom,  supported 
by  a  steady  band  of  uniform  patriots,  has  made  an  attempt  in 
a  certain  great  assembly  (without  providing  any  remedy  for 
this  case  of  oppression),  to  secure  die  subject  at  least  for  the 
future  against  such  wild  and  indefinite  claims. 

Such  was  the  spirit  which  manifested  itself  upon  that 
occasion  that,  though  for  the  present,  after  a  glorious  struggle, 
they  have  felled,  there  is  no  sort  of  doubt  that  the  cry  of 
reason,  justice,  policy,  and  the  general  feeling  of  the  people, 
will  shortly  prevail  | ;  and  the  rather,  as  this  discussion  has 
brought  to  light  further  designs  of  the  most  extraordinary 
nature,  and  such  as  will,  if  not  timely  prevented,  spread 

*  The  informer  wa«  the  late  Barl  of  Lonsdale,  at  that  time  Sir  James 
Lowther,  who  had  married  a  daughter  of  Lord  Bute,  whose  infiuence  is  here 
alluded  to.  The  estate  belonged  to  the  Doke  of  Portiand.  See  Letter 
57,  Tol.  i.  p.  401,  and  note. 

i*  Duchess  of  Portland. 

^  By  a  bill  called  the  Quieting  Bill,  and  which  was  again  brought  forward 
by  Sir  G.  Savile  in  the  following  year,  and  carried.  But  see  the  subject 
further  elucidated,  and  the  final  determination  of  the  Court  of  Exchequer  on 
the  suit  pending  between  Sir  James  Lowther  and  the  Duke  of  Portland,  in 
the  note  to  Junini's  Letters,  No.  57>  vol.  i  p.  401. 


156         lOSCBTXANEOng  LETHEBS   AflCRIBEO  TO  JUNIUS. 

distraction  from  one  end  of  the  kingdom  to  the  other.     My 

next  will  he  on  that  important  subject. 

MNBMOK. 


LETTER  XIV. 

TO  THB  PBHrrEB  OF  THE   PUBLIC  ADYEBTISEB. 

March  i,  1768. 

"  Oh,  wretched  state  t    0  bosom  black  as  death  I 

0  limed  soul  that,  straggling  to  be  firee. 

Art  more  encaged  ! " 

Shaxspbabb. 
Sib, 
Innocence,  even  in  its  crudest  simplicity,  has  some  advan- 
tages over  ihe  most  dexterous  and  practised  guilt.  Equivocal 
appearances  may,  to  he  sure,  accidentally  attend  it  in  its  pro- 
gress through  the  world ;  hut  the  very  scrutiny  which  these 
appearances  will  excite,  operates  in  flavour  of  innocence ; 
wluch  is  secure  the  moment  it  is  discovered.  But  guilt  is 
a  poor  helpless  dependent  being.  Without  the  alliance  ol 
able,  diligent,  and,  let  me  add,  fortunate  fraud,  it  is  inevitably 
undone.  If  the  guilty  culprit  he  obstinately  silent,  his  silence 
forms  a  deadly  presumption  against  him.  If  he  speaks* 
talking  tends  to  discovery ;  and  his  very  defence  often  fur- 
nishes materials  towards  his  conviction. 

This  has  been  exactly  the  case  of  those  unhappy  men  (the 
ministry),  in  that  apology  for  their  conduct,  which  ^oy  choose 
to  complicate  with  their  opposition  to  the  settlement  of  the 
national  property.  Nobody  not  originally  acquainted  with 
the  bottom  of  their  proceedings  was  able  to  discern  the  true 
nature  and  full  extent  of  their  crime,  until  we  had  seen  upon 
what  principles  they  grounded  their  defence. 

It  is  worth  while  to  lay  this  aSair  a  little  more  open.  The 
maxim  of  Nullum  Temptu  occurtit  Regi  *,  that  no  length  of 
eonHnuancSf  or  good  faith  of  possession,  is  availahle  against  a 
Claim  of  the  eroum,  has  been  long  the  opprobrium  of  preroga- 
tive and  the  disgrace  of  our  law.    The  ablest  writers  in  that 

*  The  commencement  of  the  obsolete  law  which  in  this  case  was  appealed 
to  by  the  minister;  hence  called  the  Nullom  Tempns  Law. 


WNRMON  TO  THE   PUBLIC  ADTERTISEB.  157 

profession  have  ever  mentioned  it  with  abhorrence ;  the  besi 
judges  have  always  cast  an  odium  upon  it,  as  being  funda- 
mentally contrary  to  natural  equity  and  all  the  maxims  of  a 
free  government ;  and  a  superior  genius,  a  great  light  of  the 
age*,  has  not  long  since  endeavoured  to  give  it  as  great  a 
check  as  judicature*  unaided  by  legislative  powers,  is  able  to 
interpose. 

The  truth  is,  this  prerogative  has  hitherto  owed  its  existence 
principally  to  its  disuse.  It  was  an  engine  at  once  so  for- 
midable to  the  people  and  so  dangerous  to  those  who  should 
attempt  to  handle  it,  that  it  never  was  considered  amongst 
the  instruments  of  a  wise  minister.  It  remained,  like  an  old 
piece  of  cannon  I  have  heard  of  somewhere,  of  an  enormous 
size,  which  stood  upon  a  ruinous  bastion,  and  which  was 
seldom  or  never  fired,  for  fear  of  bringing  down  the  fortifi- 
cation for  whose  defence  it  was  intended. 

But  constituted  as  administration  is  at  present,  where  real 
power  is  invested  in  one  hand  and  responsible  office  placed  in 
another,  from  the  security  of  the  former  situation,  and  from 
the  servile  dependence  of  the  latter,  it  is  no  wonder  that 
hazardous  measures  should  be  commanded  without  fear,  and 
that  they  should  be  executed,  though  with  the  utmost  trepida- 
tion and  reluctance.  From  thence  arose  that  desperate  pro- 
ceeding which  has  given  such  an  univei'sal  alarm  to  property. 

Upon  the  first  attack  on  that  rotten  part  of  prerogative 
(out  of  whose  corruption  the  late  northern  grant  was  generated) 
the  ministers  found  themselves  entirely  at  a  loss.  To  defend 
their  Nullum  Tempus  upon  principles  of  liberty,  or  even  upon 
principles  of  justice,  was  a  thing  clearly  impossible.  To 
abandon  it  without  reflecting  on  their  past  conduct,  and 
without  giving  up  their  future  projects,  was  a  point  of  equal 
difficulty.  It  seems  that  they  h^d  hoarded  up  those  un- 
meaning powers  of  the  crown  as  a  grand  military  magazine, 
towards  the  breaking  the  fortunes  and  depressing  the  spirit 
of  the  nobility,  for  dra>ving  the  common  people  from  their 
reliance  on  the  natural  interests  of  the  country  to  an  imme- 
diate dependence  on  the  crown,  and  principally  for  enabling 
ninisters,  public  or  secret,  to  domineer  and  give  the  law  in 
all  fatore  elections.    They  thought  their  scheme  would  then 

*  Sir  George  Savile* 


158         MISCELLANEOUS  IETTEB8  ASCBIBED  TO  iXSKTOn 

he  complete  if  the  TOtes  of  freeholders,  the  veiy  means  which 
oar  ancestors  had  provided  as  the  great  security  to  our  free- 
dom, could  be  converted  into  the  most  certain  instruments  of 
the  public  servitude. 

It  was  evident  that,  when  thej  refused  to  give  up  this  bar- 
barous Tnaxim,  it  was  their  intention  to  make  some  sort  of  use 
of  it  Such  a  conclusion  could  not  in  any  way  be  evaded.  In 
this  strait  they  took  the  part  of  avowing  that  they  did  intend 
to  find  some  employment  for  their  favourite  prerogative,  which, 
after  so  long  a  trance,  they  had  thought  proper  to  disenchant 
and  to  set  in  action.  It  was  then  their  business  to  find  some 
excuse  for  themselves,  and  some  pretence  of  public  utility  for 
their  system. 

On  this  occasion  they  built  upon  two  grounds  very  well 
worthy  of  the  reader's  utmost  attention.  The  firs^  I  shall 
now  point  out ;  the  latter  and  most  important  would  trans- 
gress the  limits  of  your  paper.  It  shall  be  reserved  for  another 
opportunity. 

The  first  they  did  was  totally  to  disclaim  their  own  free 
agency.  In  the  highest  department  of  the  state,  they  declared 
themselves  to  be  mere  creatures  of  execution.  They  asserted 
that  they  were,  in  aU  matters  of  this  sort,  entirely  subservient 
to  an  officer  hitherto  little  heard  of,  but  from  henceforth  to 
be  a  name  of  dreadful  note  in  this  country,  the  subveyob 
OENEBAL.  It  is  their  system  that,  if  informers  (be  they  who 
they  may,  in  circumstances  of  indigence  to  make  any  des- 
perate attempt,  or  of  wealth  and  power  to  combat  the  great 
and  crush  the  poor)  can  contrive  to  obtain  the  surveyor's 
report  in  their  favour,  ministers  are  obUged,  without  further 
inquiry,  to  grant  to  them  patents  to  vex,  harass,  impoverish, 
possibly  to  ruin,  any  honest  proprietor  in  the  kingdom. 

It  is  true  that  they  supported  themselves  in  this  perverse 
doctrine  by  no  one  argument  from  law, '  usage,  or  common 
sense ;  but  it  is  their  system ;  and  it  is  mentioned  here,  not 
to  show  the  depth  of  their  understanding,  but  the  malignity 
of  their  designs ;  for  if  once  they  could  come  to  establish  this 
their  favourite  point,  things  would  stand  thus : — ^The  surveyor 
general,  who  keeps  all  the  crown  titles  (inaccessible  to  the  mi6* 
ject)j  has  a  hint  to  find  a  weak  part  in  some  old  possession — 
say  of  sixty,  say  of  two  hundred  years.  A  court /avourtt^  has 
a  hint  to  become  an  informer,  a  character  no  way  incompatibla 


XtfNKMON  TO  THE  PUBLIC  ADYEBTISEB.  159 

with  his  own ;  then  all  the  rest  fellows  of  course.  The  Lords 
of  the  Treasury  must  obey  the  informer  and  make  the  refer 
ence ;  the  surveyor  nvust  obey  the  Treasury  and  report ;  and 
then  the  Treasury  in  their  turn  must  obey  the  surveyor  and 
direct  the  grant.  The  whole  system  moves,  according  to  the 
preordained  laws  of  despotism,  in  a  circle  of  strict  necessity*. 

In  this  procedure  who  can  convict  the  surveyor  general 
of  corrupt  activity  or  obedience  ?  He  is  only  bound  to  prove 
that  the  lands  in  question  have  been,  in  some  former  age,  in 
the  hands  of  the  Grown.  This  is  not  difficult ;  all  the  lands 
of  the  kingdom  have  been  so.  It  is  his  duty,  according  to  the 
present  prerogative  doctrines,  not  to  discover,  or  to  sufifer  to 
be  discovered,  anything  which  may  tend  to  clear  and  settle  the 
right  of  the  subject.  He  may  have  that  in  his  office  which 
would  establish  the  very  title  he  attempts  to  overthrow ;  but 
fiEumess  in  his  situation  is  held  to  be  a  breach  of  trust,  because 
the  Crown  is  always  considered  by  these  gentlemen,  with 
respect  to  the  subject ^  as  an  adverse  party;  and  to  exist  in  a 
state  of  unremitting  and  immortal  litigation  with  the  people* 

Thus  a  mutual  obedience  and  a  common  impunity  is  esta- 
blished between  these  two  great  powers,  the  Treasury  and  the 
surveyor,  grounded  on  the  favourite  principle  of  necessity. 
The  only  free  agent  in  the  whole  transaction  is  the  informer; 
but  he  is  not  only  as  dispunishable  as  the  others,  but  is  highly 
meritorious  into  the  bargain,  for  discovering  what,  in  their 
prerogative  jargon,  is  called  a  conceabnent;  that  is  to  say,  in 

*  In  a  debate  which  took  place  in  the  Honse  of  Commons,  February  27, 
1771,  on  a  motion  made  by  Sir  William  Meredith,  to  repeal  a  clause  in  the 
Bill  of  Quiet,  which  passed  in  the  year  1768,  Lord  North  thus  defends  him 
■elf  from  the  grant  in  question  : — 

'*  The  honourable  gentleman  [Mr.  Cornwall,  afterwards  Speaker  of  the 
House  of  Commons]  has  reyived  in  my  memory  a  grant  which  passed  since 
I  had  the  honour  of  holding  the  seal  of  the  Exchequer,  and  which  seal  I  am 
proud  to  own  was  affixed  by  me  to  the  grant  in  question.  This  he  calls  an 
abominable  act ;  but  in  the  situation  I  then  was,  and  still  am,  I  thought 
myself  bound  to  pass  it  by  every  principle  of  duty  to  the  Crown,  as  the 
lenrant  of  the  Crown,  and  bound  still  more  strongly  by  that  duty  which  I 
owe  to  the  public  as  steward  of  the  public  estate,  as  far  as  it  is  entrusted  to 
me.  It  is  my  glory  that  I  passed  the  grant ;  and  as  often  as  mention  of  it 
is  made,  so  often  shall  I  think  that  honour  imputed  to  me."  Notwithstanding 
Lord  North's  boast  upon  the  occasion,  the  grant  was  ultimately  set  aside  by 
the  Goart  of  Exchequer,  on  the  ground  that  a  quit-rent  of  thirteen  and/<mf  • 
pta€i  was  not  an  sdequate  ikirdj^ri  of  its  clear  yearly  \alue. 


160  lOBCELLAinEOtTS  LETTEBS  ASCBIBED   TO  Jimitrs. 

plain  English,  the  ancient  possession  and  inheritance  of  a 
valuable  and  loyal  subject.  By  all  these  means  an  office  of 
in^idtion  is  establishid  in  the  true  inquisitorial  spirit,  and 
with  genuine  inquisitorial  powers,  over  all  the  landed  property 
of  England.  The  use  proposed  to  be  made  of  it  will  be  the 
subject  of  my  next  paper. 

In  the  mean  time  it  is  a  matter  of  very  serious  considenir 
lion  to  observe  the  growth  of  arbitrary  and  despotic  principles 
in  this  country.  There  is  such  a  pernicious  vigour  in  their 
vegetation,  and  such  a  rank  luxuriance  in  the  soil,  that  when 
they  seem  to  be  cut  up  even  by  the  roots,  they  will  suddenly 
shoot  up  in  some  other  place,  and  under  some  other  and 
perhaps  more  dangerous  appearance.  Suppress  them  under 
the  shape  of  general  warrarts  or  seizure  of  papers,  they  will 
start  up  in  the  form  of  dispensing  powers,  forfeiture  of  charters, 
violations  of  public  faith,  establishments  of  private  monopolies, 
and  raising  up  antiquated  titles  for  the  crown.  There  is  a 
consideration  still  more  melancholy:  that  many  persons*, 
apostatizing  from  their  principle,  betraying  their  associates, 
and  combining  with  their  adversaries,  make  no  other  use  of 
the  credit  they  have  derived  from  their  former  activity  in  the 
cause  if  freedom,  than  that  they  may  approach  it  without  sus 
pieion,  and  wound  it  beyond  all  possibility  of  cure. 

MNEMON. 


LETTER  XV. 

TO  THE   PBINTEB  OF  THE   PUBLIG  ADYEBTISEB. 

Maich  11, 1768. 
iHiat  aileth  thee,  Mnemon  1 
Why  art  thou  so  disquieted  % 
And  why  is  thy  understanding  troubled  ? 

Is  it  not  very  extraordinary,  Mr.  Printer,  that  the  parts  and 
abilities  of  Mnemon  should  be  prostituted  to  the  licentious 
abuse  of  the  highest  and  most  honourable  board  in  this  king 
dom,  composed  of  persons  of  the  most  unimpeached  characters, 
because  tJiey  have  dared  to  grant  some  crown  lands  to  Sir 
James  Lowther,  not  comprehended  in  that  of  King  Will'am 

*  Toe  Duke  of  Grafton. is  the  person  here  alluded  to. 


4NTC-9IUABT  TO  THE  PUBLIC   ADVEBTI8RB.  161 

Id  one  of  his  Dutch  imports,  but  usurped  and  illegaUj  with* 
held  by  them  ? 

Can  any  one  review  the  parliamentary  debates  of  that  sera» 
and  not  be  fired  at  the  glorious  spirit  exerted  by  the  Commons 
of  England  against  the  enormoos  grant  of  crown  lands  made 
to  the  Dutch  fayquiites  of  that  monarch  ? 

Was  not  the  most  scandalous  partiality  shown  to  them  in 
prejudice  to  the  people  of  this  country  ?  Were  not  honours 
and  riches  heaped  upon  them  with  unexampled  profusion  ? 

Whence,  in  the  name  of  God,  all  this  clamour  ?  What  is 
it  to  the  public  whether  a  Bentinck  or  a  Lowther  succeeds  ? 
Are  not  the  courts  of  law  open  to  determine  it  ?  Can  it  be  a 
subject  for  faction  or  a  pretext  for  abuse  ?  No,  Sir ;  be  as- 
sured the  arrows  wound  not ;  the  breast  draught  with  conscious 

worth  feels  not  the  shafts  of  enyy. 

ANTI  VAN  TBAaUB. 


LETTER  XVI. 

TO  THE   PRINTER  OF  THE   PUBLIC  ADVERTISER. 

Sib,  March  24, 1768. 

Your  correspondent,  Anti  van  Teague,  in  your  paper  of  Friday 
se'nnight,  has  undertaken  a  task  far,  I  am  afraid,  above  his 
abilities.     His  inclination  I  believe  to  be  very  good,  but  non 

tali  atixilio,  nee  de/ensoribus  istis Tempus  eget.    If  Nullum 

Tempus  and  the  late  most  extraordinary  and  alarming  use 
made  of  it  is  now  to  be  defended,  I  would  advise  that  most 
honourable  board,  composed  (as  Anti  van  Teague  says)  of  per- 
sons of  the  most  unimpeached  characters,  to  hire  abler  advo- 
cates for  its  defence.  Uncommon  parts  and  no  vulgar  eloquence 
are  required  to  subdue  the  fears  and  quiet  the  apprehensions 
of  all  the  landed  property  of  these  kingdoms.  When  that 
most  honourable  board  sbEdl  next  think  fit  to  bestow  another 
estate  upon  a  Lowther,  or  any  other  informer,  wonderful  no 
doubt  will  be  the  contented  acqmescence  of  the  person  robbed 
when,  he  is  assured  that  what  is  taken  from  him  to  gratify  the 
Scotch  favourite  of  to-day,  was  given  some  hundred  years  ago 
by  the  Crown  to  a  Dutch  favourite  of  that  time.  Surely,  Sir. 
the  noble  D'lke  who  is  the  present  sufferer  must  feel  great 

VOL.    It  M 


16'^  MISCELLANEOUS   LETTEBS    ASCBIBED  TO  JUKIUB. 

satisfactioD  in  finding  the  sins  of  bis  ancestors  visited  itpoK 
him.  A  Stuart  has  at  length  risen  up  to  avenge  upon  the 
memory  of  King  Williiim,  and  the  descendants  of  sdl  those 
who  embarked  with  him  in  the  once  glorious  cause,  the  in- 
juries and  sufferings  of  that  once  (but  now  no  longer)  hateful 
name. 

We  have  lived,  Sir,  to  see  an  advocate  for  the  ministry  of 
George  the  Third  defending  their  actions  and  justifying  their 
conduct  by  asserting,  not  that  their  actions  are  just  and  their 
conduct  clear,  but  that  their  injustice  falls  heavy  on  the  pos- 
terity alone  of  those  who,  by  their  arms  and  their  counsel, 
assisted  our  great  deliverer  to  effect  that  revolution  to  which,, 
and  which  alone,  we  owe  the  establishment  of  his  present 
Majesty's  most  illustrious  and  royal  family  on  the  throne  of 
these  kingdoms. 

What  Anti  van  Teague  means  by  unimpeached  characters  I 
cannot  readily  guess.  I  suppose  he  means  the  public  charac- 
ter of  the  ministers,  or  rather  of  the  minister*.  His  private 
character  I  do  not  meddle  with;  but  to  call  his  character 
unimpeached  who  is  not  only  charged  with,  but  to  the  sense 
of  every  impartial  person  convicted  of,  the  most  daring  and 
flagitious  attacks  upon  the  liberty  and  property  of  his  fellow- 
BuQects,  is  really  surprising. 

Is  the  revival  of  the  suspending  and  dispensing  powers  of 
the  Crown  an  experiment  of  curiosity  alone  ?  But  for  that  he 
has  in  the  most  solemn  manner  been  pardoned  by  an  act  of 
parliament,  and  therefore  probably  that  will  not  make  part  of 
his  impeachment.  Is  his  open  and  wicked  interference  in 
elections,  by  threats  and  bribery,  manifest  to  the  whole  nation 
(though  his  reverend  instrument  was  acquitted),  to  be  ac- 
counted no  more  than  a  good-natured  solicitude  for  his 
friends  ? 

Are  his  violent  attacks  upon  the  monied  and  landed  pro- 
perty of  the  people  nothing  more  than  dutiful  exertions  of  his 
power  to  pay  on  one  hand  the  debts  of  the  civil  list,  and  on 
the  other  hand  to  raise  support,  and  extend  that  hidden,  per- 
nicious, and  unconstitutional  influence,  in  which,  and  by  wMch, 
he  lives,  and  moves,  and  has  his  being? 

Is  his  lavish  and  wasteful  profusion  of  the  public  properlj 

•  The  Duke  of  Grafton. 


a  TO  THE  PUBLIC   ADTEBTISEB.  103 

io  pensions,  reversions,  grants,  and  monopolies,  a  decent  and 
becoming  reward  to  those  who  have  been,  or  are  willing  to  be^ 
his  tools  and  creatures  ? 

Is  his  activity  in  corruption  and  oppression,  and  his  perfect 
idleness  in,  and  neglect  of,  all  public  and  national  business,  a 
spirited  exertion  on  one  hand  and  a  needful  repose  on  the 
other? 

I  have<  you  see,  Sir,  not  meddled  with  his  private  character. 
I  leave  that  for  lum  to  earth  in  whenever  he  is  hard  run,  ac- 
cording to  the  laudable  example  of  his  Chancellor  of  the  Ex- 
chequer*. Let  him  resemble  the  great  demi-gods  of  antiquity, 
who  had  also  two  characters ;  and  whilst  one  half  of  them  was 
taken  up  to  heaven,  the  other  half  found  its  ^way  to  hell.  I 
shall  only  advise  Anti  van  Teagtie  to  recommend  it  to  his 
patron  not  to  trust  too  much  to  his  double  capacity,  lest,  at 
some  odd  turn,  he  may  find  his  private  person  so  involved  in 
his  public  character y  that  the  sharpest  axe  and  the  most  dex- 
terous operator  may  not  be  able  to  avenge  the  nation  upon  the 
last  without  doing  some  small  prejudice  to  the  first. 

I  am,  &c.. 
Not  yet  an  enemy  to  the  revolution, 

ANTI-STUART. 


LETTER  XVII. 

TO  THE   PBINTUB  OF  THE  FUBUO  ADYEBTISEB. 

April  6, 1768. 

*  YiTit  f  imi^  vero  etiam  in  senatum  venit :   fit  publici  consilii  particept 
notaty  et  limis  designat  oculis  ad  caedem  unumquemqtie  nostrum." 

GiCEBO  in  Caiiuham. 
Sib, 
The  return  of  Mr.  Wilkes  to  England,  and  the  measures  he 
has  since  pursued,  have  given  the  servants  of  the  Crown  an 
opportunity  of  acting  in  a  manner  so  becoming  themselves, 
that  it  would  be  ingratitude  not  to  take  notice  of  their  extra 
ordinary  merits  upon  this  occasion f.     Our  gracious  Sovereign 

•  Lord  North. 

t  The  return  of  Mr.  Wilkes  was  anything  but  agreeable  to  the  ministers ; 
t^y  had  repulsed  his  first  advances  (p.  109),  and  kept  him  at  Paris  by  a 
rote  of  £19000  per  annum,  raised  privately  among  themselves,     it  wc« 


164         MISCELLANEOUS  LETTEB8  ASCRIBED  TO  JUOTUS. 

undoubtedly  thinks  himself  highly  indebted  to  his  ministen 
for  their  uncommon  care  of  his  honour  and  dignity,  as  well  as 
for  their  attention  to  the  security  of  his  house,  family,  and 
sacred  person ;  and  I  may  venture  to  assure  them  that  the 
public  in  general  have  a  just  sense  of  the  vigour  and  spirit 
with  which  they  have  administered  the  laws,  and  with  which 
the  peaceable  part  of  his  Majesty's  subjects  have  been  pro- 
tected. What  sort  of  thanks  they  will  receive  from  their 
Sovereign  I  cannot  tell ;  but,  as  far  as  my  weak  endeavours 
can  reach,  the  nation  shall  not  remain  unapprised  of  the 
extent  and  species  of  our  obligations  to  them. 

A  man  of  a  most  infamous  character  in  private  life  ia 
indicted  for  a  libel  against  the  King's  person,  solemnly  tried 
by  his  peers  according  to  the  laws  of  the  land,  and  found 
guilty  "t".     To  avoid  the  sentence  due  to  his  crime  he  flies  to  a 


the  divulging  of  this  bargain  hj  Home  Tooke  that  originated  the  bitter 
quarrel  between  them.  But  Wilkes  was  tired  of  exile,  and  eager  to  avail 
himself  of  the  impending  dissolution  of  parliament.  Having  failed  on  the 
former  occasion  with  ministers,  he  resolved  on  this  to  try  their  royal  master, 
addressing  a  supplicatory  letter  to  the  King.  It  was  replete  ¥rith  loyalty 
and  devotion,  concluding  as  follows  : — 

**  With  a  heart  full  of  zeal  for  the  service  of  your  Majesty  and  my  country, 
I  implore,  Sire,  your  clemency.  My  only  hopes  of  pardon  are  founded  in 
the  great  goodness  and  benevolence  of  your  Majesty  ;  and  every  day's  free- 
dom you  may  be  graciously  pleased  to  permit  me  the  enjoyment  of  in  my 
dear  native  land  shall  give  proofs  of  my  zeal  and  attachment  to  your 
service." 

Of  course  he  received  no  answer ;  indeed  (Correspondence  of  Wilkes,  toL 
iii.  p.  265)  he  neglected  the  established  etiquette  in  the  mode  of  transmiasion, 
sending  his  application  by  a  common  footman  to  the  Queen's  palace,  in  lien 
of  conveying  it  by  the  medium  of  one  of  the  responsible  ministers  of  the 
Grown,  the  only  constitutional  channel  through  which  the  King  could  receive 
or  acknowledge  it. — Ed. 

*  It  has  already  appeared  in  several  instances  that  Junius,  subsequently 
to  the  present  date,  espoused  the  cause  of  Mr.  Wilkes,  or  rather  strenuously 
upheld  him  in  the. contest  with  the  ministry  upon  the  very  subject  advert^ 
to  in  this  letter.  Yet  the  political  conduct  of  Junius  was  perhaps  strictly 
and  unimpeachably  uniform.  He  had  at  first,  indeed,  conceived  a  personal 
dislike  to  Mr.  Wilkes,  in  consequence  of  his  strvnuous  resistance  to  the 
general  warrant  which  was  served  upon  him  during  the  administration  in 
which  Mr.  George  Grenville  was  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer,  for  whom, 
whether  in  office  or  out  of  office,  Junius  ever  manifested  the  strongest  partiality. 
But  in  the  present  instance,  Wilkes  is  only  adverted  to  as  an  insdrtmient  ol 
attack  upon  an  administration  which  Junius  abominated ;  and  as  soon  as  he 
ioimd  that  he  could  support  this  attack  better  by  enlisting  this  gentlenua  ii 


0.  TO  THR  PUBLIC    ADVEBTI8ER.  165 

JDfeign  country,  and,  failing  to  surrender  himself  to  justice,  is 
outlawed.  By.  this  outlawry  he  loses  all  claim  to  the  protec- 
tion of  those  magistrates  and  of  those  laws  to  which,  by  his 
evasion,  he  had  refused  to  be  amenable.  After  some  years 
spent  abroad,  this  man  returns  to  England  with  as  little  fear 
of  the  laws  which  he  had  violated  as  of  respect  for  the  great 
person  whom  he  had  wantonly  and  treasonably  attacked. 
Without  a  single  qualification,  either  moral  or  political,  and 
under  the  greatest  disability,  this  man  presumes  so  far  upon 
the  protection  of  the  populace  as  to  offer  himself  a  candidate 
to  represent  the  metropolis  of  the  kingdom.  Disappointed  in 
this  attempt,  notwithstanding  all  the  efforts  and  violence  of 
the  rabble,  he  has  still  llie  confidence  to  offer  himself  to  the 
freeholders  of  Middlesex  as  a  proper  person  to  represent  a 
county  in  which  he  has  not  a  single  foot  of  land ;  and,  to  com- 
plete the  whole,  we  see  a  man  overwhelmed  with  debts,  a 
convict  and  an  outlaw,  returned  to  serve  in  the  British  par- 
liament as  knight  of  a  shire.  These,  Sir,  are  the  main  facts 
of  Mr.  Wilkes's  case.-  The  circumstances  with  which  they  were 
attended  are  no  less  atrocious.  We  saw  the  other  candidates, 
gentlemen  of  large  fortune  and  of  the  most  respectable 
characters,  dragged  from  their  carriages,  and  hardly  escaping 
with  life  out  of  the  hands  of  Mr.  Wilkes's  friends  and  com- 
panions. If  the  candidates  were  treated  in  this  manner,  you 
may  imagine  what  sort  of  reception  their  friends  met  with  in 
attempting  to  poll  for  them.  The  fact  is  that  great  numbers 
were  driven  back  by  main  force  or  deterred  by  the  threats  of 
the  populace,  so  that  not  a  third  part  of  the  friends  of  Sir 
William  Proctor  and  Mr.  Cooke  were  ever  permitted  to 
approach  the  hustings.  The  conclusion  of  Monday  and  Tues 
day  night  was  perfectly  consistent  with  the  whole  proceediugs 
of  the  day.  I  need  not  enlarge  upon  this  detestable  scene, 
since  there  is  hardly  a  family  in  Loudon  or  Westminster  which 
has  not  had  reason  to  remember  the  day  of  Mr.  Wilkes's 

his  fitYonr  than  by  continuing  in   opposition  to  him,  he  shrewdly  took 
measures  for  such  a  purpose,  and  was  fortunate  enough  to  succeed. 

There  is  the  same  apparent  inconsistency  in  his  being  ultimately  the 
friend  of  Lord  Camden,  who  is  here  held  up  to  puhlic  odium,  and  to  Lord 
Chatham,  after  having  as  warmly  opposed  him.  But  his  change  of  opinion 
flODcemixig  these  noblemen  was  by  no  means  a  sudden  ^ight ;  it  grew  upon 
hip  slowly,  and  was  the  'esult  of  their  own  change  of  conduct. 


10(3  mSCELLANEOrS   LETTEKS  ascribed   to  JUNIUS. 

election.  The  metropolis  of  the  kingdom,  the  seat  of  justice, 
and  the  residence  of  the  Sovereign  and  of  the  royal  family, 
■vere  left,  for  two  nights  together,  at  the  mercy  of  a  licentious, 
drunken  rabble,  without  the  smallest  guard,  either  civil  or 
military,  to  secure  the  King's  person  or  to  protect  his  subjects. 
Amidst  all  the  horror  and  outrage  of  these  transactions,  is 
there  one  Englishman  endowed  with  the  smallest  portion  of 
reason  or  humanity,  who  can  hear  without  grief  and  resent- 
ment that,  even  in  some  of  the  royal  palaces,  to  avoid  worse 
consequences,  illuminations  were  made  to  celebrate  the  success 

of  a ,  who,  after  heaping  every  possible  insult  on  the 

person  of  his  sovereign,  returns  in  triumph  to  brave  and 
outrage  him  again,  even  in  the  place  of  his  immediate  resi 
dence ! 

Such  was  the  scene  of  which  all  the  inhabitants  of  London 
and  Westminster  were  witnesses  to  their  cost.  Let  us  now 
inquire  what  has  been  the  conduct  of  the  ministry  during  the 
course  of  it.  Long  before  Mr.  Wilkes  appeared  at  Guildhall, 
it  was  well  known  that  he  was  in  London ;  and,  if  any  measures 
had  been  taken  by  the  ministry  to  secure  him  in  consequence 
of  his  outlawry,  it  might  undoubtedly  have  been  done  with 
the  greatest  facility.  Why  no  process  was  sued  for  out  of  the 
Court  of  King's  Bench  let  the  ministers  answer  if  they  can. 
But  they  have  much  more  to  answer  for.  They  are  respon- 
sible for  all  the  consequences  of  permitting  this  outlaw  to 
appear  at  large,  and  for  all  the  violences  of  which  he  has 
since  been  the  author.  By  their  indolence  and  neglect,  or 
perhaps  in  consequence  of  a  secret  compact  with  him,  this 
man  has  been  suflFered  to  throw  the  metropolis  into  a  flame, 
to  offer  new  outrages  to  his  Sovereign,  and  at  last  to  force  bis 
way  into  parliament,  where,  if  he  were  a  man  of  any  parlia- 
mentary abilities,  I  doubt  not  but  he  would  reward  them  as 
they  deserve.  In  the  midst  of  all  this  tumult  and  confusion, 
the  Chancellor  of  Great  Britain*  and  the  first  Lord  of  the 
Treasury  f  retire  out  of  town,  and  leave  the  whole  executive 
power  of  the  crown  to  fall  to  the  ground.  In  the  name  of 
God  and  the  laws,  are  such  men  fit  to  govern  a  great  kingdom? 
To  say  that  they  are,  is  an  insult  to  the  common  understand- 
ing of  mankind,  and  I  hope  our  gracious  sovereign  will  do 

*  Lord  OtandeiL  f  The  Duke  of  Gmfton. 


Q  IN   THE   COSN£B  TO   THB   PUBLIC   ADVEBTISEB.        167 

justice  to  himself  and  to  his  people,  by  depriving  them  of  a 
power  which  they  have  either  not  courage  or  not  honesty 
enough  to  exert  in  his  service.  I  am  pursuaded  there  is  not 
a  man  of  property,  sense,  or  honour  in  this  country,  who  is  not 
ready,  heart  and  hand,  to  support  the  constitution,  and  to 
defend  the  sovereign,  though  his  own  immediate  servants 
have  deserted  him.  We  have  hitherto  taken  no  steps  for  our 
defence,  because  we  expected  the  protection  of  government ; 
but  we  are  still  strong  enough  to  defend  our  lives  and  proper- 
ties against  Mr.  Wilkes  and  his  banditti;  nor  shall  the 
treacherous  example  set  us  by  the  ministry,  ever  induce  us 

to  abandon  our  own  rights,  or  those  of  the  chief  magistrate. 

C*. 


LETTER  XVIII. 

TO   THE   PBINTEB  OF  THE   PUBLIC   ADVEBTISEB. 

Sir,  ^  Aprils,  1768. 

Thebe  is  something  so  extraordinary  in  the  conduct  of  the 
ministry,  with  respect  to  Mr.  Wilkes,  that  I  cannot  help 
suspecting  they  have  a  secret  motive  for  it,  which  the  public 
is  not  aware  of.  It  is  to  me  inconceivable  that  he  should 
have  been  suffered  to  return  to  England,  and  remain  at  large, 
notwithstanding  his  outlawry;  to  offer  himself  a  candidate 
for  the  metropolis ;  to  appear  the  leader  of  violence  and  riot 
uncontrolled;  and  at  last  to  succeed  in  his  enterprise  at 
Brentford;  unless  all  this  had  been  done  with  the  conniv- 
ance and  consent  of  the  King's  servants.  My  suspicions  may 
perhaps  be  ill  founded,  but  I  think  there  is  reason  enough 
to  apprehend  that  Mr.  Wilkes  would  never  have  been  per- 
mitted to  go  such  lengths  if  all  were  well  between  the  ministry 
and  the  Earl  of  Bute.  They  certainly  have  a  design  to  terrify 
the  Scotchman,  and  to  keep  him  in  order,  by  producing  their 
tiibune  once  more  upon  the  stage.  Let  the  Thane  look  to 
himself!  Mr.  Wilkes,  being  a  man  of  no  sort  of  consequence 
in  his  own  person,  can  never  be  supported  but  by  keeping  up 
the  cry,  and  this  cry  can  no  way  be  maintained  but  by  renew* 

*  The  editor  has  already  had  occagion  tu  observe  in  various  places  that  G. 
was  the  signature  adopted  by  Junius  in  his  prirate  correspondence  with  the 
printer  of  tb«  Public  Advertiur,    See  more  especialbr  the  private  letten  C« 


108  MlBCELLANEOnS  LETTEB8   A8GBIBED  TO  JUNICTS. 

ing  ms  attacks  upon  the  Scotch  favourite  and  his  coui itrymeD. 
With  this  ke/  we  may,  perhaps,  account  for  the  supineuesa 
and  indifference  with  which  the  ministry  have  seen  the  laws 
trampled  on,  and  the  puhlic  peace  and  tranquillity  destroyed, 
by  the  respectable  Mr  Wilkes,  and  his  no  less  respectable 
friends. 

Yours, 
q,  IN  THE  CORNBS. 


LETTER  XIX. 

TO  IHE   PRINTER  OF  THE   PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 

April  12,  1768. 
"  The  common  law  hath  so  admeasured  the  King's  prerogatiTes  that  they 
should  not  take  away  nor  prejudice  the  inheritance  of  any." 

Gokb's  Institutbs. 
Sib, 

The  extraordinary  purpose  to  which  an  old  maxim,  or  rather 
dictum,  of  the  common  law,  has  lately  been  applied  by  the 
commissioners  of  the  Treasury,  has  led  me  to  consider  upon 
what  principles  it  was  originally  founded,  and  whether  it  be 
applicable  to  the  present  circumstances  of  the  British  consti- 
tution. A  resumption  of  lands  held  under  a  supposed  grant 
from  the  crown,  after  a  possession  of  near  fourscore  years, 
was  an  alarming  measure  to  every  English  gentleman  of 
landed  property,  but  the  principle  on  which  it  was  defended 
was  formidable  enough  to  strike  a  terror  into  men  of  all  ranks 
who  had  either  estates  or  liberty  to  lose.  A  ministry  de- 
termined to  invade  the  liberties  or  property  of  the  subject, 
may,  in  our  law  books,  find  antiquated  maxims  to  support  the 
most  violent  stretches  of  prerogative;  and  if  it  be  admitted 
that  no  length  of  possession  is  good  against  the  crown,  I 
hardly  know  that  right  or  privilege,  much  less  any  tract  of 
soil  possessed  by  the  subject,  which  may  not  be  disputed  or 
resumed  at  the  pleasure  of  the  sovereign.  It  has  been  a 
fashion  with  some  writers  to  represent  the  feudal  government 
as  a  system  of  liberty ;  but  I  must  confess  that  a  constitution 
wherein  the  king  is  supposed  to  be  the  original  owner  of  all 
the  lands;  wherein  we  have  seen  the  nobility  at  perpetual 
war  with  the  sovereign,  and  bringing  their  vassals  into  the 
field  against  him,  or  against  one  another;  and  wherein  tba 
whole  bn^7  of  the  people  was  held  in  absolute  aepcndenoe 


0.   TO  THE   PUBLIC   ABVERTISJBK.  169 

upon  the  petty  tyrants,  does  not  present  to  me  the  'dea  of 
political  liberty  in  any  part  of  it.  The  greatest  commenda- 
tion it  deserves  is,  perhaps,  that  it  was  capable  of  improve- 
ment. Accordingly  it  has  been  so  altered  and  so  mended 
that  a  man  must  be  well  read  in  law  to  discover  any  trace  of 
it  in  the  present  form  of  our  government ;  and  I  am  justified 
by  modern  statutes  in  asserting,  that  we  never  thought  our 
constitution  completely  settled, upon  the  basis  of  freedom 
until  every  mark  of  feudal  services  and  dependence  was 
abolished  by  parliament. 

But  though  great  improvements  have  been  made,  there 
remains  yet  a  great  deal  to  be  done;  and  if  the  crown  be 
permitted  to  recur  to  maxims  of  law  which  prevailed  when  a 
system  of  government  subsisted  very  different  from  the 
present,  the  most  arbitrary  measures  may  still  pass  for  a 
legal  exertion  of  the  royal  prerogative.  I  am  still  the  king's 
liege  man,  and  may  be  sent  from  one  part  of  the  country  to 
the  other,  from  the  care  of  my  family  and  affairs,  and  perhaps 
in  my  absence  a  mdlum  tempm  may  deprive  me  of  my  estate. 
The  argument  alleged  by  lawyers  in  favour  of  their  own  rule, 
that  no  delay  shall  bar  the  king's  right,  (viz.  "  because  the 
law  intends  that  the  king  is  always  busied  for  the  public  good, 
therefore  has  not  leisure  to  assert  his  right  within  the  times 
limited  to  subjects,")  will  hardly  bear  a  strict  examination, 
especially  if  referred  to  the  present  establishment.  Either  it 
is  not  well  founded  in  fact,  or  the  reasoning  on  which  it 
depends  will  prove  too  much.  It  is  not  true  at  this  day,  and 
I  doubt  whether  it  ever  were  true,  that  the  law  (which  is  the 
solemn  sense  and  opinion  of  the  people)  supposes  the  king  so 
continually  employed  about  public  affairs  as  to  be  entitled 
to  an  extraordinary  indulgence  in  the  neglect  of  those  precau- 
tions which  concern  the  private  interests  of  the  crown.  If» 
indeed,  the  king  were  supposed  to  transact  and  govern  the 
affairs  of  the  kingdom  in  his  own  person ;  or  if  he  had  not  a 
number  of  officers  whose  duty  it  is  to  take  care  of  and  transact 
every  business  relative  to  his  private  rights,  and  private  pro- 
perty, an  indulgence  of  this  nature  to  a  chief  magistrate,  so 
much  employed,  and  so  little  assisted,  might  not  be  thought 
very  unreasonable.  But  when,  on  the  one  hand,  the  ministers 
of  the  crown  are  alone  responsible  for  the  conduct  of  public 
affairs  j  and  when,  on  the  other,  it  is  the  business  of  the 
treasury,  of  the  exchequer,  of  the  land  surveyors,  and  of  6 


170  MTSCEIJi.VNEOUS    LETTERS   ASCRIBED   TO  .TU^^rtJg. 

multitude  of  other  officers  to  oversee  aud  manage  the  revenues 
and  distribution  of  the  crown  lands,  I  hold  it  to  be  highly  uncon- 
stitutional, as  well  as  absurd,  to  introduce  the  person  of  the 
sovereign  as  claiming  an  indulgence  to  himself  for  neglects 
which  are  properly  the  neglects  of  his  servants.  But  admit- 
ting the  excuse  of  public  employment  for  private  negligence 
to  be  valid,  let  us  see  how  far  it  will  reach.  If  the  sovereign, 
on  account  of  his  high  occupations,  be  entitled  to  such  a 
privilege,  his  ministers  certainly  have  a  claim  to  their  share 
of  it.  The  lords,  who  are  hereditary  counsellors  of  the  crown; 
the  judges ;  every  member  of  the  House  of  Commons ;  and 
ambassadors  sent  abroad,  may  all  plead  public  employment; 
nor  can  there  be  any  good  reason  alleged  why  every  officer 
engaged  in  the  public  service,  from  the  high  chancellor  down 
to  the  bum-bailiff,  should  not  be  allowed  his  proportion  of 
nullum  teinpus,  according  to  theif  several  ranks,  and  the  time 
they  continue  in  employment.  But  it  were  endless  to  refute 
arguments  which  have  neither  truth  nor  meaning. 

The  maxim,  that  nullum  tempus  occurrit  regi,  if  ever,  could 
only  be  true  under  the  feudal  government  *.  It  was  then  a 
national  interest  to  preserve  the  royal  demesne  entire,  because 
the  support  of  the  royal  dignity  depended  upon  it.  The  king, 
out  of  this  revenue,  defrayed  the  expense  of  his  family  and 
government,  and  never  applied  for  aids  to  the  people  but 
upon  pretence  of  extrswrdinary  emergencies.  By  preserving 
this  separate  property  to  the  king,  the  people  in  effect  pre- 
served their  own,  and  therefore  admitted  without  reluctance 
a  maxim  introduced  by  the  lawyers  of  the  crown,  since  it 
tended  to  deter  individuals  from  invading  a  branch  of  royal 
revenue,  any  deficiency  in  which  must  have  been  made  good 
out  of  the  public  stock.  Nothing  less  than  a  reason  of  this 
public  nature  could  have  procured  submission  to  a  doctrine 
full  of  hardship  and  oppression  to  the  subject,  and  which,  in 
favour  of  the  crown,  directly  contradicted  those  rules  of 
oommon  law  hy  which  the  possession  of  property  between 
man  and  man  was  secured. 

*  The  reasoning  of  this  writer  on  the  feudal  consequences  of  the  old  laiir 
maxim,  that  no  **  delay  will  bar  the  right  of  the  Crown,"  is  ingenious,  but  has 
cased  to  be  of  legal  force.  In  civil  actions,  relating  even  to  landed  property, 
the  Queen,  like  a  subject,  is  limited  to  sixty  years ;  and  after  tifty-fiv« 
vears'  possession  a  grant  from  the  Crown  may  be  presumed,  unless  a  statrw 
bas  prohibitwl  such  a  grant — Bi>. 


0.   TO   THE   PtJBUO   ADVEBTI8BB.  171 

To  revive  and  enforce  a  maxim  of  this  sort,  when  not  one 
of  the  reasons  subsist  on  which  it  was  originally  founded, 
when  the  king's  family  and  government  are  support'id  by  a 
fixed  revenue  of  eight  hundred  thousand  pounds  raised  upon 
the  people,  is  certainly  a  most  unwarrantable  and  a  most 
dangerous  attempt.  Under  the  present  board  of  treasury, 
the  reign  of  Empson  and  Dudley  seems  to  flourish  again ; 
and  where  is  the  man  who  can  say  his  liberty  or  his  property 
is  secure  to  him  if  antiquated  doctrines  and  obsolete  lawd 
may  be  brought  to  life  at  die  breath  of  a  young,  inconsiderate, 
arbitrary  minister,  and  sent  abroad  to  attack  every  subject 
whom  he  shall  think  proper  to  call  an  enemy  to  government? 
A  minister  capable  of  recommending  such  measures  to  the 
crown,  calls  to  my  mind  the  idea  which  our  ancestors  had  of 
some  black  magician  conjuring  up  infernal  spirits  from  the 
depths  of  the  earth  and  of  the  sea,  and  letting  them  loose  to 
the  destruction  of  mankind.  Delusions  of  this  sort  have 
indeed  been  long  since  exploded ;  but  there  are  other  diabo- 
lical arts,  which  certainly  do  exist,  which  ministers  practise 
but  which  I  hope  will  be  as  little  able  to  maintain  themselves 
against  the  improved  understanding  and  well-directed  firm- 
ness of  the  English  nation  *. 

a 


LETTER  XX. 

For  the  Public  Advertiser,      .    .,  «•  ^  .^^^ 

April  28,  1769. 

TO  HIS   GRACE   THE    DUKE   OF   GRAFTON  f. 

Is  it  enough  that  Abra  should  be  great 
In  the  waird  palace  or  the  rural  seat  ? 
Oh,  no  I  Jerusalem  combined  must  see 
My  open  shame  and  boasted  infiuny. 
Ht  Lokd, 

Permit  me  to  congratulate  your  Grace  upon  a  piece  of  good 

^  This  may  or  may  not  be  a  letter  of  Junius ;  but  the  general  tenour  of 
*ts  reasoning  is  congenial  to  him.  He  might  be  opposed  to  the  ministry,  and 
yet  not  to  Lord  Chatham;  although  Lord  Chatham  was  the  chief  cause  of 
ministerial  weakness,  his  continued  indisposition  preventing  his  acting  effi- 
ciently in  its  direction. — Ed. 

f  This  may  e  a  letter  of  Junius,  but  not  in  his  best  style ;  it  is  redoiant 
of  his  sympa  h  es  and  aversions,  and  its  malhiel  was  often  re-dressed  with 
augmented  piquancy. — Eo. 


17$i         MISCeLLANEOUS   LF.TTBB8   ASCRIBED   TO  JUNlXnS. 

fortuno  which  few  men,  of  the  best  established  reputation, 
have  been  able  to  attain  to.  The  most  accomplished  persons 
have  usually  some  defect,  some  weakness  in  their  characters, 
which  diminishes  the  lustre  of  their  brighter  qualifications. 
Tiberius  had  his  forms;  Charteris  now  and  then  deviated 
into  honesty;  and  even  Lord  Bute  prefers  the  simplicity  of 
seduction  to  the  poignant  pleasures  of  a  rape.  But  yours,  my 
Lord,  is  a  perfect  character :  through  every  line  of  public  and 
of  private  life  you  are  consistent  with  yourself.'  After  doing 
everything,  in  your  public  station,  that  a  minister  might 
reasonably  be  ashamed  of,  you  have  determined,  with  a  noble 
spirit  of  uniformity,  to  mark  your  personal  history  by  such 
strokes  as  a  gentleman,  without  any  great  disgrace  to  his 
assurance,  might  be  permitted  to  blush  for.  I  had  already 
conceived  a  high  opinion  of  your  talents  and  disposition. 
Whether  the  property  of  the  subject,  or  the  general  rights  of 
the  nation  were  to  be  invaded ;  or  whether  you  were  tired  of 
one  lady,  and  chose  another  for  the  honourable  companion  of 
your  pleasures ;  whether  it  was  a  horse-race,  or  a  hazard-table, 
a  noble  disregard  of  forms  seemed  to  operate  through  all  your 
conduct.  But  you  have  exceeded  my  warmest  expectations. 
Highly  as  I  thought  of  you,  your  Grace  must  pardon  me  when 
I  confess  that  there  was  one  effort  which  I  did  not  think  you 
equal  to.  I  did  not  think  you  capable  of  exhibiting  the  lovely 
Thais  *  at  the  opera-house,  of  sitting  a  whole  night  by  her 
side,  of  calling  for  her  carriage  yourself,  and  of  leading  her  to 
it  through  a  crowd  of  the  first  men  and  women  in  this  king- 
dom. To  a  mind  like  yours,  my  Lord,  such  an  outrage  to 
your  wife,  such  a  triumph  over  decency,  such  insult  to  the 
company,  must  have  afforded  the  highest  gratification.  When 
all  the  ordinary  resources  of  pleasure  were  exhausted,  this,  I 
presume,  was  your  novissima  voluptas.  It  is  of  a  lasting 
nature,  my  Lord,  and  I  dare  say  will  give  you  as  much 
pleasure  upon  reflection,  as  it  did  in  the  enjoyment.  After 
80  honourable  an  achievement,  a  poet^s  imagination  could  add 
but  one  ray  more  to  the  lustre  of  your  character.  Obtain  a 
divorce f,   marry  the  lady,  and  I  do  not  doubt  but  Mr. 

*  Milt  Parsons,  afterwards  Lady  Maynard. 

i*  The  Duke  of  Grafton  was,  subsequently  to  the  date  of  this  letter,  dirorced 
from  Mist  Liddel,  then  Duchess  of  Grafton,  and  married,  not  th»  lady  ia 


BIFRONS  TO   THE   PUBLIC   ADVERTISER.  175 

Bmdsbaw  will  be  civil  enough  to  give  her  away,  with  an 
honest  artless  smile  of  approbation. 


LETTER  XXI. 

TO  THE   PBINTEB   OF  THE   PUBLIC   ADVEBTI8EB. 

Sir,  April  23,  1768. 

If  I  were  to  characterize  the  present  ministry  from  any  single 
yirtue  which  shines  predominant  in  their  idministnLtionr  I 
should  fix  upon  duplicity  as  the  proper  word  to  express  it. 

I  would  not  here  be  misunderstood:  I  do  not  by  this  mean 
only  the  little  sneaking  quality,  commonly  called  double- 
dealing,  which  every  pettifogging  rascal  may  attain  to,  but 
that  real  duplicity  of  character  which  our  ministers  have 
assumed  to  themselves,  by  which  every  member  of  their  body 
acts  in  two  distinct  capacities,  and,  Janus-like,  bears  two  faces 
and  two  tongues,  either  of  which  may  give  the  lie  to  the  other 
without  danger  to  his  reputation. 

This  is  the  present  catholic  political  faith«  which,  unless  a 
man  believes,  he  shall  not  get  a  place ;  and  if  people  would 
attend  to  this,  they  would  be  able  to  account  for  many  of  our 
great  men's  actions,  which  are  unaccountable  any  other  way. 

By  this  rule  a  man  may  say  as  a  judge  that  the  loss  of  an 
Englishman's  liberty  for  twenty -four  hours  only  is  grievous 
beyond  estimation ;  and  then  as  a  minister  may  declare,  that 
forty  days'  tyranny  is  a  trifling  burthen,  which  any  English- 
man may  bear*. 

As  a  member  of  parliament,  a  man  may  give  his  word  that 
a  certain  bill  shall  be  dropped ;  and  the  next  day,  as  a  chan- 
cellor of  the  exchequer,  may  bring  it  into  the  house. 

A  first  lord  of  the  treasury  may  declare  upon  his  honour 
that  he  has  no  concern  in  India  stock ;  but  there  is  nothing 
in  this  to  hinder  him  as  a  private  man  from  having  a  share 
with  any  young  lady  of  virtus  to  the  amount  of  JJO,OOOZ. 

In  those  cases,  you  see,  the  duplicity  of  character  in  whicn 

fnestion,  but  Miss  Wrottesley,  niece  to  the  Duchess  of  Bedford.  See  Junius, 
Letter  12,  vol.  i.  p.  153. 

*  In  allusion  to  Lord  Camden's  opinion  upon  the  power  of  the  Croim 
to  suspend  an  Act  of  Parliament  See  the  subject  farther  diseased  in  Junius 
Letter  60,  vol  i.  p.  471. 


174  MISCELLANEOUS  LETTERS  ASCRIBED   TO   JUNIUS. 

they  act  covers  the  parties  from  all  sort  of  hlame ;  but  T  will 
now  do  honour  to  the  noble  Duke,  who,  from  under  the  foot- 
stool of  gouty  legs*,  has  crept  into  the  elbow  chair,  who, 
though  green  in  years,  is  ripe  in  devices.  It  is  he  who  has 
carried  this  double-faced  virtue  to  its  greatest  pitch.  He  has 
not  only  practised  it  with  great  success  in  public  affairs,  but 
has  also  lately  introduced  it  into  dealings  between  man  and 
man. 

Everybody  knows  the  story  of  nullum  tempos,  and  the  ap- 
plication of  it  to  rob  the  Duke  of  Portland  of  30,000/.  The 
Duke  of  Grafton  (as  set  forth  in  a  case  lately  published)  upon 
a  representation,  before  any  proceedings  were  had  in  the 
affair,  did  actually  promise  to  the  Duke  of  Portland,  **  That 
no  step  should  be  taken  towards  the  decision  of  the  matter  in 
question  till  his  Grace's  title  should  be  stated,  referred  to,  and 
reported  on  by  the  proper  officer,  and  fully  and  maturely  con  • 
sidered  by  the  board  of  treasury."  Had  the  Duke  of  Portland 
been  fully  apprised  of  the  new  doctrine  of  the  twofold  state  of 
ministers,  he  would  have  considered  this  promise  (as  it  was 
really  meant)  as  illusory,  and  only  an  expedient  to  lull  him 
asleep  while  the  business  was  going  on.  But  his  Grace  knew 
no  more  of  this  maxim  than  if  he  had  been  an  India  director, 
and  thought  that  a  promise  was  a  promise  in  whatever  cha- 
racter it  was  given;  so  while  he,  in  full  confidence,  was  pre- 
paring the  proofs  of  his  right,  the  affair  in  dispute  was  given 
away,  and  the  new  grant  to  Sir  James  Lowther  made  out, 
signed  and  sealed  in  the  treasury,  without  ever  "  his  Grace's 
title  being  stated,  referred  to,  or  reported  on,  by  the  proper 
officer,  or  fully  and  maturely  considered  by  the  board." 

Lest  any  one  should  think  that  I  partially  ascribe  this  con- 
duct of  the  Duke  of  Grafton  to  my  &vourite  principle  of  two 
natures,  when  it  ought  to  be  laid  to  some  other  of  his  Grace's 
virtues,  I  shall  here  quote  a  reply  to  the  Duke  of  Portland's 
case,  lately  published  (as  it  is  said)  under  the  auspices  of  the 
treasury,  where  this  doctrine  is  defended  with  equal  modesty 
and  truth.  The  writer  begins  by  admitting  the  promise, 
which  he  says  was  inadvertently  given  by  the  Duke  of  Graf- 
ton ;  but  then,  says  he,  "  since  he  was  the  king's  servant,  and 
had  no  title  to  the  making  this  promise,  he  perceived  he  was 

*  Lord  Chatham*!. 


BJFBONS  TO   T^E   PUBUC   ADVEKTISKB.  17  D 

not  in  honour  bound  to  adhere  to  it."  Now  here  is  a  fail 
distinction  between  the  king's  servant  and  the  man  of  honour, 
a  distinction  which,  I  believe,  few  people  at  present  are  dis- 
posed to  deny.  His  Grace  (who  has  undoubtedly  very  delicate 
perceptions)  perceived  that  as  a  king's  minister  he  was  not 
bound  to  keep  a  promise  which  he  had  made  as  a  private 
man ;  and  in  this  (continues  the  pamphleteer)  **  he  can  be 
supported  by  the  soundest  casuists."  I  am  not  deeply  read 
in  aulliors  of  that  professed  title,  but  I  remember  seeing  Bu- 
senbaum,  Suarez,  Molina,  and  a  score  of  other  Jesuitical  books, 
burnt  at  Paris  for  their  sound  casuistry  by  the  hands  of  the 
common  hangman  *.    I  do  not  know  that  thej  have  yet  found 

*  All  kinds  of  strange  conclusions  have  been  drawn  from  the  above 
■entence  relative  to  the  burning  of  the  Jesuits'  books,  in  reference  to  who 
were  likely  to  have  been  present  as  spectators  of  the  conflagration.     A  de- 
cree of  the  Parliament  of  Paris,  dated  August  6,  1761,  had  ordered  that 
certain  books  by  Jesuits  should  be  burnt,  in  the  palace  yard  at  the  foot  of 
the  great  staircase,  by  the  common  hangman,  "  as  seditious,  destructive  of 
every  principle  of  Christian  morality,  teaching  a  murderous  and  abominable 
doctrine,  not  only  against  the  safety  of  the  lives  of  the  subjects,  but  also 
against  that  of  the  sacred  persons  of  sovereigns."     The  works  condemned 
were  chiefly  those  of  Busenbaum  and  his  commentator  Lacroix.     The  decree 
was  executed  August  7,  1761.     There  had  been  previous  burnings  of  the 
books  of  Busenbaum,  namely,  in  1757  and  1758,  and  there  may  have  been 
others  later  than  that  of  1761.     It  follows  that  if  Bifrons  was  Junius, 
Junius  was  in  Paris  at  this  date ;  and  if  Sir  Philip  Francis  was  Junius, 
Francis  was  in  Paris.     But  Francis  is  not  known  to  have  been  in  Paris  that 
year ;  he  is  known  to  have  been  with  Lord  Kinnoul  at  Lisbon,  from  which 
dty  he  returned   to  England  in   October.      Therefore,   according   to  Mr. 
Coventry,  who  first  raised  the  objection,  and  was  followed  by  Mr.  Barker 
with  other  an ti- Franciscans,  Sir  Philip  Francis  could  not  have  been  Junius. 
But  the  superstructure  falls  to  the  ground  at  once  by  removiizg  the  founda- 
tion. 

Is  there  any  evidence  that  Bifrons  was  Junius  1  We  believe  none ;  nor  has 
Mr.  Good  adduced  any.  Junius  himself  has  nowhere  said  that  he  ever  wit- 
nessed a  burning  of  books  in  Paris.  Bifrons'  epistle  has  no  signs  of  Junius; 
it  is  loose  in  style,  desultory  and  unconnected,  and  has  nothnig  in  common 
with  that  great  writer,  excepting  his  dislike  to  the  Duke  of  Q-rafton.  It 
may  be  doubted,  indeed,  whether  Bifrons  was  an  Englishman,  or  even  an 
Irishman  ;  he  certainly  could  not  have  been  a  British  subject  in  1761,  unless 
he  was  a  prisoner  of  war,  for  in  that  year  we  were  at  hot  war  with  France. 
Bat  if  a  prisoner  of  war,  how  unlikely  that  he  could  be  at  Paris  to  witness 
an  atUo  da  fi  of  heretical  books ;  he  would  have  been  confined  in  the  in- 
terior of  the  kingdom,  not  left  at  large  to  indulge  his  curiosity  in  the  capital. 
Unquestionably  Bifrons  is  spurious. 
Mv  Bohn«  the  publisher  of  the  present  volume,  famishes  the  following  bibli*' . 


176         MISCELLANEOUS  LETTERS  ASGBTBED   TO  JUNIUS. 

their  way  to  England,  unless  perchance  it  be  to  the  libntrr 
of  his  Grace  of  Grafton,  where  they  probably  stand  with  the 
chapter  of  promises  dog-eared  down  for  the  perusal  of  scru* 
pulous  statesmen. 

This  doctrine,  once  fully  established,  will  add  a  great 
facility  to  business,  and  prevent  unnecessary  delays ;  for  ex- 
ample, in  former  times  a  minister  would  have  been  exceed- 
ingly hampered  with  such  a  promise  as  we  have  here  cited : 
he  would  have  shifted,  and  delayed,  and  played  the  back-game 
to  have  got  rid  of  it,  or  to  reconcile  the  breach  to'  his  con- 
science and  reputation ;  but  here  you  see  there  was  no  unne- 
cessary delay:  the  business  went  on;  and  he  who  acknow- 
ledged that  he  had  given  his  word  in  a  private  capacity,  brings 
the  book  to  prove  that  as  a  first  lord  of  the  treasury  *'  he  was 
not  bound  to  adhere  to  it," — and  this  is  sound  casuistry* 
Thus  a  man  who  is  dexterous  in  state  legerdemain  may  play 
liis  two  characters  like  cups  and  balls ;  speak,  write,  read,  lie, 
promise,  swear,  and  you  can  never  catch  him  till  the  box  drop 
out  of  his  hand. 

I  proposed  to  have  made  this  a  complete  panegyric  on  the 
puke  of  Grafton ;  but  I  find  it  extremely  difficult  to  draw 
one  character  of  a  man  that  acts  in  two.  If,  however,  my  poor 
attempt  towards,  it  should  find  favour  in  his  sight,  I  hope  he 

graphical  account  of  these  three  Jesuits  and  their  books: — Bosenbaum's 
work,  entitled  *'  MedulltC  Theologiae  Moralis,"  was  formerly  a  text  book  with 
the  Jesaits,  and  so  popular  that  it  underwent  more  than  fifty  editions  in  less 
than  half  a  century.  It  was  first  published  about  1640,  in  a  small  duo- 
decimo, and  in  1757  was  amplified  to  two  bulky  folios  by  Claude  Lacroix. 
This  latter  edition  specially  advocated  the  authority  of  the  Pope,  even  over 
the  person  of  kings,  and  promulgated  some  doctrines  concerning  homicide  and 
regicide  which  were  just  then  particularly  obnoxious  to  Louis  XY.,  on  account 
of  the  recent  attempt  on  his  life  by  Damien. 

In  consequence  the  book  was  ordered  to  be  publicly  burnt,  first  at  Tou- 
louse in  1707,  and  then  at  Paris  in  1761.  Subsequent  to  this  period  there 
are  no  burnings  on  record.  With  respect  to  Suarez,  one  of  the  most 
learned  of  the  Jesuits,  we  find  no  evidence  of  any  of  his  works  having 
been  publicly  burnt  since  1614.  At  that  date  his  "  Defensio  Fidei  Catholici 
contra  Anglicanae  sectss  errores  "  was  officially  burnt  at  Sens,  as  it  had  pro- 
viously  been,  by  order  of  James  I.,  in  London. 

Molina  died  in  1660.  His  work  on  "  Grace  and  Freewill,"  published  at 
Lisbon  1588  9,  gave  rise  to  tke  celebrated  congregation  De  Av>xiliis,  instituted 
in  1597  by  Clement  YIII. ;  but  all  agitation  excited  by  his  writings  had 
ceased  long  before  1761,  nor  is  there  any  reason  to  belieye  that  they  w«M 
at  any  time  publicly  burnt  either  at  fans  sr  elsewhere^ — Ba 


€.  TX)  THE   VUBLIC   ADTEBITSKB.  177 

will  on  a  futare  occasion  afford  me  the  means  of  distinguishing 
between  his  two  characters,  as  Moliere*s  Sosia  does  between 
the  two  Amphitrions,  *'  e'est  TAmphitrion  chez  qui  Ton 
dine" 

BIFBONS. 


LETTER  XXII. 

TO  THE  PSIMTEB  OF  THB  PUBLIC  ADYERTISBB. 

May  6, 1768. 
Nil  adminri. — ^Hor. 
Stt, 
When  the  advocates  of  the  ministry  assure  us  that  there 
never  was  a  set  of  men  more  careful  of  the  happiness  of  his 
Majesty's  subjects  I  presume  it  is  Horace's  sense  of  happi- 
ness which  they  would  be  understood  to  promote.  If  it  be 
their  dettign  to  reduce  us  to  a  state  of  resignation  in  which  we 
shall  wonder  at  nothing  they  do,  their  bitterest  enemies  must 
confess  that  their  endeavours  to  make  us  happy  have  been  no 
less  indefatigable  than  ingenious.  By  a  regular  progression 
from  surprise  to  wonder,  from  wonder  to  astonishment,  and 
so  on  through  all  the  forms  of  admiration,  they  have  at  last 
conducted  us  to  that  philosophical  state  of  repose  which  may 
set  even  the  miracles  of  the  present  ministry  at  defiance.  If 
the  force  of  example,  beyond  all  ethics,  had  not  made  me  as  cal- 
lous as  a  shoeing-hom,  the  contents  of  Saturday  night's  Ga- 
zette would,  I  confess,  have  made  me  stare.  When  his 
Miyesty  (God  bless  him!)  is  in  perfect  health,  to  be  informed 
that  the  first  session  of  a  new  parliament  is  to  be  opened  by 
commission,  is  a  novelty  which,  had  I  been  less  confirmed  in 
my  principles  than  I  am,  would,  I  own,  have  filled  me  with  a 
certain  portion  of  amazement*     That  the  minister  himself 

*  From  the  London,  QazaU.—WhUehaZl,  AfrU  80.  It  being  HU 
Majet^s  royal  intention  tbat  the  parliament  which  is  sommoned  to  meet  on 
Tiieiday,  the  10th  day  of  May  next,  should  then  meet  and  tit,  the  King  has 
been  pleased  to  direct  a  commission  to  pass  the  great  seal,  appointing  and 
aathorisinff  his  royal  highness  the  Duke  of  Gloocester,  his  royal  highneu  the 
Duke  of  Omnberland,  Thomas,  Lord  Archbishop  of  Canterbury,  and  othei 
lords,  to  open  and  hold  the  said  parliament  on  the  said  lOtb  day  of  May 
aexty  being  the  day  of  tiie  return  of  the  writs  of  sumraona 

TOL    U  K 


176     '    MISCELLANEOUS  LETTEBS  ASCRIBED  TO  JITNirS 

Bhould  have  his  reasons  for  not  being  very  desirous  to  meet  a 
parliament,  or  that  he  should  wish  to  answer  for  his  conduct 
by  coDfusion,  is  not  so  extraordinary ;  but  that  he  should  give 
such  advice  to  a  prince,  beloved,  adored  by  his  people,  is  a 
step,  which,  in  my  present  condition,  does  everything  but  sur- 
prise me.  Is  it  possible,  Mr.  Printer,  that  the  ministry 
should  not  know  what  sort  of  interpretation  will  ht  given  to 
this  measure  ;  or  did  they  mean  to  give  the  finishing  stroke 
to  Mr.  Wilkes^s  triumph,  and  to  the  dishonour  which  they, 
and  they  alone,  have  heaped  upon  the  crown?  I  protest.  Sir, 
I  had  veiy  near  betrayed  my  principles,  and  suffered  an  in 
decent  expression  of  surprise  to  escape  me.  At  a  time  when 
the  residence  of  the  sovereign  was  really  exposed  to  violence 
and  insult 't',  these  worthy  ministers  gallantly  retreated  from 
the  danger;  but  now,  to  make  amends  for  that  desertion,  they 
affect  a  care  for  the  King*s  security,  equally  ridiculous  and 
disgraceful.  What,  Sir,  is  government  in  their  hands  reaDy 
sunk  so  low  that  they  dare  not  hazard  a  meeting  between 
their  sovereign  and  his  parliament  ?  Or  are  they  afraid  that  an- 
other language  might  be  held  to  parliament  than  that  which 
they  dictate ;  that  some  expression  of  a  just  resentment  of 
their  baseness  should  escape ;  or  do  they  acknowledge  to  ih.^ 
world  their  apprehensions  of  the  populace  ?  If  that  be  the 
case,  I  can  only  say,  that  the  infamy  of  the  measure  can  be 
exceeded  by  nothing  but  the  vileness  of  the  motive. 

These  distant  hints,  I  hope.  Sir,  (as  I  think  the  ministry 
do  not  pique  themselves  much  upon  steadiness)  may  appear 
time  enough  to  induce  them  to  recommend  a  different  system, 
more  worthy  of  the  crown,  though  less  worthy  of  themselves. 

a 


LETTER  XXIII. 

TO  THE   PRIITTEB  OF  THE   FUBUG   ADYEBTISEB.. 

Sib,  May  12, 1768. 

I  HAVE  read  in  your  paper  of  this  day  a  second  letter  in  de- 
fence of  the  conduct  of  the  treasury  relative  to  the  late  extrm- 
ordinary  grant.    That  conduct  was  a  specimen  of  their  prin 

*  See  note,  vd.  L  p.  147,  and  Miscellaneous  Letter,  No.  17,  (uU$,  p.  Ittitl 


■C^f^Cy"*'* 


VALKBIUS  TO  THB  PUBLIC  ADVBETISEB.  179 

dpies     They  have  now  thought  fit  to  give  the  puolic  a  sample 
of  their  reasoning. 

Their  letter  ought  to  have  heen  (if  it  had  heen  what  it 
pretends  to  he)  an  answer  to  the  several  accusations  laid 
against  them  in  a  pamphlet,  entitled  **The  Duke  of  Port- 
land's Case."  Their  answer  is  an  attempt  to  prove  that  the 
Duke  of  Portland  had  no  right  in  law  to  those  lands,  of  which 
he  and  his  family  have  so  long  continued  in  possession,  and 
which  have  heen  lately  granted  hy  the  treasury  to  Sir  James 
Lowther,  son-in-law  to  the  Earl  of  Bute. 

I  do  not  mean  here  to  make  any  reply  to  the  futile  argu- 
ments hy  which  the  ministers,  or  their  advocate,  endeavour  to 
establish  this  point.  Because  the  point  itself  is,  as  they  know, 
wholly  foreign  to  the  question,  and  does  in  no  sort  concern 
the  public.  They  shall  not  be  permitted  to  evade  in  this 
manner  the  real  edge  of  the  charge  that  lies  against  them. 

The  charge  against  them  is  not  that  they  have  granted  to 
Sir  James  Lowther  an  estate  which,  in  law,  is  the  right  of  the 
puke  of  Portland;  but  that  they  partially,  and  in  many  .parts 
of  tnc  pnvfediug,  surreptitiously,  upon  the  bare  report  of  a 
subordinate  oiUcer,  without  suffering  his  vouchers  to  be  ex- 
amined, without  hearing  counsel,  or  allowing  time  or  means 
of  defence  to  the  party,  or  of  due  information  to  themselves, 
have  violated  the  equitable  and  presumptive  rights  of  long 
and  undisputed  possession,  for  the  purposes  of  undue  influence 
at  an  election,  and  of  paying  a  base  court  to  a  clandestine  and 
dangerous  power. 

This  is  the  charge  against  them ;  which  they  have  not  at- 
tempted to  answer ;  which  they  never  can  answer ;  and  which 
will  fix  a  brand  upon  their  foreheads,  that  no  sophistry  will 
he  able  to  efi&ce,  and  no  veils  of  ministerial  artifice  will  be ' 
thick  enough  to  conceal  from  the  eyes  of  an  indignant  and  an 
•njured  people. 

The  ministers  affect  to  be  surprised  that  the  writer  of  the 
Duke  of  Portland's  case  has  taken  no  notice  of  his  Grace  s 
trtle,  and  has  not  set  forth  the  surveyor  general's  report 
against  it:  they  are  at  liberty  to  amuse  themselves  with  such 
observations.  I  hope  that  writer  will  never  give  them  any 
disturbance  in  their  learned  pleadings  on  this  subject.  He' 
has,  I  trust,  too  much  sense  to  moot  in  the  public  papers  ths 
legal  construction  of  a  clause  in  a  crown  grant. 

s  2 


180  IflSCELLANEOVB  LETTERS  ASGBIBED  TO  JUKIUS. 

I 

It  is  a  matter  of  peif ect  indifference  to  the  public,  wbeth«f 
the  grant,  for  instance,  of  the  manor  of  Dale  is  sufficient  to 
oonvey  SwiUe  also  as  its  appendant ;  or  whether  8tc(^^  Wight 
specifically  to  be  named,  lliese  are  not  the  sort  of  questions 
with  which  we  are  affected :  the  ministers  may  think  it  wise, 
perhaps,  to  hazard  the  good  faith  of  a  crown  grant  upon  such 
subtle  criticisms.  Their  operation  one  way  or  the  other  (if 
prescription  had  not  intervened)  would  not  hare  been  a  mat 
ter  greatly  to  concern  the  public;  but  it  does  concern  the 
pubHc,  and  in  the  highest  degree,  whether  long,  quiet,  undis 
puted  possession,  which  is  the  best  of  titles  against  the  sub- 
4ect,  shall  or  shall  not  be  a  title  at  all  against  the  crown? 
^Vhether  a  treasury,  availing  itself  of  a  remnant  of  odious, 
and  for  a  long  time  inactive  barbarism,  shall  upon  points  of 
legal  subtilty  endeavour  to  shake  that  title  ?  Whether  they 
shall  refuse  a  search  of  the  only  material  office  for  settling 
the  doubts  that  they  raised?  Whether  they  shall  decline 
taking  the  opinion  of  the  king's  law  servants  on  such  im- 
portant points  of  law?  Whether  they  shall  refuse  to  heaf 
the  party  by  his  counsel  ?  And  whether  without  any  of  those 
forms,  some  of  justice,  and  all  of  decency  and  candour,  they 
shall  arm  a  wealthy  and  powerful  informer  with  a  crown  claim 
to  harass  and  oppress  the  subject. 

These  aro  the  points  in  the  Duke  of  Portland's  case,  in 
which  the  public  is  concerned.  If  no  prescription  is  plead- 
able against  the  crown,  and  if  the  treasury,  without  hearing, 
is  suffered  at  pleasure  to  halloo  an  informer  at  your  estate, 
on  the  bare  roport  of  a  surveyor's  duty,  their  own  creature ; 
— woe  to  the  property  of  England!  Remember  that  almosi 
all  that  property  has  at  one  time  or  other  flowed  from  royal 
grants.  No  possessor,  no  purohaser,  no  mortgagee  is  safe ; 
no  further  safe  than  he  is  covered  by  the  act  of  James  the  First, 
which  is  now  sought  to  be  converted  from  a  temporary  rega- 
lation  into  a  perpetual  rule  of  law. 

That  truly  wise  and  patriotic  bill,  which  the  ministerial 
gentlemen  aro  pleased  to  term  fiEictious,  was  what  our  ances- 
tors called  for,  and  so  fjEur  as  it  regarded  themselves,  obtain( 
on  the  alarm  of  just  such  sort  of  grants  as  this  to  Sir  Jami 
Lowther.  They  did  not  contend  that  the  grants  should 
made,  only  in  cases  where  the  crown  had  a  plausible  titli 
No:  they  maintains  I  **that  such  titles  prior  to  8ikt9'y( 


VALEBItTS  TO  THE  FDBIilO    ADTBBTISEB.  181 

nhoald  not  be  set  up  at  all.**  They  demanded  that  the  crown 
should  litigate  with  the  subject  on  the  same  terms  of  equity 
on  which  the  subjects  litigated  with  one  another ;  and  thaf 
sixty  years  of  possession  should  bar  a  royal  as  well  as  a  pri 
vote  claim. 

They  lived,  indeed,  in  an  age  of  extravagant  prerogative, 
and  they  could  not  obtain  this  right  fully  for  posterity ;  but 
they  did  what  they  could,  and  secured  it  for  themselves.  The 
arguments  of  the  ministry  are  not  against  the  Duke  of  Port 
land,  but  against  the  doctrine  of  prescription  itself;  against 
natural  justice ;  and  against  the  principles  of  that  wise  and 
constitutional,  though  (by  the  misfortune  of  its  time)  imper 
feet  law,  the  statute  of  the  21st  of  King  James  the  First. 

What  do  we  care  whether  this  dormant  and  antiquated 
claim  of  the  crown  be  well  or  ill  founded  in  strict  law  ?  I 
take  it  for  granted  that  it  has  no  foundation  ;  and  make  no 
sort  of  doubt  that  when  it  comes  to  trial,  it  will  appear  scan 
dalously  groundless.  Besides  the  favourable  presumption 
that  ought  to  operate  for  possession,  the  whole  conduct  of  the 
treasury  gives  me  a  right  to  conclude  against  them.  If  they 
were  so  sure  of  the  validity  of  their  claim,  why  did  they  not 
a  little  discuss  the  grounds  of  the  surveyor's  report,  and  order 
him  to  produce  his  vouchers  ?  How  could  it  hurt  this  or  any 
other  fair  claim  (supposing  this  a  fair  one)  to  have  the  records 
in  his  office  inspected  ?  Would  a  fair  claim  be  hurt  by  having 
it  openly  and  solemnly  debated  by  counsel?  Any  set  of  men 
who  have  regard  even  to  decorum  in  their  injustice,  could 
never  have  acted  with  this  barefaced  partiality  to  one  person, 
and  with  such  a  scandalous  spirit  of  oppression  towards 
another. 

It  was  in  their  official  capacity  they  ought  to  have  seen  thib 
right  of  the  crown  to  make  this  grant  defended,  and  the  right 
cf  the  Duke  of  Portland  examined.  They  ought  to  have  had 
the  King's  counsel  to  cover  them  with  their  opinions  and 
STguments  in  point  of  law ;  and  cot  to  have  first  passed  the 
grant  without  hearing  or  examination,  and  then  trusted  for 
their  apology  to  a  legal  discussion  argued  miserably,  and 
without  authority,  in  a  common  newspaper.  Their  arguments 
might  have  been  produced  with  some  grace  and  some  weight 
to  the  public,  when  it  was  known  that  they  had  been  officially 
considered,  and  fairly  canvassed  among  all  the  jarties  con 


182  MISCELLANEOUS  LETTERS  ASCRIBED  TO  JUNIFS. 

cerned  before  the  act  wcls  done;  and  that  these  arguments 
were  the  grounds  of  their  conduct,  not  excuses  for  their  de- 
linquency. At  present  they  can  onlj  excite  contempt  for 
their  weak  defence  of  those  actions,  whose  atrociousneas  had 

before  merited  the  abhorrence  of  all  good  men. 

VALERIUS. 


LETTER  XXIV. 

TO   THE   PRINTER  OF  THE   PUBLIC   ADVERTISER, 

Sir,  May  19,  1768. 

An  officer  of  the  guards,  on,  whose  veracity  I  can  rely,  has  in- 
formed me  that  the  Secretary  at  War  has  thought  proper  to 
write  a  letter  of  thanks  to  the  commanding  officer  of  the 
troops  lately  employed  in  St.  George's  Fields*.  The  sub- 
stance of  it,  as  well  as  I  can  remember,  is  rather  of  an  extra- 
ordinary nature,  and  I  think  deserves  the  attention  and  con- 
sideration of  the  public.  I  understand  that  his  Lordship 
thanks  them  in  the  King's  name  for  their  good  behaviour,  and 
assures  them  that  his  Msyesty  highly  approves  of  their  con- 

*  As  this  letter  is  frequently  alluded  to  by  Junius  in  the  course  of  the 
present  work,  we  shall  here  insert  a  copy  of  it : — 

«  Sir,  "  War  Office,  May  11, 1768. 

''  Having  this  day  had  the  honour  of  mentioning  to  the  King  the  behaTiom 
of  the  detachments  from  the  several  battalions  of  foot-guards  which  have 
been  lately  employed  in  assisting  the  civil  magistrates  and  preserving  the 
public  peace,  I  have  great  pleasure  in  informing  you  that  his  Majesty  highly 
approved  of  the  conduct  of  both  the  officers  and  men,  and  means  that  his 
Majesty's  approbation  should  be  communicated  to  them  through  yon. 
Employing  the  troops  on  so  disagreeable  a  service  always  gives  me  pain, 
but  the  circumstances  of  the  times  make  it  necessary.  I  am  persuaded  they 
see  that  necessity,  and  will  continue,  as  they  have  done,  to  perform  their 
duty  with  alacrity.  I  beg  you  will  be  pleased  to  assure  them  that  every 
possible  regard  shall  be  shown  to  them ;  their  seal  and  good  behaviour  upon 
this  occasion  deserve  it ;  and  in  case  any  disagreeable  circumstance  should 
happen  in  the  execution  of  their  duty,  they  shall  have  every  defence  and 
protection  that  the  law  can  authorize  and  this  office  can  give. 

"  I  have  the  honour  to  be.  Sir, 

"  Tour  most  obedient  and  most  humble  servant. 

'*  BABBISafC« 
'*^  Field  officer  in  staff  waiting  for  the 
three  regiments  of  foot-guards. 
"  Officers  for  guard  on  Saturday  next, 
Lieut.-Col.  Groin,  &c,  ^c* 


TIAT  JUSTIT^A   ON  WILK£S*S   BIOTS.  183 

dust.  He  further  engages  his  promise  that,  whatever  bad 
oonsequeuces  may  ensue,  they  may  depend  upon  the  utmost 
assistance  and  support  that  his  office  can  afford  them*.  With- 
out entering  into  the  evidence,  on  which  the  coroner's  verdict 
against  an  officer  and  some  soldiers  of  the  guards  was  founded, 
I  shall  not  scruple  to  say  that  this  mention  of  the  King  s 
name  is  very  improper  and  indecent.  The  father  of  his 
people  undoubtedly  laments  the  fatal  necessity  which  has 
occasioned  the  murder  of  one  of  his  subjects,  but  cannot  be 
supposed  to  approve  highly  of  a  conduct  which  has  had  dread- 
ful consequences.  An  event  of  this  shocking  nature  may 
admit  of  excuse  and  mitigation  from  circumstances  of  neces- 
sity, but  can  never  be  the  object  of  the  highest  royal  appro* 
bation ;  much  less  was  it  proper  to  signify  such  strong  appro- 
bation of  a  conduct  which  includes  a  &ct  still  svb  jtidice,  and 
the  particulars  of  which  are  not  yet  known  with  any  degree  of 
certainty. 

The  secretary  at  war  would  have  done  better  in  confining 
bis  letter  to  the  expression  of  his  own  sentiments.  What  he 
has  said  for  himself,  if  I  am  rightly  informed,  will  require 
more  wit  than  he  possesses  to  defend.  For  the  mere  benefit 
of  the  law,  I  presume,  the  prisoners  will  hardly  thank  him. 
ft  is  a  benefit  they  are  entitled  to,  and  will  certainly  have 
whether  he  and  his  office  interfere  or  not.  If  he  means  any 
thing  more,  let  him  look  to  his  words.  But  I  hold  it  to  bo 
highly  unconstitutional  as  well  as  illegal,  to  promise  official 
support  and  protection  to  either  party  in  a  criminal  case, 
wherein  the  King  prosecutes  for  the  loss  of  his  subject.  There 
is  a  degree  of  folly  in  a  minister  of  the  crown  signing  such  a 
i<etter  which  looks  like  infatuation;  but  I  hope  the  Court  of 

*  In  the  riot  here  alluded  to,  which  originated  from  a  vast  concourse  of 
people  aaaembled  together  opposite  the  King's  Bench  prison,  on  May  10,  in 
ihe  expectation  that  Wilkes  would  be  liberated  from  it  on  this  day  in  order 
to  take  his  seat  in  parliament  (it  being  the  first  day  of  its  session),  about 
fourteen  persons  were  shot,  and  more  wounded,  by  the  precipitate  firing  of 
the  military.  Among  the  rest  was  a  young  man  of  the  name  of  Allen, 
who  had  taken  no  part  in  the  tumult,  and  was  slain  in  an  out-house  be- 
longing to  his  father  (who  lived  in  the  neighbourhood)  in  the  very  act  ot 
imploring  meiey  of  the  soldiere  who  ehot  him.  Some  of  the  military  more 
immediately  engaged  were,  seeored  by  the  ciril  power,  and  were  on  the  point 
of  taking  their  tnal  ior  the  murder }  ftnd  it  ia  to  this  transaction  the  lett«i 
illudea* 


184  MISGELLAinSOUS    LETTEB8  ASOBIBED  TO  JUim78. 

Kiiig*s  Bench,  or  some  other  court,  will  let  him  know  what 
the  law  calls  abstment  and  maintenance,  and  bring  him  to 
ieme^ 

Yours^ 

FIAT  JUSTITIA*"! 


LETTER  XXV 
For  the  Pvblie  AdvertUer. 

JqIj  1, 176& 
10  masteb  haebt  in  blagk-bot  alley. 

At  ta,  ifaniil  obligasti 


Perfidum  Yotis  cap«t,  enigTMcis 
Atrior  mnlto. 

The  moment  I  heard  jou  had  given  a  poeitiTe  promise  t6 
Lord  Rockingham  in  my  fsLTOor,  I  did  yon  the  justice  to  be 
satisfied  that  all  my  hopes  and  pretensions  to  succeed  Mrs. 
were  at  an  end.  But  a  second  p:t)mise  which  I  under- 
stand you  haye  lately  given  to  another,  revives  my  spirits  and 
makes  me  flatter  myself  that  you  mean  me  no  harm.  I  have 
one  chance  less  against  me  than  I  had,  for  your  last  resolu- 
tion is  certainly  the  one  you  will  not  abide  by;  so  that  at  pre- 
sent there  is  nothing  in  my  way  but  your  engagement  to  Lord 
Rockingham,  the  bad  effects  of  which  I  shall  endeavour  to 
remove  by  this  letter.  I  feel  as  strongly  as  you  how  much  it 
would  violate  the  consistency  of  your  character  to  keep  your 
word  from  any  motives  of  probity  or  good  faith;  but  if  I  can 
suggest  to  you  the  means  of  performing  your  first  promise  to 
Lord  Rockin^am,  and  yet  ccmtinuing  as  great  a  rascal  as  you 
would  wish  to  be,  all  objections  on  the  score  of  integrity  will 
be  removed,  and  you  will  owe  me  no  small  obligation  into  the 
bargain.  You  are  a  mere  boy,  Harry,  notwithstanding  the 
down  upon  your  chin,  and  would  do  well  to  cultivate  the 
friendship  of  women  of  experience     With  all  due  submission 

*  This  and  the  preceding  letter*  to  Bifrtms,  inclnBiTe,  are  prohaKlj  by 
Junins ;  at  least  they  are  directed  to  questions  on  which  he  was  well  informed., 
and  on  which  he  occupied  himself  afterwards  with  a  more  discipaned  anS 


POMONA   TO  THE  FUBLIO  ADTEBIISEB.  lB5 

to  Mias  Nancy  s  *  personal  knowledge  of  the  world,  I  believe 
she  has  not  yet  taught  you  the  secret  of  keeping  your  word 
without  hurting  your  principles.  This  is  a  science  worthy  of 
a  superior  genius;  and  without  a  compliment,  Harry,  you 
have  talents  to  improve  it  into  a  system  of  treachery,  which, 
though  it  may  shorten  your  natural  life,  will  make  your  re- 
putation immortal. 

In  the  first  place,  I  presume,  you  will  have  no  difficulty  in 

breaking  your  word  with  Mrs.  C ^y;  the  whole  distress 

lies  in  keeping  it  with  your  friend  the  Marquis.  My  advice 
is,  therefore,  tibat  you  should  order  Mr.  Bradshaw  to  write  to 
his  Lordship,  and  assure  him  in  the  civilest  terms,  that  **  cir- 
cumstances which  you  had  not  foreseen ; — that  it  was  with  iufi- 
nite  concern;— that  his  Lordship  s  recommendation  had  such 
weight  with  you ; — ^that  in  any  other  instance ; — that  you  flat- 
tered yourself  lus  Lordship  would  be  candid  enough  to  dis- 
tinguish between  the  minister  and  the  man; — but  that  in 
short  you  were  so  unfortunately  situated,  &c.,  &c.,  &c."  Mr 
Bradshaw's  manner  will  make  the  message  palatable,  and  it 
would  not  be  amiss  if  he  were  to  carry  it  himself.  Having 
disengaged  yourself  from  Lord  Eockingham,  you  must  at  the 
same  instant  write  me  a  letter  of  congratulation,  and  desire 
me  to  take  possession  immediately.  By  these  expedients 
you  will  preserve  all  the  duplicity  and  wayward  humour  of 
your  character;  you  will  have  the  merit  and  satisfaction  of 
fi&iling  to  two  people :  you  will  confer  a  favour  without 
obliging  anybody ;  and  your  enemies  give  you  credit  for  a  con- 
duct equally  honourable  to  your  morals  and  your  under- 
standing. 

Farewell,  Harry,  and  believe  me  to  be,  with  the  most  per- 
fect contempt,  yours, 

POMONA. 

P.S.  If  the  place  is  to  be  given  in  trust  for  Miss  Parsons, 
I  beg  leave  to  withdraw  my  pretensions ;  for  I  am  deter« 
mined  not  to  suffel  a  woman  to  be  quartered  upon  me  in  axxj 
shape. 

*  Nancy  Puaoni. 


166  MISCJfiLULNEOUS   LETTERS  ASGRIBEI>  TO    JUNIUS. 


LETTER  XXVI. 

TO  THE   FRINTEB  OF  THE   PUBLIC  ADYEBTISEB. 

Sir,  July  19, 1768. 

The  spirit  which  once  animated  the  Lonion  Gazette  seems  to 
have  expired  with  the  war.  The  learned  compiler  of  that 
paper  was  blest  with  a  genius  equal  to  the  description  of 
battles  and  victories,  but  could  not  descend  with  dignity  to 
the  pacific  annals  of  domestic  economy.  While  our  troops 
were  sacrificed  abroad,  his  pen  was  employed  with  equal 
bravery  in  murdering  our  language  at  home.  He  never  lost  a 
consonant  from  the  Elbe  to  the  Weser,  or  mollified  one  cir- 
cumstance in  all  the  guttural  pomp  of  a  German  campai^. 
But,  unfortunately  for  the  world,  his  style  perished  with  his 
subject,  and  we  see  him  now  hardly  able  to  support  tha 
fatigue  of  advertising  courtr mourning,  and  introducing  foreign 
ministers  under  the  auspices  of  Mr.  Stephen  Cotterell.  The 
gentle  slumbers  of  the  ministry  prevail  over  the  GazeUe  in 
which  their  dreams  are  recorded;  and  if  ever  we  see  the 
author  betray  a  sign  of  life,  it  is  only  when  his  principals 
turn  in  their  sleep.  I  presume  we  owe  the  Gazette  of  last 
Tuesday*  to  an  insomnium  with  which  these  gentlemen  are 
sometimes  troubled.  The  new  commission  of  trade  bears  all 
the  marks  of  that  drowsy  wildness  which  possesses  a  man, 
when  he  would  fain  go  to  sleep,  but  is  so  sore  all  over  that  he 
does  not  know  which  side  to  lie  upon.  One  day  we  have  a 
third  secretary  of  state  for  a  new  fi&ncy.     Next  day  down  goes 

*  The  following  is  a  copy  of  the  article  alluded  to : — 

"Whitehall,  July  12. 

**  The  King  has  been  pleased  to  constitute  and  appoint  the  lord  high  chau- 
celh>r ;  the  first  commissioner  of  his  Majesty's  treasury ;  the  lord  president 
of  the  council ;  the  first  commissioner  of  the  admiralty ;  his  Majesty's  prin- 
cipal secretaries  of  state ;  the  chancellor  of  his  Majesty's  exchequer ;  the  lord 
bishop  of  London ;  and  the  surveyor  and  auditor  general  of  all  his  Majesty's 
revenues  in  America  for  the  time  being;  together  with  Soame  Jenynsy 
Bdward  Eliot,  Gteorge  Rice,  John  Roberts,  Jeremiah  Dyson,  William  Fitz- 
herbert,  and  Thomas  Robinson,  Bsqnires,  to  be  commissioners  for  promoting 
trade,  and  for  inspecting  and  improving  his  Majesty's  phmtations  in  America 
and  elsewhere.  And  his  Majesty  has  thought  fit  to  direct  that  Wills,  Earl 
of  Hillsborough,  one  of  his  said  principal  secretaries  of  state,  shall  duly  attend 
tlie  meetings  of  hii  said  commissioners.* 


INBOMNIB    TO   MB.   WOOD^ALL.  18  V 

poor  Lord  Clare  (not  all  the  softness  of  bis  manners  nor 
modest  eloquence  can  save  him)  and  up  gets  the  new  secre- 
tary to  represent  both.  Hence  we  might  have  expected  a 
pause  of  a  few  minutes,  but  these  gentlemen  are  too  modest 
to  be  satisfied  with  anything  they  do;  and  now  for  measures 
of  yigour  with  a  vengeance!  The  chief  officers  of  the 
crown  having  little  else  to  do,  are  called  from  their  respective 
departments ;  the  prayers  of  a  reverend  prelate  are  desired ; 
Messieurs  Rice,  Jenyns,  Fitzherbert,  Eliot,  and  Robinson  still 
contribute  their  mites,  and  Wills,  Earl  of  Hillsborough,  is 
didy  to  attend  the  meetings.  The  colonies  must  be  ungovem* 
able  indeed  if  such  a  junto  cannot  govern  them.  In  the 
last  article  the  writer  of  the  Gazette  is  particularly  fortunate, 
and  avails  himself  with  his  usual  dexterity  of  all  the  advan- 
tage of  publishing  nonsense  by  authority.  This  dtie  attendance 
will  mean  anything  or  nothing,  just  as  the  reader  chooses. 
By  the  mark  set  upon  Wills,  it  should  seem  that  the  other 
commissioners  aie  not  duly  to  attend  the  meetings ;  or  per- 
haps government,  with  a  laudable  caution,  means  to  guard 
against  any  undue  attendance  of  the  said  Wills ;  they  may 
possibly  mean  that  Wills  alone  shall  be  a  quonim ;  or  it  may 
bo  but  to  guess  at  their  meaning  is  to  reason  without  dati, 
so  I  leave  it  as  they  have  done,  to  be  explained  by  contin* 
gencies. 

After  all,  Mr.  Printer,  these  are  feverish  symptoms,  and 
look  as  if  the  disorder  were  coming  to  a  crisis.  Even  this 
last  effort  is  the  forerunner  of  their  speedy  dissolution ;  like 
the  £a,lse  strength  of  a  delirium  which  exerts  itself  by  fits,  and 
dies  in  convulsions 

0*. 


LETTER  XXyil. 

TO  MB.   WOODFALL. 

Sir,  July  21, 1768. 

I  GOULD  not  help  smiling  at  your  correspondent  C.'s  dreaming 
animadversion,  in  your  paper  of  yesterday,  upon  the  commis- 

*  To  thii  letter  was  given  r  short  answer,  which,  as  it  produced  a  reply 
from  Jnnios,  is  here  inserted. 


1B8         MISCELLAKEOO  S  LETTERS    ASCKIBED   TO  JUNIUS. 

Bion  of  the  Board  of  Trade  He  modestly  fancies  himself 
awake,  while  all  the  ministry  are  enveloped  in  darkness  and 
dreams,  and,  according  to  him,  only  stir  to  stir  no  more.  Thus 
drunkards  imagine  that  everybody  reels,  and  that  the  world 
itself  is  in  disorder. 

He  owns  that  his  assertions  are  the  result  of  guess,  and 
«.hat  his  reasonings  are  without  the  necessary  data.  He  might 
liave  spared  himself  that  trouble ;  everybody  will  tell  him  the 
same.  Vastly  displeased  with  the  compiler  of  the  Gazette, 
he  drops  him  to  abuse  his  principals ;  and  because  they  do 
not,  or  choose  not,  to  furnish  his  empty  brain  with  chat  for  a 
day,  or  with  battles,  sieges,  and  victories  in  time  of  peace, 
they  are  therefore  doing  nothing,  or  at  best  are  but  dreaming 
like — himself.  As  he  most  sagaciously  begins  without  his 
d^,ta,  so  he  proceeds  (as  Mr.  Locke  says)  by  seeing  a  litUe, 
perhaps  like  a  man  half  awake,  presuming  a  great  deal,  and 
then  jumping  to  a  conclusion.  This,  it  is  owned,  he  has  ad- 
mirably well  done.  He  reads  in  the  Gazette,  that  several  of 
the  chief  officers  of  the  crown,  the  Bishop  of  London,  and 
some  others,  are  appointed,  together  with  Messieurs  Jenyns, 
Bice,  Eliot,  Fitzherbert,  and  Robinson  (whom  he  very  decently 
and  liberally  styles  &  junto)  to  be  commissioners  for  trade  and 
plantations,  and  that  the  Earl  of  Hillsborough  is  duly  to  attend 
their  meetings.  This  throws  our  gentleman  into  a  trance 
(coi.vinciiig  the  world  that  his  ignorance  and  insomnia  are 
well  blended),  and,  fraught  with  this  intelligence,  he  avers  that 
all  these  respectable  personages  are  new  commissioners  j 
whereas,  in  fact,  from  the  originjol  constitution  of  the  Board  of 
Trade,  they  have  a  right  to  sit  there  in  virtue  of  their  respec 
tive  offices,  though  not  obliged  as  Messrs.  Jenyns,  <&c.,  to  a 
due  and  constant  attendance.  In  every  new  commission  of 
the  Board  of  Trade,  these  officers  for  the  time  being  are  in- 
serted at  length  ;  and  at  the  same  time,  on  account  of  their 
other  public  avocations,  they  are  therein  released  from  the 
obligation  of  continually  sitting  at  that  board.  As  the  busi- 
ness of  the  colonies  has  of  late  years  much  increased,  it  was 
judged  necessary  by  the  Crown  to  appoint  one  other  principal 
secretary  of  state  for  the  transaction  of  colony  alfairs,  which 
are  daily  increasing  in  their  importance  to  this  kingdom ;  and, 
perhaps,  the  noble  Lord,  who  is  chosen  to  this  direction,  and 
vhose  masterly  abilities  are  the  object  of  your  correspondent's 


0.   TO  TBE   PUBLIC  ADTEKTISKB.  189 

inTidious  scurrility,  is  the  only  man  of  rank  adeqaate  to  this 
arduous  task  in  the  present  crisis  His  Lordship  is  also  to 
preside  at  the  Board  of  Trade,  for  the  facility  and  dispatch  oi 
husiness,  and  will  thereby  save  the  government  (as  he  has  no 
salary)  the  expense  of  a  first  commissioner.  lie  is  duly  to 
attend  the  meetings  of  that  board,  which  cannot,  as  Mr.  C. 
would  wisely  obtrude  upon  the  public  judgmeit,  mean  any- 
thing or  noting  at  pleasure  ;  for  when  there  art;  no  meetings 
his  Lordship  cannot  attend,  but  when  there  are  it  is  his  dtUy. 
This,  every  man  who  is  awake  can  understand ;  but  as  for 
such  dreamers  as  good  Master  C,  T  wish  they  might  s^ep 
more  soundly,  till  the  patriotism  they  attack  is  extinguished  ; 
and  then  I  believe  the  world  will  not  be  much  disturbed  with 

the  impertinent  visions  of  such  unquiet  repose. 

INSOMNIS. 


LETTER  XXVIII. 


TO   THE   PRINTEB  OF  THE   PUBLIC  ADVEBXISEB. 

Sib,  July  28, 1768. 

I  AH  willing  to  join  issue  with  your  correspondent  Insomnis^ 
that  one  of  us  is  fast  asleep,  and  submit  to  be  tried  by  a  jury 
of  plain  Englishmen,  who  may  be  supposed  to  understand 
their  own  language.  If  their  verdict  be  given  &gainst  him, 
all  I  desire  is  that  you  will  not  expose  his  inlirmity  to  the 
public,  or  suffer  him  to  say  things  in  his  sleep,  which  his 
modesty  will  blush  for  when  he  wakes. 

In  the  first  place,  I  never  averred  that  they  were  all  new 
commissioners,  though  I  spoke  of  a  new  commission.  Is  it 
possible  for  a  man  to  be  awake  and  not  distinguish  between 
these  expressions?  But  now  for  a  curious  discovery:  the 
great  officers  of  state,  it  seems,  are  bound  and  released  by  one 
and  the  same  act ;  that  is,  they  are  bound  to  the  public,  and 
released  in  private.  They  figure  away  as  men  of  business  in 
the  Gazette,  yet  by  a  secret  stipulation  are  relieved  from  the 
trouble  of  attendance.  If  Mcuagrida  had  any  interest  with 
the  present  ministry,  I  should  have  no  doubt  that  this  wai 
one  of  his  subtle  contrivanoes.    An  ostensible  engagement 


190         MISCELLANBOUS  LETT£BS  ASOIUBED  TO  JUNIUS. 

with  a  mental  reservation,  is  the  first  principle  of  the  morak 
"daMe,  professed  and  inculcated  by  the  Society  of  Jesus. 

Now,  Sir,  observe  how  carefully  the  example  is  adapted  to 
the  doctrine.  The  state  of  the  colonies  evidently  demanded 
some  extraordinary  measures  of  wisdom  and  of  vigour.  A 
pompous  list  of  names  is  held  forth  to  the  public,  as  if  the 
ministry  were  roused  by  the  importance  and  difficulty  of  the 
present  conjuncture,  and  were  determined  to  face  it  with  their 
whole  strength  and  abilities.  Such  was  the  appearance  which 
the  new  commission  was  intended  to  convey,  and  in  this  light 
I  apt!  very  sure  it  was  received  by  the  public :  yet  Insomnis 
is  so  candid  as  to  tell  us  that  the  ministry  meant  no  such 
thing ;  and  I  believe  him  very  sincerely.  A  council  is  insti- 
tuted which  is  never  to  sit,  and  commissioners  are  appointed 
on  condition  they  shall  never  attend :  a  common  way  of 
throwing  dust  into  the  eyes  of  the  public,  and  frequently  prac- 
tised with  success ;  but  I  believe  it  is  rather  uncommon  for  a 
ministerial  advocate  to  make  so  early  and  frank  a  confession 
of  truths,  which,  though  they  may  answer  other  purposes, 
will  do  his, patrons  but  little  honour  in  point  of  credit  and 
veracity. 

**  Go  to,  go  to,  yon  have  known  what  yoa  ibonld  not." 

A  man  who  talks  in  his  sleep  is  not  fit  for  a  confidential 
secretary,  at  least  to  a  ministry  who  have  so  many  secrets  to 
conceal. 

If  the  duplicity  of  this  contrivance  had  concerned  them- 
selves alone,  I  should  have  been  contented  with  comparing  it 
with  the  rest  of  their  conduct,  and  thought  no  more  of  it. 
But  I  Qwn  it  fills  me  with  indignation  to  see  the  name  of  a 
reverend  prelate  so  indecently  treated.  The  respect  due  to 
his  personal  character,  if  not  to  the  sanctity  of  his  station, 
should  have  preserved  him  from  so  gross  an  outrage.  To  see 
a  prelate  of  the  first  rank  mixed  in  a  low  Jesuitical  farce  of 
imposing  upon  the  public  with  a  great  council,  when  no  such 
matter  is  intended ! — Seriously,  Sir,  I  should  not  be  surprised 
if  his  Lordship  were  to  prosecute  the  writer  of  the  Gazette  for 
a  libel.  For  my  own  part.  Sir,  I  would  rather  see  my  name 
advertised  among  a  company  of  buffoons  at  Bartlemy  fain 
than  prostituted  in  a  ministerial  junto,  to  deceive  and  to  cheat 
my  countiy.    A  'fiEurce  upon  the  stage  may  amuse  at  least,  if 


LETTER  ON   COLORCAL  DISPUTES.  I&l 

not  instract,  but  ministerial  farces  are  too  dull  to  please,  and 
seldom  conclude  without  mischief  to  the  audience. 

I  admit  one  proposition  gravely  adyanced  by  Insdmnis, 
**  that  when  there  are  no  meetings,  Lord  Hillsborough  cannot 
attend  them ; "  but  I  am  not  quite  so  clear  about  the  article  of 
expense.  The  salary  of  a  first  commissioner  of  trade,  at 
three  thousand  pounds  a  year,  is  saved  by  appointing  a  third 
secretary  of  state  at  six  or  seven,  besides  all  the  expense  of  a 
new  office.  But  Insomnis  unfortunately  forgets  that  if  Mr. 
Thomas  Townshend,  contrary  to  all  expectation,  had  not  re- 
fused the  vice-treasurership  (because  the  offer  of  it  was  at 
tended  with  an  insult)  there  would  have  been  no  room  to  pro* 
vide  for  Lord  Clare,  consequently  he  must  have  remained  first 
eommissioner  of  trade,  and  all  this  charming  plan  of  economy, 
&cility,  and  dispatch,  must  have  waited  till  another  oppor* 
tunity. 

And  now,  Mr.  InsomniSt  I  shall  leave  you  to  your  repose. 
Your  patrons  indeed  may  turn,  and  turn,  and  get  no  rest ;  but 
what  occasion  is  there  for  your  sitting  up  to  watch  them  ? 

"  Thou,  quiet  bouI,  sleep  ihoa  a  quiet  sleep." 

Above  all  things  let  me  recommend  it  to  you,  never  to  pre- 
tend to  be  awake  for  the  future.  Tour  eyes  and  ears,  per- 
haps, are  open,  but  their  sense  is  shut,  and  really  it  is  not 
very  polite  of  you  to  come  into  company  in  your  night-cap. 

a 


.   LETTER  XXIX. 

TO  THB  FBIMTEB  OF  THE  PUBLIO  ADVBKTISEB. 

Sib,  July  80, 1768. 

It  is  not  many  months  since*  you  gave  me  an  opportunity  o^ 
demonstrating  to  the  nation,  as  far  as  rational  inference  and 
probability  could  extend,  that  the  hopes  which  some  men 
seemed  to  entertain,  or  to  profess  at  least,  with  regard  to 
America,  were  without  a  shadow  of  foundation.  They  seemed 
to  flatter  themselves  that  the  contest  with  the  colonies,  like  a 
disagreeable  question  in  the  House  of  Commons,  might  be  put 

*  Miaoellaaeous  Letter,  No.  10. 


fPd         WTSCELIAKEOUS  LETl£.]tS  ASCRIBED  TO    JXTNIUS. 

off  to  a  long  day,  and  provided  they  could  get  rid  of  it  for  the 
present,  they  thought  it  beneath  them  to  consult  either  their 
own  reputation,  or  the  true  interests  of  their  country.  But 
whatever  were  their  views  or  expectations,  whether  it  was  the 
mere  enmity  of  party,  or  the  real  persuasion  that  they  had 
but  a  little  time  to  live  in  office 't',  every  circumstance  which  I 
then  foretold  is  confirmed  by  experience.  The  conduct  of  the 
King's  servants  in  relation  to  America,  since  the  alteration  in 
1765,  never  had  a  reasonable  argument  to  defend  it,  and  the 
chapter  of  accidents  which  they  implicitly  relied  on,  has  not 
produced  a  single  casualty  in  their  feivour.  At  a  crisis  like 
this,  Sir,  I  shall  not  be  very  solicitous  about  those  idle  forms 
of  respect,  which  men  in  office  think  due  to  their  characters 
and  station ;  neither  will  I  descend  to  a  language  beneath  the 
importance  of  the  subject  T  write  on.  When  the  fate  of 
Great  Britain  is  thrown  upon  the  hazard  of  a  die,  by  a  weak, 
distracted,  worthless  ministry,  an  honest  man  will  sdways  ex- 
press all  the  indignation  he  feels.  This  is  not  a  moment  for 
preserving  forms,  and  the  ministry  must  know  that  the  lan- 
guage of  reproach  and  contempt  is  now  the  universal  language 
of  the  nation. 

We  find  ourselves  at  last  reduced  to  the  dreadful  alternative 
of  either  making  war  upon  our  colonies,  or  of  suffering  them 
to  erect  themselves  into  independent  states.  It  is  not  that  I 
hesitate  now  upon  the  choice  we  are  to  make.  Everything 
must  be  hazarded.  But  what  infamy,  what  punishment,  do 
those  men  deserve,  whose  folly  or  whose  treachery  hath  re- 
duced us  to  this  state,  in  which  we  can  neither  give  up  the 
cause  without  a  certainty  of  ruin,  nor  maintain  it  without  such 
a  struggle  as  must  shake  the  empire  ?  If  they  had  the  most 
distant  pretence  for  saying  that  the  present  coi^juncture  has 
arisen  suddenly,  that  it  was  not  foreseen  and  could  not  be 
provided  for,  we  should  only  have  reason  to  lament  that  our 
affairs  were  committed  to  such  ignorance  and  blindness.  But 
when  they  have  had  every  notice  that  it  was  possible  to  rec^ve, 
when  the  proceedings  of  the  colonies  have  for  a  considerable 
time  been  sot  less  notorious  than  alarming,  what  apology  have 
they  left  ?    Upon  what  principle  will  they  now  defend  them- 

*  The  Bnckixtgham  admiiiktntiou,  which  lasted  from  July  10, 1765^ 
July  so,  1760. 


LETTERS  ON  COLONIAL  DISPUTES.  193 

sdlves  ?  From  the  first  appearance  of  that  rebellious  spirit 
which  has  spread  itself  all  over  the  colonies,  the  chief 
members  of  tlie  present  ministry  were  the  declaried  advocates 
of  America.  Every  art  of  palliation,  of  concealment,  and 
even  of  justification,  was  made  use  of  in  favour  of  that  country 
against  Great  Britain.  Some  there  were  who  did  not  even 
scruple  to  pledge  themselves  for  the  future  submission  and 
loyalty  of  the  colonies.  Every  principle  of  government  was 
subverted,  and  such  absurdities  maintained  as  common  sense 
should  blush  for.  When  all  these  arguments  fiBuled,  and  when 
the  proceedings  of  the  colonies  gave  the  lie  to  every  declara- 
tion made  for  them  by  their  patrons  here,  still  the  ministry 
thought  it  not  too  late  for  further  temporizing  and  delay. 
Even  after  the  combination  at  Boston  they  would  not  suffer 
parliament  to  be  informed  of  the  real  state  of  things  in  that 
province.  They  endeavoured  to  conceal  the  most  atrocious 
circumstances,  and  what  they  could  not  conceal  they  justified. 
Mr.  Conway  *  since  last  December  has,  in  the  face  of  the 
House  of  Commons,  defended  the  resistance  of  the  colonies 
upon  what  he  called  revolution  principles ;  and  when  a  paper, 
printed  at  Boston,  was  offered  to  the  House,  as  containing 
matter  of  the  highest  importance  for  the  information  of  par- 
liament, the  ministry  would  not  suffer  it  to  be  read,  because 
they  knew  it  would  be  found  too  bad  to  be  passed  over. 

If  we  look  for  their  motives,  we  shall  find  them  such  as 
weak  and  interested  men  usually  act  upon.  They  were  weak 
enough  to  hope  that  the  crisis  of  Great  Britain  and  America 
would  be  reserved  for  their  successors  in  ofl&ce,  and  they  were 
determined  to  hazard  even  the  ruin  of  their  country,  rather 
than  furnish  the  man  t  whom  they  feared  and  hated  with  the 
melancholy  triumph  of  having  truly  foretold  the  consequences 
of  their  own  misconduct.  But  this,  such  as  it  is,  the  triumph 
of  a  heart  that  bleeds  at  every  vein,  they  cannot  deprive  him 
of.  They  dreaded  the  acknowledgment  of  his  superiority 
over  them,  and  the  loss  of  their  own  authority  and  credit, 
more  than  the  rebellion  of  near  half  the  empire  against  the 
supreme  legislature.     On  this  patriotic  principle  they  exerted 

*  Mr.  Conway  moved  the  repeal  of  Mr.  Grenville's  Stamp  Aet,  asxi  intro* 
duced  the  Declaratory  Ad. 
f  QtoTffe  GbvnTiUe. 

VOly.     II  O 


194      MISCELLANEOUS  LETTERS  ASCRIBED  TO  JUNIUS. 

their  utmost  efforts  to  defer  the  decision  of  this  great  natioiUL 
cause  till  the  last  possible  moment.  The  timidity,  weakness, 
and  distraction  of  government  at  home,  gave  spirits,  strength* 
and  union  to  the  colonies,  and  the  ministry  seemed  determined 
to  wait  for  a  declaration  of  war  with  our  natural  enemy,  heforo 
they  attempted  to  suppress  the  rebellion  of  our  natural 
subjects.  At  last,  however,  they  are  compelled  to  take  a 
resolution  which  ought  to  have  been  taken  many  months  ago, 
and  might  then  have  been  pursued  with  honour  to  themselves, 
and  safety  to  this  country.  How  they  will  support  it  is 
uncertain.  A  resolution  adopted  by  a  small  majority  in  a 
divided  council  can  be  but  little  depended  on.  It  must  want 
the  first  strength  of  union,  and  what  effect  can  we  hope  for 
even  from  a  vigorous  measure,  when  the  execution  of  it  is 
committed,  most  probably,  to  one  of  the  persons  who  have 
professed  themselves  the  patrons  of  lenient  moderate  measures, 
until  the  very  name  of  lenity  and  moderation  became  ridicu- 
lous ?  They  will  execute  by  halves ;  they  will  temporize  and 
look  out  for  expedients ;  they  will  increase  the  mischief;  they 
will  defer  the  stroke  until  we  are  actually  involved  in  a  war 
with  France ;  and  when  they  have  made  the  game  desperate, 
they  will  resign  their  places,  to  save  themselves,  if  possible, 
from  the  resentment  of  their  country. 

In  this  situation  I  am  rather  afflicted  than  surprised  at  the 
shock  which  public  credit  has  just  received.  The  weight  of 
the  funds  is  of  itself  sufficient  to  press  them  down.  How 
then  should  it  be  possible  for  them  to  stand  against  evils, 
which  separately  might  overturn  the  most  flourishing  state, 
and  which  are  fatally,  at  this  moment,  united  against  Great 
Britain :  the  rebellion  of  her  subjects ;  the  too  probable  ap- 
prehension of  a  foreign  war ;  and  a  weak  distracted  adminis- 
tration at  home.  Yet,  Sir,  I  hope  there  is  still  blood  enough 
in  our  veins  to  make  a  noble  stand  even  against  these  com- 
plicated mischiefs.  Far  from  despairing  of  the  republic,  I 
know  we  have  great  resources  left,  if  they  are  not  lost  or 
betrayed.  A  firm  united  administration,  with  the  uniform 
direction  of  one  man  of  wisdom  and  spirit,  may  yet  preserve 
the  state.  It  is  impossible  to  conceal  from  ourselves  that  we 
are  at  this  moment  on  the  brink  of  a  dreadful  precipice ;  the 
question  is,  whether  we  shall  still  submit  to  be  guided  by  the 


L.   L.   TO  THE    PUBLIC  ADVBBTIBEB.  195 

band  whicn  hath  driven  us  to  it,  or  whether  we  shall  follow  the 
patriot  voice  *  which  has  not  ceased  to  warn  us  of  our  dangers, 
and  which  would  still  declare  the  way  to  safety  and  to  honour 


LETTER  XXX. 

TO  THE   PBINTEB  OF  THE   PUBLIC   ADYEBTISEB. 

Snt,  August  5, 1768. 

Ak  unmerited  outrage  offered  to  a  great  or  a  good  man  natu- 
rally  excites  somp  emotions  of  resentment  even  in  hearts  that 
have  the  least  esteem  for  virtue.  At  particular  moments  the 
worst  of  men  forget  their  principles,  and  pay  to  superior 
worth  an  involuntary  tribute  of  sympathy  or  applause.  We 
ought  to  think  well  of  human  nature  when  we  see  how  fre« 
quently  the  most  profligate  minds  are  generous  without  re- 
flection. But  if  a  case  should  happen  wherein  a  character 
not  merely  of  private  virtue,  but  of  public  merit,  receives  an 
insult  equally  indecent  and  ungrateful,  this  common  concern 
is  increased  by  that  share  of  interest  which  every  man  claims 
to  himself  in  the  public  welfSare.  A  government  shameless  or 
ill-advised  enough  to  treat  with  disregard  the  obligation  due 
to  public  services,  not  only  sets  a  most  pernicious  example  to 
its  subjects,  but  does  a  flagrant  injury  to  society,  which  every 
member  of  it  ought  tb  resent.  Reflections  such  as  these 
crowded  upon  my  mind  the  moment  that  I  heard  that  the 
late  commander-in-chief  in  America  had  been  dismissed 
without  ceremony  from  his  government  of  Virginia.  1  was 
grieved  to  see  such  a  man  so  treated,  but  when  I  considered 
this  step  as  an  omen  of  the  real  resolution  of  the  ministry 
with  respect  to  America,  I  forgot,  as  he  himself  will  do,  the 
private  injury,  and  lamented  nothing  but  the  public  mis- 
fortune. At  a  time  when  the  most  backward  of  the  King  s 
servants  have  been  compelled  to  acknowledge  the  necessity  of 
\igorous  measures,  when  these  measures  are  held  out  to  the 
nation  with  a  declaratory  assurance  that  now  at  last  we  are 

*  Mr.  G.  Grenville's.    See  this  lubject  continned  in  Miicdlaneoiis  Letter- 
Now  81,  and  note,  p.  198. 

O  % 


]9((         MISCELLANEOUS  LETTEBS  ASCKIBED  TO  JOrNItTB 

determined,  the  resolution  to  deprive  Sir  Jeffeiy  Amheist  of 
his  post  in  America  cannot  but  be  receiyed  as  a  direct  con- 
tradiction to  all  those  professions.  If  they  had  sincerely 
meant  to  do  their  duty  to  their  country;  if  they  had  really 
adopted  measures  of  vigour,  and  wished  to  cany  them  into 
execution,  instead  of  depriving  him  of  his  post,  they  would 
have  solicited  him  to  return  to  America,  and  take  upon  him 
the  conduct  of  those  measures.  His  prudence  and  modera- 
tion are  as  well  known  as  his  spirit  and  firmness,  and  who 
will  dare  to  say  that  he  would  have  refused  an  employment 
which  the  service  of  his  King  and  country  called  upon  him  to 
accept?  He  went  to  America  in  circumstances  as  little 
favourable  as  the  present ;  he  met  an  enemy  at  all  times 
formidable,  and  at  that  juncture  strengthened  by  success. 
He  conquered  that  enemy,  and  united  the  dominion  of  tlie 
whole  continent  to  Great  Britain.  In  every  light  he  was  the 
man  to  have  been  chosen,  if  the  ministry  had  really  meant 
to  execute  their  own  resolution  with  vigour.  But  if  it  be  their 
design  to  surrender  every  point  to  America,  they  could  not 
have  acted  more  consistency  with  such  a  plan  than  by  dis- 
missing Sir  Jeffery  Amherst  from  his  post,  and  appointing 
Lord  Boutetort  to  succeed  him.  No  collusive  bargain  could 
have  been  made  with  the  former,  nor  any  base  unworthy 
compliances  expected  from  him.  He  had  honour  as  much  as 
any  man  to  lose,  nor  even  felt  the  necessity  of  repairing  a 
broken  fortune.  Had  he  been  entrusted  with  a  command 
upon  this  important  occasion,  he  would  have  executed  the 
declared,  not  the  secret  purpose  of  the  administration.  With 
such  a  character,  it  is  easy  to  see  how  unlit  he  was  to  be  trusted 
with  the  conduct  of  measures  destined  to  perish  at  their 
birth.  But,  although  he  might  not  be  entitled  to  the  con- 
fidence of  the  King*s  servants,  in  what  instance  has  he  de- 
served such  ungrateful  treatment  ?  Could  they  find  no  other 
man  to  mark  out  to  the  public  as  an  object  of  slight  and  dis- 
respect? Could  the  wantonness  of  their  power  find  no  other 
wQj  of  providing  for  a  needy  dependant  ?  Surely,  Sir,  the 
choice  was  at  least  injudicious.  Lord  Hillsborough  might 
«iave  found  some  more  honourable  method  of  distinguishing 
bis  entrance  into  administration ;  nor  do  I  think  it  a  very 
CbTourable  omen  to  Lor4  Poutetort,  that  his  patrons  have 


MR.   GBENVTLLE  AND   HIS  MEASURES.  197 

fixed  upon  Virginia  as  a  retreat  for  his  distresses.  Seven 
jears  are  too  many  to  spare  out  of  a  life  of  sixty,  to  say 
nothing  of  the  rarity  of  a  man's  returning  frqpi  that  country 
and  surviving  the  next  sessions. 

L.L. 


LETTER  XXXI. 

TO  THE   PRINTER  OF  THE   PUBLIC  ADVERTISER. 

Sib,  August  6, 1768. 

Whether  it  he  matter  of  honour  or  reproach,  it  is  at  least  a 
singular  circumstance,  that  whoever  is  hardy  enough  to  main- 
tain the  cause  of  Great  Britain  against  subjects  who  disown 
her  authority,  or  to  raise  his  voice  in  defence  of  the  laws  and 
constitution,  is  immediately  pointed  out  to  the  public  for  Mr. 
Grenville^s  friend.  From  such  language  one  would  think 
that  the  order  of  things  was  inverted,  and  that  conspiracy  had 
changed  its  nature.  Mr.  Grenville  and  his  friends  it  seems 
are  suspected  of  some  dangerous  designs,  not  to  destroy  but 
to  preserve  the  laws  and  constitution  of  their  country.  This 
is  certainly  a  reproach  of  the  latest  invention.  I  know  there 
ore  men  whose  characters  are  safe  against  suspicions  of  this 
sort,  and  who  form  their  friendships  upon  other  more  useful 
maxims.  But  whether  it  be  owing  to  the  weakness  of  his 
understanding  or  to  the  simplicity  of  his  heart,  that  he  pur- 
sues a  conduct  so  useful  to  himself  and  so  suspicious  to  th<« 
administration,  it  is  surely  a  pardonable  error,  and  what  an 
Englishman  may  yet  forgive.  It  is  true  he  professes  doc- 
trines which  would  be  treason  in  America,  but,  in  England  at 
least,  he  has  the  laws  of  his  side,  and  if  it  be  a  crime  to  sup- 
port the  supremacy  of  the  British  legislature,  the  Sovereign, 
the  Lords,  and  Commons  are  as  guilty  as  he  is.  The  ministry 
indeed  have  no  share  in  the  charge,  and  it  would  be  uncandid 
not  to  confess  that  their  regard  for  the  honour  and  interest  of 
this  country  is  upon  the  same  level  with  their  friendship  for 
Mr.  Grenville*. 

*  Some  speculators  have  been  thonghtlew  enough  to  conjecture  Mr.  George 
GrenTille  to  have  been  Junius.  Unluckily  for  this  hypothesis,  Mr.  Grenrille 
died  in  Novmnber.  1 770,  which  was  soon  after  Junius  began  to  write  under  thai 


198  inSCELLANEOUb   LETTERS   A3CBIBED   TO  JUNIUS. 

For  my  own  part,  whatever  your  correspondents  Moderator 
and  Tandsm  may  think  of  me,  I  shall  content  myself  with 
some  interior  feelings  which  I  fancy  they  are  not  mnch  ac- 
quainted with;  nor  will  I  perplex  them  with  a  language  they 
are  incapable  of  understanding.  Whether  I  am  determined  by 
motives  which  an. honest  man  might  profess,  or  by  such  as 
those  gentlemen  usually  act  upon,  is  a  point  that  will  not 
admit  of  demonstration.  I  shall  therefore  leave  their  prin- 
ciples out  of  the  question,  and  try  what  their  arguments 
amount  to. 

Moderator  and  I  are,  for  the  most  part,  agreed.  He  allows 
"  that  government  is  sunk  into  a  contemptible  state;  that 
their  measures  have  failed  of  success,  and  is  convinced  that 
if  the  reverse  had  been  practised,  the  mischief  had  been 
avoided."  What  conclusion  his  understanding  will  draw  from 
these  premises  I  do  not  know ;  but  I  think  9ie  most  violent 
enemy  of  the  present  administration  could  not  have  argued 
more  strongly  for  a  change  of  hands  and  a  change  of  measures. 

The  author  of  the  second  letter,  finding  nothing  that  will 
answer  his  purpose  in  the  present  state  of  things,  is  obliged 
to  carry  us  back  to  the  original  question  of  the  right  and  ex- 

■ignature.  Mr.  Grenville  was  a  respectable  man  and  statesman,  more  ex- 
emplary for,  official  routine  than  extraordinary  abilities,  and  had  p.iased 
through  all  the  great  offices,  from  that  of  treasurer  of  the  navy  in  1754  to 
that  of  prime  minister  in  1763.  Burke  describes  him  in  panegyrical  but  some- 
what  exaggerated  terms  in  his  speech  on  American  taxation  in  April,  1774. 
"  Undoubtedly  Mr.  Grenville  was  a  first-rate  figure  in  this  country.  With  a 
masculine  understanding,  and  a  stout  and  resolute  heart,  he  had  an  application 
undissipated  and  unwearied.  He  took  public  business  not  as  a  duty  which 
he  was  to  fulfil,  but  as  a  pleasure  he  was  to  enjoy ;  and  he  seemed  to  have 
no  delight  out  of  the  House,  except  in  such  things  as  some  way  related  to 
the  business  that  was  to  be  done  within  it.  If  he  was  ambitious,  I  will  say 
this  for  him,  his  ambition  was  of  a  noble  and  generous  strain.  It  was  to 
raise  himself,  not  by  the  low  pimping  politics  of  a  court,  but  to  win  his  way  to 
power  through  the  laborious  gradations  of  public  service,  and  to  secure  to 
himself  a  well-earned  rank  in  parliament  by  a  thorough  knowledge  of  its 
constitution  and  a  perfect  practice  in  all  its  business." — After  retiring  from 
the  premiership  in  176.5,  Mr.  Grenville  did  not  again  hold  office.  This 
accounts  for  the  little  knowledge  Junius  admits  he  had  of  him ;  but  he  coiik- 
cided  with  Mr.  Grenville  on  the  right  of  England  to  tax  the  Americans, 
dissenting  firom  the  metaphysical  distinction  drawn  by  Lord  Chatham  between 
the  right  of  the  mother  country  to  fl[ovem  but  not  to  tax  the  colonies.  No 
signature  is  attached  to  the  abovA  communication,  and,  judging  from  H 
pciitical  opinions,  it  may  have  emanatea  from  Junius. — Bic 


UB.    (JRENMLLE  AND   HIS   MEASURES.  199 

pediancy  of  taxing  America.  I  shall  not  enter  into  the 
:}ue8tion  of  right,  because  it  has  been  already  determined 
by  the  legislature,  to  which  an  Englishman  still  owes 
some  degree  of  submission.  For  the  matter  of  expediency, 
an  advocate  for  the  present  ministry  seems  to  me  to  arraign 
his  patrons  when  he  argues  against  it.  One  part  of  them 
uniformly  concurred  with  Mr.  GrenviUe  in  forming  the  Stamp 
Act,  and  in  opposing  the  repeal  of  it.  The  other,  to  serve  the 
purposes  of  party,  repealed  that  act,  yet  showed  by  their 
conduct  that  they  approved  of  the  equitable  principle  on 
which  it  was  founded,  that  America  should  contribute  a  little 
to  the  support  of  the  public  expense.  The  repeal  of  the 
Stamp  Act  has  been  followed  by  other  acts  more  ofifensive  to 
^he  colonies,  more  directly  exerting  the  right  of  taxation,  and 
which  will  hardly  be  executed  without  some  extraordinary 
eflforts  on  the  part  of  government.  Was  the  act  for  suspend- 
ing the  assembly  of  New  York  recommended  by  Mr.  Gren- 
viUe ?  Or  was  it  he  who  advised  the  duties  on  paper,  glass, 
&c.,  imported  into  the  colonies  ?  No,  Sir,  his  successors  have 
paid  him  the  highest  compliment  by  imitating  the  system 
which  they  had  affected  to  condemn ;  and  in  fact  they  have 
carried  his  principles  further  than  he  did,  or  probably  than  he 
would  have  carried  them.  But  it  is  the  natural  defect  of  a 
weak  divided  administration,  that  they  can  neither  resolve 
with  moderation,  nor  execute  with  firmness. 

As  to  the  questions  which  your  last  correspondent  puts  to 
me  with  a  sort  of  heat  and  petulance  not  very  decent,  one 
plain  answer  will,  I  believe,  be  sufficient.  If  the  pretensions 
of  the  colonies  had  not  been  abetted  by  something  worse  than 
a  faction  here,  the  Stamp  Act  would  have  executed  itself. 
Every  clause  of  it  was  so  full  and  explicit  that  it  wanted  no 
further  instruction ;  nor  was  it  of  that  nature  that  required  a 
military  hand  to  carry  it  into  execution.  For  the  truth  of 
this  answer  I  am  ready  to  appeal  even  to  the  Americans  them- 
selves. As  to  the  merit  of  having  foreseen  the  unavoidable 
consequences  of  an  inconsistent  irresolute  system  of  measures, 
I  shall  place  it  as  low  as  your  correspondent  can  desire. 
Even  he  might  have  foreseen  what  has  happened  without 
waiting  for  the  event.  Bu**  to  foretell  those  consequences ;  to 
ipeak  truth  to  the  nation:  to  warn  even  an  adversary  of  hij 


200  MISCELLANEOUS  LETTERS  ASCRIBED   TO  JTUHIUS. 

danger;  to  persevere  in  this  upright  manly  conduct,  is  indeed 
a  merit  of  another  sort,  and  reserved  for  other  virtues  *. 

Your  correspondent  confesses  that  Mr.  Grenville  is  still 
respectable ;  jet  he  warns  the  friends  of  that  gentleman  not 
to  provoke  him,  lest  he  should  tell  them  what  thej  may  not 
like  to  hear.  These  are  hut  words.  He  means  as  little  when  he 
threatens  as  when  he  condescends  to  applaud.  Let  us  meet 
upon  the  fair  ground  of  truth,  and  if  he  finds  one  vulnerable 
part  in  Mr.  Grenville*s  character,  let  him  fix  his  poisoned 
arrow  there. 

*  The  following  letter  firom  Mr.  Q.  GhrenTille  to  Mr.  Knox,  fomerij  under- 
secretary  of  state  to  Lord  HiHsboroogb,  is  extracted  firom  the  second  Tolnme 
of  a  small  work  published  bj  Mr.  Knox,  entitled  "Extra  Official  State 
Papers,"  and  is  here  copied  to  give  the  reader  an  idea  of  the  political  senti- 
ments  entertained  by  Mr.  Orenville  with  respect  to  America,  as  developed  by 
himself  in  his  private  correspondence  with  this  gentleman  : — 

**  Deab  Sir,  ''  Wottcw,  Angvst  28, 1768. 

*'  The  account  which  jon  gave  to  me  in  jonr  letter  of  the  23rd  of  this  month, 
of  the  late  transactions  at  Boston,  aeeuM  so  naton^  a  consequence  of  the  mea- 
sures taken  in  Oreat  Britain,  and  the  state  and  temp»  of  the  government 
here,  that  wbateTer  degree  of  concern  it  may  give  me,  I  cannot  feel  the  least 
surprise  at  it.  If  the  eyes  of  those  wbo  are  most  interested  in  this  most 
unhappy  situation  had  been  sooner  opened  to  the  most  obvious  truths,  many 
mischiefs  might  have  been  prevented;  if  the  authentic  proofs  which  they 
have  now  received  of  what  has  happened  is  not  sufficient  to  convince  them,  I 
will  venture  to  foretell  without  a  spirit  of  prophecy,  greater  ealamitiea  wUl^ 
when  it  is  too  late,  roiue  tkem  and  ike  vfhole  kif^dom  from  the  Utharpy,  as 
to  all  public  meantree,  ini»  vhieA  they  have  been  jAunped,  I  have  longjeared 
that  1M  conduei  holden  in  Great  Britain  wo%Ud  encourage  and  delude  the 
eubjects  of  America,  till  they  would  come  to  extremitiis  ef  ofM  kind,  which 
woiUd  too  probably  end  in  extremitie*  on  the  other  side.  I  may  appeal  to 
you,  as  a  private  mm  and  as  a  member  of  parliament,  to  my  public  declan- 
tions,  that  my  opinions  upon  this  subject  have  ever  been  uniiformly  the  same. 
They  will  still  continue  to  be  so  until  I  see  much  better  reasons  for  changing 
them  than  any  which  I  have  yet  heard.  What  prospect  there  can  now  he 
that  they  will  be  attended  with  success,  I  cannot  pretend  to  answer ;  but  il 
there  is  no  plan  formed  upon  the  sound  principles  of  this  constitution,  sup- 
ported both  by  firmness  and  temper,  I  can  answer  thskt  no  good  tnicceu,  in 
the  present  difficult  situation,  can  arise  from  one  desultory  measure  aftef 
another.  The  respect  and  aflbction  of  its  subjects  is  the  bask  on  which  every 
wise  government  must  be  founded;  but  if  that  foundati(»  has  been  once 
overturned,  it  is  not  the  work  of  a  day  to  temper  the  materials  so  as  to  unitt 
and  rebuild  them,  especially  if  the  workmen  shall  be  daily  changed,  and  each 
work  by  a  different  role  seoA  ^'oe  from  that  of  his  predecessoi. 

*^  I  am,  &C., 


LUCTUS  TO  THB  PUBLIC  ADVERTISER.  201 


LETTER  XXXII. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THB   PUBLIC  ADVEBTISEB. 

Sib,  Angust  10, 1768. 

Tdub  new  correspondent  Virginius  might  have  saved  himself 
the  trouhle  of  dating  his  letter  from  the  Carolina  coffee- 
house. We.  are  a  little  hotter  acquainted  than  he  imagines 
with  the  style  of  the  secretary  of  state's  office,  as  well  as  with 
the  facts  respecting  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst's  dismission.  When 
he  calls  Lord  Boutetort  the  best  of  men,  I  suppose  he  means 
the  best  of  courtiers.  If  bowing  low  and  carrying  the  sword 
of  state  constitute  merit  and  services,  I  confess  there  are 
few  men  to  whom  government  is  more  indebted  than  to  his 
Lordship.  As  to  those  insinuations  which  Virginius  calls 
malevolent,  it  would  have  answered  his  purpose  a  little  better 
if  he  could  have  proved  them  false.  Why  does  he  not  ? 
Because  they  are  not  only  true,  but  notoriously  true.  What 
say  you  to  the  copper  mines,  Virginius?  I  fancy  his  Lord 
ship  would  not  have  been  so  fond  of  residing  in  Virginia,  if 
he  could  have  continued  to  reside  here  either  with  safety  or 
convenience.  Reflections  on  characters  merely  private,  ought, 
I  own.  to  be  discouraged.  But  let  it  be  remembered  that  this 
courtier  might  have  lived  and  died  in  obscurity,  if  he  had  not 
forced  himself  into  public  notice  by  robbing  another  man  of 
sm  appointment,  expressly  given  him  in  reward  for  the  most 
honourable  national  services.  The  discontent  of  the  province 
of  Virginia  at  being  governed  by  a  lieutenant-governor  instead 
of  a  governor,  is  a  mere  fiction  trumped  up  by  Lord  Hillsbo- 
v'ough  and  his  secretary  to  serve  this  dirty  purpose ;  it  was 
never  heard  of  before,  and  if  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst  was  really 
desired  to  repair  to  his  government,  it  was  not  only  a  most 
scandalous  breach  of  conditions  with  him,  but  a  most  impu- 
dent mockery.  Lord  Hillsborough  knew  it  was  impossible  ne 
could  return  to  America  tx)  be  under  the  command  of  General 
Cxage,  fuid  that  therefore  he  might  put  the  alternative  to  him 
with  safety.  By  this  fiEirce  Lord  Hillsborough  thought  he 
could  throw  a  colour  upon  the  matter,  and  that  the  nation 
would  be  misled  by  it.  What  a  poor  contemptible  artifice 
Thus  it  usually  happens  with  bunglers.    They  cannot  evei 


S(M2  MISCELLANEOUS  LETTERS  ASGBTBED   TO  JUNTOS. 

oe  mischievous  with  dexterity,  nor  do  a  public  injury  without 
insulting  the  public  understanding. 

Luoin& 


LETTER  XXXIII. 

TO  THE   PRINTER  OF  THE   PUBLIC   ADTERTISEB. 

Sib,  August  19,  1768. 

The  greatest  part  of  my  property  having  been  invested  in 
the  funds,  I  could  not  help  paying  some  attention  to  rumours 
or  events  by  which  my  fortune  might  be  affected  ;  yet  I  never 
lay  in  wait  to  take  advantage  of  a  sudden  fluctuation,  much 
less  would  I  make  myself  a  bubble  to  bulls  and  bears,  or  a 
dupe  to  the  pernicious  arts  practised  in  the  alley.  I  thought 
a  prudent  man,  who  had  anything  to  lose,  and  really  meant 
to  do  the  best  for  himself  and  his  family,  ought  to  consider  ,of 
the  state  of  things  at  large,  of  the  prospect  before  him,  and  the 
probability  of  particular  events.  A  letter  which  appeared 
some  days  ago  in  the  Public  Advertiser  revived  many  serious 
reflections  of  this  sort  in  my  mind,  because  it  seemed  to 
be  written  with  candour  and  judgment.  The  effect  of  those 
reflections  was,  that  I  did  not  hesitate  to  alter  the  situa- 
tion of  my  property.  I  owe  my  thanks  to  that  writer  that  I 
am  safely  landed  *  from  a  troubled  ocean  of  fear  and  anxiety, 

*  The  frequent  use  of  this  term  by  the  late  Dr.  Chalmers  was  reckoned 
among  his  literary  peculiarities,  but  Atticus  appears  to  have  preceded  him. 
Since  the  first  volume  of  Letters  was  published,  a  correspondent  has  suggested 
a  mode  for  detecting  Junius  from  the  intimations  in  the  communication  oi 
Atticus. 

"  It  has  occurred  to  me,"  says  he,  "  that  it  is  worth  while  searching  the 
list  of  transferences  of  stock  between  the  date  of  the  letter  alluded  to  by 
Atticus  and  the  date  of  his  own.  Assuming  that  Junius  was  the  writer,  the 
insight  it  would  give  into  his  affairs  is  important." 

But  the  Junius  fixed  upon  in  the  Essay  is  not  likely  to  be  fiund  signalized 
by  any  such  weighty  transfers  of  stock  as  would  lead  to  his  identification. 
Secondly,  it  is  improbable  that  Atticus  was  Junius,  first,  because  the  shafts 
of  Junius  were  directed  more  at  persons  than  tJiings — disquisitions  on  fluc« 
tuations  in  the  funds,  commerce,  and  the  decline  of  the  empire,  the  £Eivourite 
themes  of  Atticus,  were  not  those  of  Junius.  A  third  objection  is  that  sug- 
gested by  the  Athencetimf  namely,  that  an  Atticus,  either  the  present  or 
some  other,  was  a  frequent  writer  in  the  Public  Advertiser  long  before 
and  after  Junius  was  known  to  be  a  contributor.  Finally,  it  may  be  added 
that  the  test  suggested  has  been  applied,  and  no  evidence  has  beett  found  in 
the  Bank  books  to  unmask  Junius. — Bo. 


1TT1CU8  TO  THE   PUBLIC   ADVERTISES  208 

on  Tf^hich  I  think  I  never  will  venture  my  fortune  and  my 
happiness  again.  Perhaps  it  may  not  be  useless  to  individuals 
to  see  the  motives  on  which  I  have  acted. 

In  the  first  place,  1  consider  this  country  as  in  a  situa* 
tion  the  like  of  which  it  never  experienced  before,  but  which 
the  greatest  empires  have  experienced  in  their  turn.  The 
successes  of  the  late  war  had  placed  us  at  the  highest  pin- 
nacle of  military  glory.  Every  external  circumstance  seemed 
to  contribute  to  our  prosperity ;  the  most  formidable  of  our 
enemies  were  reduced,  and  commerce  had  promised  to  in- 
crease With  the  extent  of  our  dominion.  But  at  this  point  I 
fear  we  met  with  our  ne  plus  ultra.  The  greatness  of  a  king- 
dom cannot  long  be  stationary.  That  of  Great  Britain  carried 
in  itself  an  interior  principle  of  wetikness  and  decay.  While 
the  war  continued,  our  superiority  at  sea  gave  us  an  exclusive 
commerce  with  the  richest  quarters  of  the  world,  and  supplied 
us  with  wealth  to  support  such  efforts  as.  no  nation  ever 
made  before.  But  when  the  conclusion  of  peace  had  restored 
our  rivals  to  the  enjoyment  of  their  former  trade,  the  very 
efforts  which  had  maintained  the  war  rendered  it  impossible 
for  us  to  meet  those  rivals  upon  equal  terms  in  foreign 
markets.  The  national  debt  had  risen  to  a  point  so  &r 
beyond  the  reach  of  economical  speculations  that  the  diminu- 
tion of  the  principal  almost  ceased  to  be  a  question,  and  the 
ministry  found  difficulty  enough  in  providing  funds  for  pay- 
ment of  the  interest.  Here  then  we  find  an  interior  principle 
of  decay,  the  operation  of  which  is  not  less  certain  than  fatal. 
The  increase  of  your  debt  requires  a  proportionate  increase  of 
trade,  at  the  same  time  that  it  not  only  prevents  that  increase, 
but  operates  in  the  contrary  direction.  A  newspaper  will  not 
admit  of  such  a  deduction,  or  I  would  undertake  to  demon- 
strate, that  all  the  profitable  part  of  our  foreign  trade  is  lost, 
and  that  in  what  remains  the  balance  is  considerably  against 
us.  But  the  fact  is  notorious.  The  situation  of  our  East- 
India  trade  is  so  far  altered  for  the  better,  that  we  do  not  send 
such  quantities  of  bullion  as  heretofore  to  China,  and  indeed 
we  have  it  not  to  send.  Tet  the  resources  of  this  trade  are  at  the 
best  but  precarious  ;  nor  is  the  balance  of  it  even  now  clearly 
in  our  favour.  A  single  defeat  in  India  (an  event  not  quite 
out  of  the  limits  of  possibility)  would  go  near  to  annibilate  the 
aompany.     But  it  was  in  the  colonies  that  our  best  and  suiest 


204  UTSCELLANEOUS   LETTERS   ASCRIBED   TO  JUKIU8 

hopes  were  founded.  Their  exclusive  commerce  would  hav« 
supported  our  home  manufactures  when  other  markets  failed, 
and  rewarded  us  in  some  measure  for  that  security  and  extent 
of  dominion  which  the  blood  and  treasure  of  this  country  had 
purchased  for  them.  Here  too  our  most  reasonable  expecta- 
tions are  disappointed.  Not  only  the  merchant  who  gives 
oredit  on  the  security  of  personal  good  faith  is  ruined  by  it, 
but,  in  a  public  view,  the  sum  of  the  debts  of  individuals  is 
held  out  in  terrorem,  to  awe  us  into  a  compliance  with  preten- 
sions which  shake  the  foundation  of  our  political  existence. 
We  shall  be  woefully  deceived  if  we  form  our  calculations  of 
the  real  state  of  trade  on  the  large  commissions,  long  credit, 
or  extensive  enterprises  of  particular  merchants.  The  com- 
mercial prosperity  of  a  nation  depends  upon  the  certainty  of 
the  return,  not  on  the  magnitude  of  the  venture.  As  things 
are  now  managed  in  the  city,  the  greatest  house  &lls  first,  and 
draws  with  it  the  ruin  of  a  multitude  of  little  ones.  Next  to 
Che  parties  immediately  concerned,  the  public  creditors  will  be 
the  first  to  feel  the  consequences  of  this  ruinous  system.  The 
funds  allotted  for  their  security  depend  chiefly  upon  the  pro- 
duce of  the  customs ;  these  depend  upon  your  trade,  and  it 
requires  no  prophet  to  foretell,  that  a  false  and  ruinous  system 
of  trade  cannot  long  be  maintained.  It  begins  with  private 
beggary,  and  ends  in  public  ruin.  I  do  not  pretend  to  say 
that  the  landholder  will  be  quite  at  his  ease,  when  public 
credit  is  shaken.  But  his  at  least  is  a  solid  security ;  the 
other  a  mere  bubble,  which  the  first  rude  breath  of  ill  fortune 
or  of  danger  may  reduce  to  nothing. 

I  wish  it  could  be  proved  that  any  one  circumstance  in 
this  representation  is  false  or  exaggerated.  On  the  other 
hand,  if  it  be  true,  the  concealment  of  a  moment  more  or  less 
signifies  nothing.  It  is  agreed  on  all  hands  that  we  are  in 
no  condition  to  meet  a  war.  Our  enemies  know  and  presume 
upon  it.  The  experience  of  many  centuries  sufficiently  proves 
that  their  natural  restlessness  will  not  long  permit  them  to 
observe  the  conditions  of  any  peace.  At  present  they  have 
other  additional  motives  to  draw  them  into  action.  The 
articles  of  the  last  peace  dishonoured  them  in  the  eyes  of 
Europe.  Necessity  alone  compelled  them  to  submit  to  it. 
As  long  as  the  necessity  subsists  the  peace  will  be  maintained. 
lu  the  mean  time,  they  hazard  such  strokes  as  would  be  a  jusl 


ATTICU8  TO  THE  PUBTJO  ADT1EIITI9ER.  205 

foundation  of  a  war,  if  we  had  strength  or  spirits  to  renew  it. 
Dunkirk  remains  undemolished,  and  Corsica*  is  added  to 
the  dominion  of  France.  They  know  the  miserable  state  of 
our  finances,  the  distraction  and  weakness  of  our  govem- 
ment,  and  above  all,  the  alarming  differences  which  threaten 
a  rupture  with  our  colonies.  To  suppose  that  they  will  not 
take  advantage  of  these  circumstances,  is  supposing  that  a  few 
years  have  changed  the  stamina  of  a  French  constitution.  On 
the  other  hand,  to  say  that  they  are  as  little  in  a  condition 
to  make  war  as  ourselves  is  mere  trifling.  Their  enterprises 
prove  the  contrary.  Their  finances  are  upon  a  much  better 
footing  than  ours,  and  at  the  worst,  they  have  a  remedy,  which 
a  British  parliament  will  never  make  use  of  but  in  the  last 
extremity.  The  French  apply  it  without  scruple,  and,  as  far 
as  I  can  observe,  without  any  bad  effect  to  themselves.  In 
short,  they  consider  cur  weakness  more  than  their  own 
strength,  in  adherence  to  their  own  policy,  que  lafoiblesse  de 
Vennemifait  notre  projpre  force. 

A  prudent  man,  whose  property  is  in  the  funds,  would  do 
well  to  consider  the  truth  of  this  representation.  What 
security  has  he,  when  the  slightest  rumour  of  bad  news  from 
America  robs  him  of  four  or  five  per  cent,  upon  his  capital; 
when  worse  news  from  that  quarter  is  expected  every  hour, 
and  when  the  expectation  of  a  foreign  war  is  founded  on  &cta 
and  reasoning  strong  enough  to  constitute  the  clearest  moral 
certainty?  To  say  that  public  credit  has  hitherto  passed 
safely  trough  the  fiery  trial  of  war  and  rebellion,  proves 
nothing.  No  conclusion  can  be  drawn  from  a  debt  of  forty-six 
niillions,  at  which  it  stood  in  1740,  to  the  present  debt  of  one 
aundred  and  forty  millions.  At  that  time  our  resources  were 
oardly  known,  at  this  period  they  are  known  and  exhausted. 
We  are  arrived  at  that  point  when  new  taxes  either  pro- 
iuce  nothing,  or  defeat  the  old  ones,  and  when  new  duties 
3nly  operate  as  a  prohibition ;  yet  these  are  the  times,  Sir, 
when  every  ignorant  boy  thinks  himself  fit  to  be  a  minister  + 
Instead  of  attendance  to  objects  of  national  importance,  our 
worthy  governors  are  contented  to  divide  their  time  between 
private  pleasures  and  ministerial  intrigues.    Their  activity  is 

*  See  Junius,  Letters  3  and  12,  vol.  i.,  with  the  notes. 

f  The  Duke  of  Grafton  was  First  Lord  of  the  Treasury  at  tnis  penod 


M6  kJSCELLAHEOUS   LETTEB8  ASCRIBED   TO  JUNIUS. 

jost  equal  to  the  persecution  of  a  prisoner  in  the  Eing*s  Bench 
[Wilkes] » and  to  the  honourable  struggle  of  providing  for  their 
dependants.  If  there  be  a  good  man  in  tiie  Eing*s  service, 
they  dismiss  him  of  coarse ;  and  when  bad  news  arrives,  in- 
stead of  uniting  to  consider  of  a  remedy,  their  time  is  spent  in 
accusing  and  reviling  one  another.  Thus  the  debate  concludes 
in  some  half  misbegotten  measure,  which  is  left  to  execute 
itself.  Away  they  go:  one  retires  to  his  country-house; 
another  is  engaged  at  a  horse-race  ;  a  third  has  an  appoint* 
ment  with  a  prostitute ;  and  as  to  their  country,  they  leave 
her,  like  a  cast-off  mistress,  to  perish  under  the  diseases  they 
have  given  her. 

ATTICUa 


LETTER  XXXIV. 


TO  THB   PBINTEB  OF  THE   FUBUO   ADVEBTISEB. 

SiBy  August  28, 1768. 

AiciDST  the  general  mdignation  which  has  been  excited  by  the 
marked  affront  lately  put  upon  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst,  it  is  odd 
to  find  people  puzzling  themselves  about  the  motives  which 
have  actuated  administration  in  this  extraordinary  procedure 
Nothing  is  more  short  and  easy  than  the  solution  of  this 
affected  difl&culty.  They  were  ordered  to  act  in  this  manner. 
The  public  knows  and  can  know  no  other  reason.  The 
ministry  know  and  desire  to  know  no  other  reason.  They 
have  not  the  slightest  quarrel  with  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst, 
■f  hey  have  not  the  most  trivial  regard  for  Lord  Boutetort. 
Some  of  them  are  known  even  to  hate  his  Lordship ;  the  rest 
are  scarcely  acquainted  with  him ;  but  they  have  received  the 
order,  and  that  is  enough  for  them.  Their  whole  political 
system  is  wrapped  up  in  one  short  maxim — 

'*  My  author  and  disposer/  what  thou  bidd'st 
Unargued  I  obeyl" 

In  this  lesson  they  are  perfect  to  a  miracle ;  and  the  signal 
proof  they  have  just  given  of  their  daring  and  determined 
servility  shows  them  altogether  worthy  of  that  confidence 
which  the  favourite  so  wisely  reposed  in  them  (during  his 


TALEBIUS  TO  THE   PUBLIO  ADYERTISEB.  201 

pleasure),  the  depositaries  of  his  intentions,  and  the  trustees 
of  his  power. 

But,  although  it  he  in  vain  to  seek  for  any  higher  principle 
than  hlind  obedience  in  the  formal  and  exectUive  members 
of  the  ministry,  it  is  worth  while  to  examine  a  little  more 
minutely  the  motives  which  might  actuate  in  this  affair  the 
secret  but  deliberative  and  guiding  part  of  administration. 

Can  we  believe  from  the  monstrousness,  or  can  we  doubt 
from  the  notoriety,  of  the  fact,  that  the  political  principles 
held  by  the  present  governor  of  Virginia  during  the  greatest 
part  of  his  life,  and  avowed,  almost  without  a  mask,  could  be 
his  sole  recommendation  to  that  employment?  Can  we 
believe  that  these  principles  constitute  such  a  transcendent 
degree  of  merit  as  makes  it  necessary  to  reward  its  possessor 
at  the  expense  of  the  national  honour,  gratitude,  and  safety  ? 
Such  merit  must  be  served  in  any  way,  and  at  any  price.  A 
peerage^  which  every  one  knows  could  not  be  had  without  the 
royal  countenance,  was  not  sufficient.  It  was  too  little  that 
he  was  put  into  an  honourable  employment  near  the  person  of 
his  sovereign.  After  an  unsuccessfid  attempt  to  reward  him 
further  by  a  violation  of  our  laws  in  an  illegal  patent,  he  is 
now  to.  be  provided  for  by  the  ruin  of  our  affairs  in  a  critical 
and  important  government. 

As  a  part  of  this  system,  and  in  order  to  give  it  a  due 
roundness  and  relief,  it  was  thought  proper  not  only  to  affront 
living  merit,  but  to  insult  and  trample  upon  the  sacred  ashes 
of  the  dead.  It  was  not  forgot  under  whose  patronage  Sir 
Jeffery  Amherst  first  appeared  in  the  world.  It  was  not 
forgot  that  he  was  one  of  the  many  public  benefits  derived  to 
this  country  from  that  great  school  of  military  knowledge  and 
loyal  sentiments,  the  family  of  the  late  Duke  of  Cumberland. 
Here  was  a  glorious  opportunity  of  cherishing  a  true  friend  to 
despotism,  and  at  the  same  time  of  insulting  the  memory  of 
him  who  had  been  the  heavy  scourge,  and  (it  was  once  hoped) 
the  final  destroyer  of  that  cause.  This  opportunity  was  not 
lost. 

To  return :  I  have  said  that  the  justly  obnoxious  principles 
at  which  I  have  hinted,  constitute,  or  seem  at  least  to  consti- 
tute, the  sole  merit  of  the  new  governor  If  the  friends  of 
the  ministry  can  discover  any  other,  they  would  be  very  kind 
to  mention  them.     The  public  looks  upon  this  transaction  in 


908         MISCELLANEOUS  LETTERS  ASCRIBED  TO  JUKftTS. 

a  very  serious  light.  Nothing  but  the  strongest  conTictioii 
that  the  very  salvation  of  America  depends  upon  the  abilities 
of  Lord  Boutetort  can  reconcile  them  to  the  s^&ont  which  has 
been  put  upon  Sir  Jefifery  Amherst. 

They  derive  no  consolation  from  being  told  that  this  men* 
torious  commander  had  received  a  pre\ious  intimation  to 
repair  to  his  government,  with  which  he  showed  himself 
unwilling  to  comply.  They  are  as  dissatisfied  as  ever ;  first, 
because  the  fsuct  itself,  standing  upon  no  higher  authority  than 
ministerial  assertion,  will  be  disputed.  Falsehood  is  a  servile 
vice ;  and  to  the  imputation  of  that  vice  people  in  a  slavish 
condition,  whether  low  or  high  (for  servitude,  as  well  as  hell, 
has  its  ranks  and  dignities),  will  always  be  subject,  especially 
if  ministers  are  known  to  have  found  the  dexterous  art  of 
splitting  themselves,  and  possessing  one  character  in  which  to 
promise,  and  another  in  which  to  act  *. 

But  with  all  the  advantage  of  their  supple  habits,  and  of 
their  double  characters,  will  they  venture  to  assert,  that  the 
arrangement  in  favour  of  Lord  Boutetort  was  not  determined 
upon  before  they  had  consulted  Sir  Jefifery  Amherst  concern- 
ing a  residence  in  Virginia?  In  the  next  place,  did  they 
not  know  that  his  residence  in  the  character  of  governor 
in  America,  where  he  had  before  commanded  in  chief,  was  a 
thing  incompatible  with  all  the  ideas  entertained  by  military 
men  concerning  rank  and  precedence?  And  if  so,  was  not 
the  order  for  residence  given  (if  it  was  given)  that  it  might  be 
disobeyed?  Is  it  not  a  heavy  aggravation,  instead  of  the 
least  excuse,  for  their  offence  ? 

Lastly,  the  public  would  be  glad  to  know  how  it  comes  that 
this  grand  ministerial  reformation  was  taken  up  in  this  single 
instance ;  it  made  no  part  of  a  general  arrangement.  If  it 
were  done  in  consideration  of  the  colonies,  let  me  ask, 
whether  the  people  of  Virginia  have  lately  complained  of  the 
absence  of  their  governor,  under  which  they  have  acquiesced 
upwards  of  fifty  years?  If  it  was  done  on  the  part  of  Great 
Britain,  af^ain  let  me  inquire  whether  the  lieutenant- 
governors,  who  have  acted  during  those  fifty  years,  have 
wanted  authority,  knowledge,  or  capacity?  If  they  did,  in 
what  manner  is  the  defect  supplied  by  the  new  appointment? 
Is  thd  new  governor  invested  ^ith  any  larger  powers  than  th€ 
*  See  Mi8ceU6?iefXB&  I  '^tter.  No.  21.  anU. 


VALERtUS   ro   FHE  PUBLIC   AD^iSBTISBB.  309 

late  lieutenant-governors  ?  Or  is  he  endaed  with  a  greater 
degree  of  experience,  knowledge,  or  sagacity  for  the  exercise 
of  those  powers  ?  No,  no ;  the  manner  of  filling  the  yacancy 
made  hy  the  removal  of  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst  sets  in  the  hroad 
glare  of  daylight  the  true  reasons  for  making  it;  it  was  not 
done  to  reform  a  public  abuse,  but  to  accommodate  a  private 
job ;  it  was  not  Virginia  that  wanted  a  governor,  but  a  court 
favourite  that  wanted  the  salarjr. 

I  cannot  help  observing,  in  the  ministerial  writings  with 
which  the  papers  have  been  lately  filled,  that  much  scurrilous 
abuse  has  been  thrown  out  against  the  Whig  party  and  Whig 
principles.  Permit  me  to  congratulate  the  ministers  on  this 
well-chosen  topic :  the  defence  is  worthy  of  the  cause.  They 
tell  us,  that  all  party  distinctions  ought  to  be  done  away,  and 
that  men  of  all  kinds  ought  to  have  an  equal  share  in  public 
employment.  This  notion,  taken  with  due  corrections,  has 
some  sense,  but  in  their  application  much  absurdity.  No  man 
would  prevent  the  public  from  being  served  by  the  abilities  of 
any  person,  because  he  might  have  the  misfortune  in  some 
time  of  his  life  to  be  mistaken  in  his  political  opinions  or 
connections.  But  every  Whig  thinks  it  fair,  that  persons 
under  such  circumstances  shomd  be  obliged  to  produce  some 
other  merit  besides  those  mistakes ;  and  l^t  they  should  give 
some  other  proofs  of  their  conversion  to  the  principles  of  our 
happy  establishment,  than  their  necessity,  or  their  desire  of 
partaking  in  the  emoluments  which  it  has  to  bestow. 

This  surely  is  the  sentiment  and  language  of  candour  and 
moderation.  This  ought  to  be  the  inviolable  rule  where 
the  question  is  concerning  offices  of  trust,  and  which  require 
weight  and  ability  for  their  execution.  When  the  question 
is  concerning  the  mere  graces  of  the  crown,  the  rule  is  to 
become  even  more  severe ;  and  every  lover  of  the  constitution 
must  think  it  a  crime  hardly  less  than  treason  in  those 
who  shall  advise  a  court  to  discountenance  the  families  which 
have  promoted  the  revolution,  and  at  the  same  time  to  load 
with  its  favours  those  who  (reconciled  by  profit,  not  by 
opinion)  have  ever  been  the  declared  enemies  both  of  the  re- 
volution and  of  every  benefit  we  derive  from  that  happy 
event     You  may  hear  again  from 

Tour  humble  Servant, 

YALBSIUS. 

VOL.  U.  P 


210  MIBOELLAMROUS   LKTTEBS  ASCRIBED  TO  JUKIUS. 

LETTER  XXXV. 

TO  THE   EABL  OF  HILLSBOBOUOH. 

Mt  Lobo,  August  29, 1768. 

The  honourable  lead  you  have  taken  in  the  oSeaxs  of  Ameri:4i 
hath  drawn  upon  you  the  whole  attention  of  the  pablic.  Tou 
declared  yourself  the  single  minister  for  that  country,  and  it 
was  very  proper  you  shodd  convince  the  world  you  were  so, 
by  marking  your  outset  with  a  coup  d'iclat.  The  dismission 
of  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst  has  given  a  perfect  establishment  to 
your  authority,  and  I  presume  you  will  not  think  it  necessaxj 
or  useful  to  hazard  strokes  of  this  sort  hereafter.  It  will  be 
advisable  at  least  to  wait  until  this  affiur  is  forgotten,  and,  if 
you  continue  in  office  till  that  happens,  you  will  surely  be 
long  enough  a  minister  to  satisfy  all  your  ambition. 

The  world  attributes  to  your  Liordship  the  entire  honour 
of  Sir  Jefifery  Amherst^s  dismission,  because  there  is  no  other 
person  in  the  cabinet  who  could  be  supposed  to  have  a  wish 
or  motive  to  give  such  advice  to  the  crown.  The  Duke  of 
Grafton  and  the  Chancellor  were  once  Lord  Chatham's 
friends.  However'  their  views  may  now  be  altered,  they 
must  know  it  would  disgrace  them  in  the  eyes  of  the  public, 
to  offer  an  unprovoked  outrage  to  a  man  whose  conduct  and 
execution  had  contributed  not  a  little  to  their  patron's  glory. 

The  Duke  of  Bedford  and  his  friends  have  uniformly  held 
forth  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst  as  the  first  military  man  in  this 
country;  they  have  quoted  him  on  all  occasions  when  mili- 
tary knowledge  was  in  question,  and  even  been  lavish  in  his 
praise.  Besides,  they  openly  disclaim  any  share  in  this  mesr 
sure,  and  they  are  believed. 

The  Earl  of  Shelbume  usually  finds  himself  in  opposition, 
therefore  is  not  too  often  consulted.  In  this  instance  he  oer 
tainly  did  not  concur  with  the  majority.  He  still  is,  or  pre- 
tends to  be,  attached  to  Lord  Chatham,  and  I  fancy  he  is  not 
yet  so  cordially  reconciled  to  the  loss  of  the  American  de- 
partment as  to  dishonour  himself  merely  to  oblige  your 
Lordship. 

You  will  not  venture  to  insinuate  that  Sir  Jeffeiy  Amherst 
was  dismissed  by  the  advice  of  Lord  Granby  or  Sir  Edward 
Hawke.  Military  men  have  a  sense  of  honour  which  your 
I/>rdship  has  no  notion  of.     They  feel  for  a  gallant  officer 


LUCIUS  TO  THE    EABL  OP  HILLSBOROUGH.  211 

who  had  his  full  share  in  the  toils  and  honour,  and  had  some 
right  to  a  share  in  the  profi  ts  of  the  war.  They  feel  for  the 
army  and  the  navy.  Lord  Granby  himself  has  some  emolur 
ments  besides  his  power,  and  Sir  Edward  Hawke  has  his  pen- 
sion. Nobly  earned  I  confess,  but  not  better  deserved  than 
by  the  labours  which  conquered  America  in  America.  Be- 
sides, my  Lord,  the  commander-in-chief  is  the  patron  of  the 
army.  It  was  a  common  cause  which  he  could  not  desert 
without  in&my  and  reproach.  Lord  Granby  is  not  a  man  to 
take  his  tone  from  any  minister.  Where  his  honour  is  con- 
cerned, he  scorns  to  adopt  an  humble  ministerial  language , 
he  never  would  say,  that  indeed  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst  wcu 
rather  unreasonable,  that  his  terms  were  exorHtant,  that  he 
had  stiU  two  regiments  left,  and  might  well  be  contented.  This 
is  a  language  it  is  impossible  he  should  hold,  while  he  himself 
is  master-general  of  the  ordnance,  colonel  of  the  blues,  and 
commander-in-chief,  with  a  whole  £simily  upon  the  staff.  He 
knows  the  value,  and  could  not  but  be  sensible  of  the  loss,  of 
those  honourable  rewards  which  his  distinguished  capacity, 
his  care  of  the  public  money,  and  his  able  conduct  in  Ger- 
many had  justly  entitled  him  to. 

I  think  I  have  now  named  all  the  cabinet  but  the  Earl  of 
Chatham. 

His  infirmities  have  forced  him  into  a  retirement,  where  I 
presume  he  is  ready  to  suffer,  with  a  sullen  submission,  every 
insult  and  disgrace  that  can  be  heaped  upon  a  miserable,  de- 
crepid,  worn  out  old  man  *,  But  it  is  impossible  he  should 
be  so  far  active  in  his  own  dishonour  as  to  advise  the  taking 
away  an  employment  given  as  a  reward  for  the  first  military 
success  that  distinguished  his  entrance  into  administration. 
He  is  indeed  a  compound  of  contradictions ;  but  his  letter  to 
Sir  Jeffery  Amherst  stands  upon  record,  and  is  not  to  be  ex- 
plained away.  Tou  know,  my  Lord,  that  Mr.  Pitt  therein 
assured  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst,  that  the  government  of  Virginia 
was  given  him  merely  as  a  reward,  and  solemnly  pledged  the 
royal  faith  that  his  residence  should  never  be  required.  Lost 
as  he  is,  he  would  not  dare  to  contradict  this  letter.     If  he 

*  Hit  Lordship  was  less  afflicted  by  age  than  by  hereditary  gont  He  waa 
pnbieqiiently  compelled  to  retire  from  his  nominal  premiership.  In  the  qnieC 
of  nnofficiaf  life  he  recovered,  and  soon  reappear^,  like  a  giart  rcfreshad* 
M  the  leader  of  the  opposition.— Sd. 


21  fl         MISCELLANEOUS   TJCTTERS   ASCBI6ED   TO  JUKIXTB. 

did.  it  would  be  something  more  than  madness.    The  disordef 
must  have  quitted  his  head  and  fixed  itself  in  his  heart. 

The  business  is  now  reduced  to  a  point :  either  your  Lord- 
ship advised  this  measure,  or  it  happened  by  accident  You 
must  suffer  the  whole  reproach,  for  you  are  entitled  to  all  the 
honour  of  it.  What  then  is  apparently  the  fact  ?  One  of  your 
cringing,  bowing,  fawning,  sword-bearing  brother  courtiers* 
ruins  himself  by  an  enterprise  f,  which  would  have  ruined 
thousands  if  it  had  succeeded.  It  becomes  necessary  to  send 
him  abroad.  Sir  Jeifery  Amherst  is  one  of  the  mildest  and 
most  moderate  of  men ;  ergo,  such  a  man  will  bear  anything. 
His  government  will  be  a  handsome  provision  for  Boutetort, 
and  if  he  frets — why,  he  may  have  a  pension.  Your  emis- 
saries lose  their  labour,  when  they  talk  with  so  much  abhor- 
rence of  sinecures,  non-residence,  and  the  necessity  of  tho 
King's  service.  You  are  conscious,  my  Lord,  that  these  are 
pompous  words  without  a  shadow  of  meaning.  The  whole 
nation  is  convinced  that  the  fact  is  such  as  I  have  stated  it. 
But  to  make  it  a  little  plainer,  I  shall  ask  your  Lordship  a 
few  questions,  to  which  the  public  will  expect,  and  your  repu- 
tation, if  you  have  any  regard  for  it,  demands,  that  you  should 
give  an  immediate  and  strict  answer. 

1.  When  the  government  of  Virginia  was  offered  to  Sir 
Jeffery  Amherst,  did  he  not  reply,  mat  his  military  employ 
ments  took  up  all  his  time,  and  that  he  could  not  accept  the 
government  if  residence  were  expected  ? 

2.  Did  not  Mr.  Pitt,  then  secretary  of  state,  assure  him  in 
the  King's  name,  that  it  was  meant  only  as  a  mark  of  his 
Majesty's  feLvour,  and  that  his  residence  would  never  be  ex- 
pected ? 

3.  Has  there  ever  been  any  further  mark  of  favour  con- 
ferred upon  this  gentleman  for  all  those  important  services 
which  succeeded  t^e  conquest  of  Cape  Breton  ? 

But  now  for  questions  of  a  later  date. 

*  Loid  Boutetort,  lately  Colonel  Berkeley,  M.P.  for  Gloucestershire,  and 
groom  of  the  bedchamber.  He  acted  as  second  to  Lord  Talbot  in  his  rMica- 
lons  dnel  with  Wilkes  at  Bagshot  According  to  the  aocouit  of  tike  affiur 
given  by  Wilkes  in  his  Correspondencef  each  of  the  principals  discharged  a 
pistol  in  "  exact  time."  Wilkes  then  ran  up  to  Talbot,  embraced,  and  retired 
with  him  to  the  Red  Lion  to  discourse  of  their  feat  over  a  bottle  of  dant. — l&D, 

•f  Alluding  to  the  Warmly  Company,  for  converting  copper  into  bnas,  el 
which  Lord  Boutetort  was  the  head. 


gtj:opha6  to  the  public  adtebtiseb.  1213 

1.  Was  not  Lord  Boutetort's  appointment  absolutely  fixed 
on  or  before  Sunday  the  31st  of  July? 

2.  Had  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst  the  least  intimation  of  the 
measure  before  Thursday  the  4th  of  August  ? 

8.  Was  it  not  then  mentioned  to  him  in  general  terms,  as 
a  measure  merely  in  contemplation,  without  the  most  distant 
hint  that  Lord  Boutettirt,  or  any  other  person,  was  actually  in 
possession  of  his  government. 

4.  Did  not  Lord  Boutetort  kiss  hands  the  next  day,  that  is, 
on  Friday  the  5  th  of  August  ? 

5.  Did  you  not  dare  to  tell  your  sovereign  that  Sir  Jeffery 
Amherst  was  perfectly  satisfied,  when  you  knew  your  treat- 
ment of  him  was  such  as  the  vilest  peasant  could  not  have 
submitted  to  without  resentment  ? 

Finally,  my  Lord,  is  it  not  a  fact,  that  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst, 
having  been  called  upon  some  time  ago  to  give  his  opinion 
upon  a  measure  of  the  highest  importance  in  America,  gave 
it  directly  against  a  favourite  scheme  of  your  Lordship ;  and 
is  not  this  the  real  cause  of  all  your  antipathy  to  him  ?  Your 
heart  tells  you  that  it  is. 

Now,  my  Lord,  you  have  voluntarily  embarked  in  a  most 
odious,  perhaps  it  may  prove  to  you  a  most  dangerous,  busi- 
ness. Your  Pylades  will  sneak  away  to  his  government ;  but 
you  must  stand  the  brunt  of  it  here.  For  the  questions  which 
I  have  proposed  to  you,  I  must  tell  you  plainly,  that  they 
mtLSt  and  shall  be  answered. 

You  may  affect  to  take  no  notice  of  them,  perhaps,  and  tell 
us  you  treat  them  with  the  contempt  they  deserve.  Such  an 
expedient  may  be  wise  and  spirited  enough  when  applied  to  a 
declaration  of  rebellion  on  the  part  of  the  colonies,  and  God 
knows  it  has  succeeded  admirably.  But  it  shall  not  avail  you 
here. 

Num  negare  audesl    Quid  tacesi    Convincam  si  negas. 

LUCIUS. 


LETTER  XXXVI. 

TO   THE   PBINTEB   OF  THE   PUBLIC   ADYEBTISEB. 

Sir,  August  80, 1768. 

I  SHALL  not  pretend  to  enter  into  the  merits  of  Sir  Jeffery 
Amherst's  dismission  from  his  government  of  Virginia.  Every- 
body knows  he  deserves  a  great  deal  of  the  public;  aid  i( 


214         MISCELTANEOUS   IJCTTERS  ASCRIBED   TO  JUNIXTS. 

i^hat  I  have  heard  be  true,  even  the  present  administration 
do  not  refuse  it  him.  But  there  are  a  number  of  busj  in- 
cendiaries, who  use  every  means  to  poison  the  minds  of  the 
fifood  people  of  England,  and  to  abuse  those  iii  power,  whoever 
they  are.  These  neither  inquire  into  the  truth  of  the  matter, 
nor  do  they  fail  to  show  the  most  disagreeable  view  of  every 
action  of  the  ministry.  An  impudent  varlet,  T.  Z.,  in  this 
day's  paper,  talks  of  forty  or  fifty  lives  lost  in  St.  George  s 
fields.  When  was  it  ?  Others  have  heaped  together  a  parcel 
of  ill-natured  lies,  and  given  it  the  name  of  an  account  of  the 
dismission  of  Sir  Jefifery  Amherst. 

The  particulars  of  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst  s  dismission,  I  am 
told,  are  as  follow :  for  very  urgent  reasons  it  had  been  de- 
termined the  govemor-general  of  every  province  in  America 
should  reside.  Upon  which  Lord  Hillsborough  wrote  a  letter 
to  Sir  Jefifery,  acquainting  him  of  this  resolution  After  mak- 
ing very  honourable  mention  of  his  service  in  America,  how 
much  his  country  was  obliged  to  him  for  that  activity,  steadi- 
ness, and  courage,  which  so  eminently  distinguished  the  com- 
mander, and  which  from  his  example  diffused  itself  through 
the  whole  army,  by  which  means  the  British  arms  were 
crowned  with  success,  and  the  war  so  happily  concluded  in 
that  part  of  the  world,  he  mentioned  the  very  high  opinion 
his  Majesty  had  of  him  both  as  a  man  and  as  a  soldier,  and 
how  much  it  would  be  to  his  satisfaction,  was  it  suitable  to  Sir 
Jefifery  s  inclinations  and  circumstances,  to  go  to  Virginia  and 
take  upon  him  the  supreme  command  in  that  province :  but 
if  it  was  not  convenient,  he  might  depend  on  it,  that  his 
Majesty  would  take  the  earliest  opportunity  of  doing  justice 
to  his  merits,  by  making  him  a  recompense  equivalent  at  least 
to  the  loss  of  his  government. 

This  letter  was  scarce  finished  when  Sir  Jefifery  Amherst 
called  at  Lord  Hillsborough's  on  some  other  business.  His 
Lordship  took  that  opportunity  to  explain  the  intentions  of 
administration  by  such  a  measure,  gave  him  the  letter,  and 
Sir  Jefifery  seemed  to  be  convinced  of  the  necessity  of  the 
arrangement,  acquiesced  in  the  proposals  made  to  him,  and 
went  away  to  all  appearance  well  satisfied. 

If  it  was  next  day  or  not,  I  know  not,  but  Sir  Jefifery  very 
soon  after  this  demanded  an  audience  of  his  Majesty,  and  re- 
signed the  command  of  his  regiments. 

Tliis  not  being  accepted  of,  and  the  ministry  willing  U 


CLE01HA8  TO  THE  PUBLIC  ADVEBTIBEB.  215 

fteep  such  a  man  in  the  service,  and  not  wishing  to  give  cause 
for  his  resignation,  endeavoured  to  reason  with  him;  upon 
which  he  (Sir  JeflFery  Amherst)  delivered  or  sent  to  the  Duke 
of  Grafton  the  following  articles  of  accommodation. 

1.  A  British  peerage  to  himself,  and  failing  heirs  of  his 
body,  to  descend  to  his  brother  the  colonel. 

S.  A  lecompense  equivalent  to  the  loss  of  his  govem« 
xnent. 

8.  An  exclusive  right  of  working  the  coal  mines  at  Louis- 
bourg  to  him  and  his  heirs  for  ever. 

4.  A  grant  of  lands  in  America  to  a  certain  extent. 

5.  And  in  case  it  should  be  judged  expedient  to  create 
American  peers,  that  he  should  have  the  pre-eminence. 

The  Duke  of  Grafton,  on  receiving  this,  begged  to  see  Sir 
JeflFery,  who  sent  him  word,  if  the  interview  was  intended  to 
induce  him  to  lower  his  demands,  it  was  totally  unnecessary. 
His  Grace  then  went  to  him,  and  gave  him  the  following 
answers. 

1.  British  peerages  were  generally  given  to  such  whose 
opulent  fortunes  enables  them  to  support  that  high  dignity 
This  reason  he  apprehended  Sir  Jefifery  could  not  plead. 

d.  It  always  had  been  his  Majesty's  intentions  to  make  him 
a  recompense  equivalent  to  his  government. 

8.  Reasons  political  and  commercial  forbade  the  working  of 
the  American  coal  mines  at  all. 

4.  He  might  have  the  grant  of  lands  in  America  when^ 
where,  and  to  what  extent  he  pleased ;  but  he  did  not  appre- 
hend there  was  the  least  reason  to  make  the  fifth  demand,  as 
he  supposed  a  creation  of  American  peers  would  never  take 
place. 

Sir  JeflFery  Amherst's  regiments  are  not  given  away. 

I  shall  make  no  comment  on  this.  I  tell  it  as  a  fact  which 
I  have  heard  from  what  people  call  good  authority.  The  dis- 
mission of  an  experienced  and  deserving  commander  requires 
fiome  attention,  and  there  can  be  no  harm  in  making  the 
r>ublic  acquainted  with  it.  The  number  of  falsehoods  that 
nave  been  spread  abroad  about  this  transaction  have  induced 
me  to  send  you  this. 

I  must  tell  you,  however,  that  my  information  is  second 
hand ;  but  it  may  have  this  good  effect,  even  if  not  true,  to 
induce  those  who  know  the  contrary  to  do  as  I  have  done.     I 


HIQ         UI6GELLAKS0US  LEXTEBS  ASCRIBED  TO  JUNIUS. 

shall  therefore  conclude  with  this  question :  are  these  thiug& 

true  or  not? 

GLEOPHAS. 


LETTER  XXXVIT. 


TO  THE  EARL  OF  HILLSBOROUGH. 

My  Lord,  September  1,  1768. 

In  the  ordinary  course  of  life,  a  regularity  of  accounts,  a  pre- 
cision in  points  of  fact,  and  a  punctual  reference  to  dates,  form 
a  strong  presumption  of  integrity.  On  the  other  hand,  an 
apparent  endeavour  to  perplex  the  order  and  simplicity  of 
facts,  to  confound  dates,  and  to  wander  from  the  main  ques- 
tion, are  shrewd  signs  of  a  rotten  cause  and  of  a  guilty  con 
science.  Let  the  public  determine  between  your  Lordship 
and  me.  You  have  forfeited  all  title  to  respect ;  but  I  shall 
treat  you  with  tenderness  and  mercy,  as  I  would  a  criminal  at 
the  bar  of  justice 

In  your  letter  signed  Cleophas  you  are  pleased  to  assume 
the  character  of  a  person  half  informed.  We  understand  the 
use  of  this  expedient.  You  avail  yourself  of  everything  that 
can  be  said  for  you  by  a  third  person,  without  being  obliged  to 
abide  by  the  apology  if  it  should  fail  you.  My  Lord,  this  is  a 
paltry  art,  unworthy  of  your  station,  unworthy  of  everything 
but  the  cause  you  have  undertaken  to  defend.  While  you 
pursue  these  artifices  it  is  impossible  to  know  on  what  prin- 
ciples you  really  rest  your  defence.  But  you  may  shift  your 
ground  as  often  as  you  please ;  you  shall  gain  no  advantage  by 
it.  Your  Lordship,  under  the  character  of  Cleophas,  is  ex- 
actly acquainted  with  pfirticulars  which  could  only  be  known 
to  a  few  persons,  while  you  totally  forget  a  series  of  facts 
known  to  thousands.  You  can  repeat  every  article  of  your 
own  letter  to  Sir  JeflFery  Amherst*,  though  your  own  memory 

*  This  letter  was  at  length  published  November  2,  and  is  as  follows : — 

"  8i«,  "  Hanover  Square,  July  27, 1768. 

"  I  am  comnanded  by  the  King  to  acquaint  you  that  his  Majesty,  upon  a  con* 
sideration  of  the  despatches  lately  recei'ed  from  Virginia,  thinks  it  necesnry 
Sot  his  service  that  hii  governor  of  that  colony  shoiild  immediately  repair  tt 


LUCTUS  TO  THE  EABL  OF  HITXSDOBOUOH.      317 

be  too  weak  to  recollect  on  what  day  Lord  Boutetort's  appoiDt- 
meut  was  fixed,  on  what  day  he  kissed  hands,  and  on  what  day 
the  design  was  opened  to  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst.  These,  it 
seems,  are  circumstances  of  no  importance ;  and,  to  say  the 
truth,  I  believe  they  are  such  as  you  would  willingly  forget 
I  am  glad  to  find,  however,  that  the  acknowledgment  of  Sir 
Jeffery  Amherst  s  merit  and  services  could  not  be  more  full 

his  government,  and  at  the  same  time  to  express  to  you  the  high  opinion 
his  Majesty  has  of  your  ability  to  serve  him  in  that  situation.  But  it  is  not 
the  King's  intention  to  press  you  to  go  upon  that  service,  unless  it  shall  he 
perfectly  agreeable  to  your  inclination  as  well  as  entirely  convenient  to  you. 
His  Majesty  does  not  forget  that  the  govonment  of  Virginia  was  conferred 
upon  you  as  a  mark  of  royal  £iiTour,  and  as  a  reward  for  the  very  great 
services  you  have  done  for  the  public,  so  much  to  your  own  honour  and  so 
much  to  the  advantage  of  this  kingdom,  and  therefore  his  Majesty  is  very 
solicitous  that  you  should  not  mistake  his  gracious  intention  on  this  occasion. 
"  If  you  choose  to  go  immediately  to  your  government,  it  will  be  extremely 
satisfiMtory  to  his  Majesty ;  if  you  do  not,  his  Majesty  wishes  to  appoint  a 
new  governor,  and  to  continue  to  you  in  some  other  shape  that  emolument 
which  was,  as  I  have  said  before,  intended  as  a  mark  of  the  royal  sense  of 
your  meritorious  services.  It  is  a  particular  pleasure  to  me  to  have  the 
honour  of  expressing  to  you  these  very  fiivourable  sentiments  of  our  royal 
master.  To  add  anything  from  myself  would  be  a  degree  of  presumption ;  I 
will  therefore  only  request  the  &vottr  of  your  answer  as  soon  as  may  be  con- 
venient, and  take  the  liberty  to  assure  you  that  I  am, 

'*  HiLLSBOROUOH." 

The  following  short  note  was  published  immediately  in  reply  to  it : — 

"to  thb  pkintsb  of  thb  public  advertiseb. 

"Sib,  "Novembers.  1768. 

"  To  prevent  any  impression  which  may  arise  to  the  prejudice  of  Sir  Jeffery 
Amherst  from  a  letter  circulated  by  the  Earl  of  Hillsborough,  and  now  in 
print,  it  is  only  necessary  to  observe  that  it  is  dated  the  27th  of  July,  and 
that  the  government  of  Virginia  was  given  to  Lord  Boutetort  on  Sunday,  the 
24th.  This  being  the  fact,  the  humble  faMOiing  language  of  the  secretary  of 
state's  letter.  Instead  of  a  compliment,  is  a  real  mockery  and  msult.  A  true 
idea  of  the  treatment  which  Sir  J.  A.  has  received  can  only  be  had  by 
observing  the  order  of  the  facts.  The  government  is  given  away  on  Sunday; 
the  secretary  of  state  writes  his  letter  on  Wednesday ;  he  and  Sir  J.  A.  meet 
on  Thursday.  Not  the  most  distant  hint  is  given  him  that  his  government 
is  actually  disposed  of^  and  Lord  Boutetort  kissed  hands  next  morning.  This, 
Sir,  is  the  treatment  which  Sir  J.  A.  considers  as  an  affront,  not  an  injury, 
and  which  he  resents  as,  he  oujht.  If  Lord  H.  had  not  published  his  letter, 
I  should  not  have  thought  of  reviving  a  question  on  which  the  public  wns 
befoie  completely  satisfied. 


218         MISCELLANEOUS   LETTERS   ASCRIBED   TO  JUNIUS. 

and  formal  than  as  it  is  stated  in  your  letter  to  bim.  Upou 
that  point,  then,  we  are  agreed. 

You  say  Sir  JeflFery  Amherst,  at  your  first  conversation, 
seemed  satisfied.  My  Lord,  I  must  tell  you,  that  when  a 
secretary  of  state  assures  Sir  JeflFery  Amherst  that  any  par- 
ticular measure  is  necessary  for  the  King  s  service,  he  is  too 
good  a  suhject  to  set  his  private  interest  in  opposition  to  the 
public  welfare.  But  did  you*  tell  him  that  his  government 
had  been  given  away  four  days  before  ?  Did  you  not  speak 
of  it  as  a  measure  in  futurum,  which  was  not  to  take  place 
till  he  was  perfectly  satisfied  ?  In  short,  did  you  tell  him 
that  Lord  Boutetort  was  to  kiss  hands  next  morning  ?  Answer 
these  questions  like  a  man  and  a  gentleman. 

When  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst  found  that  all  this  pretended 
necessity  of  the  Eling's  service  ended  in  a  provision  for  a 
ruined  courtier,  he  felt  the  indignation  of  a  man  who  has 
received  an  affront,  not  an  injury.  Your  emissaries  aflPect  to 
say,  that  he  was  desired  to  repair  to  his  government,  and 
upon  his  refusal  was  dismissed.  This  you  know  was  not  the 
fact,  so  that  every  reasoning  built  upon  it  falls  to  the  ground. 
You  never  did  nor  could  propose  to  him  to  return  to  America 
in  a  rank  subordinate  to  General  Gage.  It  never  was  a 
question;  and  indeed  how  should  it,  when  his  government 
was  given  away  on  the  81st  of  July,  and  he  had  not  the  most 
distant  intimation  that  such  a  measure  was  thought  of,  until 
Thursday,  the  4th  of  August.  Mark  these  dates,  my  Lord, 
for  you  shall  not  escape  me. 

After  the  affront  had  been  fixed  upon  him  in  the  grossest 
manner,  he  was  desired  to  consider  what  satisfaction  he 
would  accept  of.  He  then  sent  to  the  Duke  of  Grafton  the 
demands  which  you  have  stated  to  the  public.  These,  and 
the  answers  to  them,  shall  now  be  considered.  The  word 
demand  is  peremptory,  and  unfit  to  be  made  use  of  by  a  sub-> 
ject  in  a  request  to  the  crown.  It  was  not  made  use  of  by 
Sir  Jeffery  Amherst,  though,  for  the  matter  of  it,  I  assert 
without  scruple,  that  a  man  of  distinguished  public  merit, 
who  has  been  signally  insulted,  is  not  in  the  case  of  a  sup- 
pliant, but  has  a  right  to  a  signal  reparation. 

The  Duke  of  Grafton's  idea  of  the  proper  object  of  a 
British  p<»^**age  differs   very  materially  from  mine.      EUfl 


LVOIUd  TO  THE  EARL  OF  HILLSBOBOUOH*       219 

Grace,  in  the  trae  spirit  of  business,  looks  for  nothing  but 
an  opulent  fortune,  meaning,  I  presume,  the  fortune  which 
can  purchase  as  well  as  maintain  a  title.  We  understand  his 
Grace,  and  know  who  dictated  that  article.  He  has  declared 
the  terms  on  which  Jews,  gamesters,  pedlars,  and  contractors 
(if  they  have  sense  enough  to  take  the  hint)  may  rise  without 
difficulty  into  British  peers.  There  was  a  time  indeed, 
though  not  within  his  Grace's  memory,  when  titles  were  the 
reward  of  public  virtue,  and  when  the  crown  did  not  think 
its  revenue  ill  employed  in  contributing  to  support  the 
honours  it  had  bestowed.  It  is  true  his  Grace's  family  de- 
rive their  wealth  and  greatness  from  a  different  origin — from 
a  system  which  it  seems  he  is  determined  to  revive.  His  con- 
fession is  frank  at  least,  and  well  becomes  the  candour  of  a 
young  man.  I  dare  say  that  if  either  his  Grace  or  your  Lord- 
ship had  had  the  command  of  a  seven  years'  war  in  America, 
you  would  have  taken  care  that  poverty,  however  honourable, 
should  not  have  been  an  objection  to  your  advancement; 
you  would  not  have  stood  in  the  predicament  of  Sir  Jeffery 
Amherst,  who  is  refused  a  title  of  honour  because  he  did  not 
create  a  fortune  equal  to  it  at  the  expense  of  the  public. 

For  the  matter  of  a  recompense  equivalent  to  his  govern- 
ment, he  repeatedly  told  your  Lordship  that  the  name  of  pen- 
sion was  grating  to  his  ears,  and  that  he  would  accept  of  no 
revenue  that  was  not  at  the  same  time  honorary.  Your 
Ijordship  does  not  know  the  difference,  but  men  of  honour 
feel  it. 

If  reasons  political  and  commercial  forbid  working  the  coal 
mines  in  America,  that,  I  allow,  is  an  answer  ad  hominem. 
It  may  be  a  true  one ;  yet  I  do  not  despair  of  seeing  these 
very  mines  hereafter  granted  to  support  the  chastity  of  a 
minister's  whore,  the  integrity  of  a  pimp,  or  the  uncorrupted 
blood  of  a  bastard. 

His  Grace  is  wonderfully  bountiful  in  the  article  of  lands. 
I  doubt  not  he  would  with  all  hb  heart  give  Sir  Jeffery  Am- 
herst the  fee  simple  of  every  acre  from  the  Mississippi  to 
California.  But  we  shall  be  the  less  surprised  at  his  generosity 
when  we  consider  that  every  private  soldier  who  served  a 
certain  time  inAmerisawas  entitled  to  two  hundred  acres, 
and  that  not  one  man,  out  of  perhaps  twenty  thousand 
o1airaant«,  has  yet  settled  upon  his  estate 


U20  M18CEIJANE0US   LErfERS   ASCRIBED   TO  JUNIl  S 

As  to  American  peerages,  if  none  are  to  be  created,  the  re- 
quest falls  of  course.  But  if  such  a  creation  had  been  in- 
tended, I  call  upon  your  Lordship  to  point  out  a  man  better 
entitled  to  precedence  upon  that  list  than  Sir  Jefiferj  Am- 
herst. 

Your  last  assertion  is  that  his  regiments  are  not  given 
away.  It  is  a. matter  of  perfect  indifference;  yet  the  pub- 
lic has  reason  to  believe  that  Colonel  Hotham  is  now  colonel 
of  the  15th  regiment,  and  that  the  commission  of  comman- 
dant of  the  royal  Americans  only  waits  until  it  shall  be  de- 
termined whether  General  Gage  shall  be  recalled  or  not. 

Permit  me  now  to  refer  your  Lordship  to  the  questions 
stated  in  my  last  letter,  and  to  desire  you  to  answer  them 
strictly.  If  you  do  not,  the  public  will  draw  its  own  con- 
clusions. 

Your  emissaries,  my  Lord,  have  rather  more  zeal  than  dis- 
cretion. One  of  them,  who  calls  himself  A  Considerate  Eng- 
lishman, could  not  write  by  authority,  because  he  is  entirely 
unacquainted  with  facts.  His  declamation  therefore  signifies 
nothing.  In  his  assertions,  however,  there  is  something 
really  not  unplecisant.  He  assures  us  that  your  Lordship's 
great  abilities  were  brought  into  employment  to  correct  the 
blunders  of  Mr.  Pitt's  administration.  It  puts  me  in  mind 
of  the  consulship  which  Caligula  intended  for  his  horse,  and 
of  a  project  which  Buckhorse  once  entertained  of  obliging  the 
learned  world  with  a  correct  edition  of  the  classics. 

LUCIUS. 


LETTER  XXXVIII. 

TO  THE   FRTNTEB  OF  THE   PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 

Sib,  September  6,  1768. 

When  a  worthless  administration  do  a  notorious  a<3t  of  tnjtis 
t'we  to  a  good  man,  which  naturally  raises  the  indignation  of 
the  public,  they  are  not  satisfied  with  the  first  hlow^  but  thoir 
emissaries  go  to  work  to  blacken  the  character  which  was  fair 
before,  in  order  to  justify  the  measures  of  their  masters. 

In  this  light  I  must  look  upon  the  performance  of  your 
correspondent  CleojphaSfjun.t  in  your  paper  of  to-day. 


LUCIUS  TO  THE  EABL  OF  HILLSBOBOUOH.       221 

His  assertion,  "that  the  Duke  of  Grafton  assured  Sir 
Jeffery  Amherst  that  General  Gage  should  he  recalled,  if  Sir 
Jeffery  chose  to  go  to  his  government,"  is  an  absolute  fahUy  ; 
for  (and  I  speak  from  very  good  authority)  the  matter  of  the 
chief  command  of  the  troops  never  was  mentioned,  either  hy 
the  Duke  of  Grafton  ox  any  of  his  colleagues.  Had  it  been 
80,  Lord  Hillsborough  in  going  his  rounds  (his  Lordship  under- 
stands me)  would  not  have  failed  to  have  expatiated  fully 
thereon;  but  the  letters  of  your  masterly  correspondent 
TjudvA  have  drove  his  Lordship  to  the  mean  and  paltry  art 
of  employing  some  of  his  nameless  dependants  to  throw  out 
insinuations,  which  he  knows  to  be  false,  yet,  judging  from 
the  general  run  of  mankind,  flatters  himself  that  at  least  part 
of  them  will  be  believed. 

My  design  being  only  to  set  the  public  right  in  regard  to 
the  assertion  of  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst*s  being  offered  the  chief 
command  of  the  troops,  which,  in  truth,  never  happened,  I 
shall  take  no  notice  of  the  other  part  of  your  correspondent's 
letter,  but  leave  him  and  his  bungling  patrons  to  find  in  the 
list  of  the  army  an  officer  so  fit  as  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst  to 
deal  with  the  r^ractory  colonists. 

L.  L. 


LETTER  XXXIX. 

For  the  Public  Advertiser, 

September  7, 1768. 

Quid  enim  eit  minni,  non  dieo  ocatorif,  aed  lioniiiUB,  quam  id  objiesra 
adTenario,  quod  iUe  li  verbo  n^gaiity  longiua  progredi  non  possit  qui 
objecerit  Y--C10BBO. 

TO  THE   EABL  OF  HILLSBOBOUOH. 

Mt  Lord, 
The  bare  assertion  of  a  taisehood  requires  nothing  more  than 
a  determined  countenance.  To  maintain  a  consistent  false- 
hood not  only  demands  a  genius  of  invention,  but  a  faithful 
memory.  In  your  Lordship's  letter,  signed  Cleophas,  jun, ,  you 
are  pleased  to  assert  that  the  Duke  of  Grafton  offered  to 
recall  General  Gage  in  order  that  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst  might 
return  to  America  with  the  chief  command  of  the  King^s 


MS         KSBfaSLLkMBOXJS  LBTIBBS  A8CBIBED  TO  JUNIUS. 

Ibices.  Now,  my  Lord,  I  absolately  deny  the  hct ;  aiid  as  th« 
public  inll  not  expect  me  to  prove  a  negative,  I  shall  leave 
it  to  yoor  Loidahip  to  prodoce  your  evidence,  if  you  have  any. 

Bcally,  my  good  Lonl,  your  letters  upon  business  are  dinwu 
up  with  yeiy  litde  caution.  In  one  article  you  tell  us  that  the 
chief  command  in  America  was  offered  to  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst, 
and  in  the  next  that  he  has  been  discovered  for  some  time 
past  to  entertain  a  strong  partialify  for  the  refractory  colonists. 
If  both  these  fiicts  were  true,  what  an  opinion  must  we  con- 
ceive of  a  ministry  careless  and  imprudent  enough  to  intrust 
a  man  so  biassed  with  such  a  comnumd !  Ton  see,  my  Lord« 
to  what  an  unfortunate  dilemma  you  have  reduced  yourself  by 
a  weak  inconsistent  defence.  The  rage  of  writing  letters  has 
brought  many  a  wiser  minister  than  your  Lordship  to  an  un- 
timely end. 

Ton  seem  determined,  my  Lord,  to  go  through  the  family 
of  Cleophas.  Be  it  so.  1£  your  pedigree  extended  from 
Denbigh  to  St.  David*s,  I  would  not  cease  to  pursue  you  from 
father  to  son,  until  I  had  £urly  extirpated  the  ^diole  feunily. 

LUGIUa 


LETTER  XL. 

TO  THB  PBINTEB  OF  THE  PUBLIC  ADVEBTISKB. 

Sib,  September  7, 1768. 

As  I  have  not  the  least  intention  to  enter  into  any  dispute 
with  LuciuSf  indulge  me  but  this  once,  and  give  me  leave  to 
assure  you  it  shall  be  the  last  on  the  subject  from  me ;  and 
though  this  man  writes  so  ungenteelly  that  he  scarce  de- 
serves an  answer,  yet  I  could  not  help  thinking  this  much 
necessary,  in  justice  to  a  nobleman  whom  he  has  most  shame- 
fully attacked  in  consequence  of  my  letter,  but  whose  cha- 
racter is  above  the  reach  of  malice,  and  who  will  be  respected 
when  such  pests  of  society  are  no  more. 

The  account  I  sent  you  relative  to  the  resignation  of  Sir 
Jeffery  Amherst  I  had  heard  publicly  talked  of  at  table,  and 
in  a  coffee-house ;  it  was  told  as  no  secret ;  but  was  said  w 
be  from  very  good  authority.  I  sent  it  as  a  piece  of  intelli- 
gence, without  either  adding  or  diminishing.  I  made  no  com- 


0LE0PHA8  TO  THE  PUBLIC  ADYEBTISGB.  2S9 

ment  on  it,  as  I  intended  no  offence.  Facts  were  stated  as 
they  were  told,  and  as  no  dates  were  mentioned,  I  gave  none. 
I  left  it  to  the  public  to  form  opinions  as  they  pleased ;  to  Sir 
Jefifery  Amherst's  friends  to  contradict  it  if  they  thought 
proper ;  and  it  has  served  as  a  bone  for  curs  of  opposition  to 
snarl  at. 

Though  I  do  not  mean  to  enter  into  any  dispute  with  this 
fellow,  yet  I  cannot  help  making  a  few  observations  on  his 
letter.  That  the  government  of  Virginia  was  given  away  four 
days  before  the  intention  of  administration  was  mentioned  to 
Sir  Jeffery  Amherst,  I  have  good  ground  to  believe  is  not  fact ; 
and  if  you,  LtudtiSy  possessed  one  grain  of  honesty,  and  if  you 
had  no  other  intention  but  to  communicate  useful  information 
to  the  public,  you  would  have  told  them  so:  that  it  was 
applied  for  even  as  soon  as  it  was  whispered  that  such  a  mea- 
sure was  to  be  adopted,  upon  the  supposition  that  Sir  Jeffery 
Amherst  would  not  choose  to  reside,  I  can  believe ;  that  it 
was  promised  to  Lord  Boutetort  in  case  he  did  not,  I  can 
likewise  believe;  and  this  might  have  been  four,  or  even 
fourteen  days,  for  aught  I  know,  before  it  was  mentioned ; 
but  pray  where  is  the  harm  in  all  this  ?  I  fancy  no  measure 
of  government  is  entered  into  immediately  on  its  being  men- 
tioned ;  it  requires  some  time  to  digest.  And  when  it  was 
judged  expedient,  in  consequence  of  the  accounts  from  that 
province,  to  send  the  governor-general  to  reside  in  Virginia,  it 
"was  mentioned  in  the  tenderest  manner  to  Sir  Jefifery.  No 
affront  was  ever  intended.  Any  recompense  (if  he  did  not 
choose  to  go)  in  the  power  of  administration,  or  in  the  gift  of 
zDiyesty,  was  offered  him.  What  more  could  he  expect  ?  He 
had  it  in  his  option  to  go  or  not ;  and  if  he  did  not  go,  he  was 
promised  an  equivalent,  perhaps  more.  As  soon  as  this  mea- 
sure was  surmised,  was  there  any  harm  in  Lord  Boutetort*s 
application?  Was  there  any  fault  in  Lord  Hillsborough's 
promising  his  interest  for  his  friend  ?  But  is  this  an  absolute 
appointment?  No.  All  the  world  knows  applications  are 
made  long  enough  before  vacancies  happen,  and  preferments 
are  promised ;  but  everybody,  except  iMcius^  can  make  a  dis- 
tinction between  a  promise  and  an  absolute  appointment.  I 
dare  say  there  were  applications  from  more  than  one  quarter 
before  the  late  archbishop  died :  and  probably  it  was  pro* 
mised  before  the  event  happened;  but  if  the  see  had  not 


224  MISCELLANEOUS  LETTEBS  ASCRIBED  TO  JCKIUS. 

become  vacant,  the  present  archbishop  might  have  remained 
at  Coventry. 

But  speak  oat,  malevolence — speak,  envy,  disappointment, 
and  ill-nature.  What  in  the  name  of  goodness  could  be  Sit 
Jeffery  Amherst's  objection  to  Lord  Boutetort  ?  Was  it  be- 
cause he  is  a  nobleman  ?  Because  he  has  gone  to  the  chapel 
at  St  James's,  and  has  carried  the  sword  of  state  before  his 
King  ?  Because  he  never  has  insulted  majesty,  but  h&s  always 
behaved  himself  as  a  dutiful  and  loyal  subject,  and  respect- 
fully to  his  sovereign  ?  Are  these  the  weighty  motives  for 
objecting  to  his  succession  ?  Or  is  it  still  a  greater  crime  to 
be  poor?  And  do  these  make  it  an  affront^  not  an  injury  f 
Forbid  it  heaven!  Forbid  it  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst's  better 
genius!  What  would  you  have  had,  Lucius f  Would  you 
have  wished  to  have  had  the  naming  of  Sir  Jeffery's  suc- 
cessor ?  What  a  pity  you  had  not !  I  declare  you  deserved 
it !  How  could  my  Lord  Hillsborough  dare  to  recommend 
without  your  permission ! 

Demands,  you  say,  are  unfit  to  be  used  from  subjects  re- 
questing of  the  crown.  Indeed,  Lucius,  you  are  right ;  but 
many  subjects  now-a-days  forget  that  they  are  so !  And  call 
them  by  what  name  you  please,  I  acknowledge  these  articles 
of  accommodation  sent  to  the  Duke  of  Grafton  by  Sir  Jeffery 
Amherst,  or  said  to  be  sent,  answer  exactly  to  the  ideas  I  have 
of  demands,  and  pretty  peremptory  ones  too. 

It  is  strange,  Lucius,  that  you  cannot  write  one  line  with- 
out abuse.  Had  you  made  your  remarks  upon  the  Duke  of 
Grafton's  answer  to  the  first  article  without  abusing  his 
Grace,  it  would  have  been  genteel ;  but  the  scurrilous  lan- 
guage you  use,  even  when  your  arguments  are  just,  proves  that 
you  are  equally  unacquainted  with  the  gentleman  and  sense 
of  honour.  I  believe  it  is  well  known  that  no  commander-in- 
chief  ever  made  less  during  a  long  war  than  Sir  Jeffery 
Amherst  did ;  and  I  am  very  sorry  indeed  that  want  of  for- 
tune, the  consequence  of  honesty  and  integrity,  should  ever 
be  assigned  as  a  reason  to  refuse  honours  to  those  who  de- 
serve t£em.  The  honours  of  this  country  and  its  treasures 
to  support  them  have  often  hfien  lavished  on  many  who  de- 
served them  less  than  the  conqueror  of  America.  This  I 
think  was  the  only  exceptionable  answer  from  the  Duke  <d 
Grafton.     I  hope  it  is  not  true 


LUCIUS  TO  THE  EABL  OF  HILTiJROBOUGfl.  225 

Whatever  delicate  feelings  you,  Mr,  LueiitSy  may  hare,  I 
know  not;  but  I  am  of  opinion  that  sinecure  places,  non 
resident  governments,  and  pensions,  are  in  fact  the  same, 
though  different  in  names;  nay,  the  worst  of  the  whole 
appears  to  me  to  be  a  non-resident  governor.  The  very  word 
implies  a  necessity  of  domg  something;  in  fact  he  does 
nothing :  he  therefore  is  paid  for  what  he  does  not,  though  it 
is  his  duty  to  do  it.  In  short  he  is  paid  for  a  neglect  of  duty ; 
but  because  our  language  has  not  annexed  the  word  pension 
to  such  neglect,  it  does  not  grate  his  ears.  And,  after  all, 
what  was  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst  but  a  pensioner  of  the  colony 
of  Virginia  ?  He  did  nothing  for  it,  and  was  paid.  Our  idea 
of  a  pension  is  a  reward  granted  for  past  services ;  so  was  his. 
Such  as  you,  Lucius^  such  tools  of  opposition,  such  state 
incendiaries,  venal  mercenary  wretches,  are  glad  to  receive 
rewards  of  your  labours  infinitely  less  honourable  than  either 
place  or  pension. 

The  Duke  of  Grafton's  other  answers  were  unexceptionable. 
As  to  the  regiments  being  given  away,  I  did  not  know  it, 
therefore  I  am  excusable. 

And  now,  Mr.  Imcius,  111  tell  you  a  secret.  Your  supposing 
my  letter  to  come  from  my  Lord  Hillsborough,  in  my  opinion 
did  credit  to  the  performance  and  honour  to  me ;  but  injustice 
to  him  I  must  declare,  that  I  am  not,  know  not,  never  saw, 
nor  never  spoke  to  the  Earl  of  Hillsborough  in  my  life — ^but 
just  as  formerly,  I  am,  &c. 

CLBOPHAS. 


LETTER  XLI. 

TO  THE  EABL  OF  HILL8B0B0U0H. 

Ht  Lobd,  September  9,  1768. 

It  is  indifferent  to  the  public  whether  the  letters  signed 
Cleophas  are  written  by  your  Lordship  or  under  your  imme- 
diate direction.  Whoever  commits  this  humble  begging  Ian 
guBge  to  paper,  we  know  to  a  certainty  the  person  by  whom  it 
is  held.  We  know  the  suppliaiit  style .  your  Lordship  has 
condescended  to  adopt  at  routs,  at  tea-tables,  and  in  bankers 
Bhops.     But  although  you  have  changed  your  tone,  I  am 

▼OL.   U.  Q 


226  ^pSKLLASEOfUS  I.KTTEB8    ASCBOKD  TO  JUHHW. 

bpoiid  in  lumoor  not  to  giTO  yon  quarter.  Ton  baye  offended 
beinooiilj  agunst  your  ooantry,  and  public  jostioe  demands  an 
example  for  tbe  welfiue  of  mankind. 

I  mresaw  Cleophns  would  soon  be  disavowed.  It  seems 
tbe  poor  gentleman  never  saw,  nor  spoke  to  your  Lordsbip  in 
bis  life,  hut  just  as  farmeri^.    Tbe  saving  is  a  good  one. 

You  say  your  cbaracter  is  above  tbe  reacb  of  malice.  True, 
my  Lord,  you  bave  fixed  tbat  reproacb  upon  your  cbaracter  ta 
wbicb  malice  can  add  notbing.  You  say  it  will  be  respected 
wben  sucb  pests  of  society  as  I  am  are  no  more.  I  agree 
vritb  you  tbat  it  is  very  little  respected  at  present,  and  I 
believe  I  may  unluckily  bave  been  tbe  spoil  of  good  com- 
pany ;  but  I  doubt  wbetber  my  deatb.  or  even  your  own,  will 
restore  you  to  your  good  fiune.  Your  peace  of  mind  is  gone 
for  ever. 

After  tbe  particulars  quoted  by  Cleophas,  it  looks  like 
trifling  witb  tbe  public,  to  confess  tbat  bis  accounts  were  col- 
lected in  a  coffee-bouse,  aud  tbat  be  will  neitber  answer  for 
&ct8  nor  be  directed  by  dates.  Tbese  are  evasions  wbicb  I 
scorn  to  imitate.  My  autbority  is  indisputable ;  I  bave  stated 
iacts  witb  precision,  and  marked  tbe  dates  by  wbicb  I  sball 
invariably  abide,  yet  Cleophas  (alias  your  Lordsbip)  says  be 
bas  good  ground  to  bdieve  that  tbe  government  was  not  given 
away  four  days  before  Sir  J.  A.  was  apprised  of  it :  be  brieves 
indeed  tbat  it  was  previously  applied  for,  and  tbat  Lord 
Boutetort  bad  a  conditional  promise  of  it  Tbese,  it  seems, 
are  tbe  articles  of  bis  creed ;  but,  as  tbey  are  not  points  of 
religious  fedtb,  to  wbicb  tbere  migbt  be  some  merit  in  sacri- 
ficing our  understanding,  I  presume  tbe  public  is  not  obliged 
to  conform  to  tbem.  My  questions  were  put  strictly  to  points 
of  fact  and  time,  and  bave  not  yet  been  answered.  Places,  1 
doubt  not,  are  often  applied  for  and  promised  before  tbey  are 
vacant ;  but  I  did  not  expect  to  bear  so  indecent  a  case  sop- 
posed  and  urged  by  a  man  in  your  Lordsbip^s  station,  as  tbat 
tbe  see  of  Canterbury  was  promised  to  anotber  before  tbe 
death  of  the  late  pious  and  truly  reverend  incumbent. 

You  say  that  government  was  ready  to  make  Sir  J.  A.  any 
recompense ;  yet,  excepting  a  grant  of  lands  in  a  wildemeaa* 
eveiy  one  of  his  requests  was  flatly  denied. 

You  ask  if  there  was  any  harm  in  this,  or  any  fault  in  Ibat. 
What  is  this  but  crying  peccavi^  in  the  very  languagfi  of 


LUCIUS  TJ  THK  EABL  OF  HCLL8B0R0U0R.      SdT 

misery  and  despair  ?  It  neither  suits  the  spirit  which  can  do 
wrong  with  firmness,  nor  that  purity  of  innocence  which  is 
conscious  of  having  done  right.  If  the  necessity  of  sending 
OTor  a  governor  to  Virginia  had  really  existed,  and  if  your 
Lordship  had  thought  proper  to  take  an  early  opportunity 
of  stating  that  necessity  to  Sir  J.  A.,  if  you  had  previously 
apprised  him  of  the  design  of  giving  him  a  successor,  and 
if,  in  conformity  to  such  declarations,  a  man  of  business, 
of  judgment,  or  activity,  had  been  fixed  on,  you  surely  could 
not  have  paid  too  great  an  attention  to  Sir  J.  A.,  and  you 
would  have  prevented  every  possible  appearance  of  an  intention 
to  affront  him.  As  to  the  pecuniary  ii^juiy,  I  will  venture  to 
say  there  is  not  a  man  breathing  who  would  have  been  mofe 
ea^Iy  satisfied  in  that  respect  man  Sir  J.  A.  Compare  this 
supposition  with  your  real  proceedings  towards  him,  and 
though  you  cannot  blush,  I  am  sure  you  will  be  silent 

Your  questions  in  £a,vour  of  Lord  Boutetort  amount  to 
nothing.  It  is  not  that  he  is  a  bad  man,  or  an  undutiful  sub- 
ject. But  he  is  a  trifling  character  and  ruined  in  his  fortunes. 
Poverty  of  itself  is  certainly  not  a  crime.  Tet  the  prodi- 
gality which  squanders  a  fiur  estate  is  in  the  first  instance 
dishonourable ;  in  the  next  it  leads  to  every  species  of  mean- 
ness and  dependence,  and  when  it  aims  at  a  recovery  at  the 
expense  of  better  men,  becomes  highly  criminal.  Will  your 
Lordship,  can  you,  with  a  steady  countenance,  affirm  that  it 
was  the  necesHUes  of  the  stau^,  and  not  his  own,  which  sent 
him  to  Virginia? 

YourLordaixq^  mgr^ve  vvhat  name  you  think  proper  to  the 
leqnoBts  proposed  by  Sir  J.  A.  He  was  desired  to  specify 
t&em  to  we  Duke  of  Gimfton,  and  they  were  refused.  It  is 
true,  he  did  not  confine  himself  to  the  idea  of  a  bare  equiva- 
lent for  the  pecuniary  value  of  his  government.  A  generous 
mind,  offended  by  an  insult  equally  signal  and  unprovoked, 
looks  back  to  services  long  neglected,  and  with  justice 
unites  the  claim  arising  from  those  services  to  the  insult, 
which  of  right  demands  a  signal  reparation. 

As  you  seem,  in  the  Duke  of  Grafton's  answer  to  the  first 
article,  to  feel  and  acknowledge  your  weakness,  I  shall  not 
press  you  further  upon  it. 

The  pensions  given  by  the  crown  have  been  so  scandalously 
prostituted  that  a  man  of  any  nicety  might  well  be  foi^vea 


ft^S  IflSGELLANEOUS   LETTERS  ASCBIBED   TO  JUNIUF. 

if  he  wished  not  to  have  the  title  of  pensioner  added  ta 
his  name.  But  I  shall  not  descend  to  a  dispute  ahout  words. 
I  speak  to  things.  If,  instead  of  the  government  of  Virginia, 
his  late  Majesty,  on  the  surrender  of  Louisbourg,  had  thought 
proper  to  give  Sir  J.  A.  a  pension,  and  if  this  had  been  the 
declared  motive  of  giving  it,  he  might  have  accepted  it  without 
scruple,  and  held  it  with  honour.  Instances  of  pensions  so 
bestowed  are  not  very  frequent.  Sir  Edward  Hawke  s  is  one. 
How  widely  different  is  the  case  in  question  !  I  will  not 
pretend  to  do  justice  to  this  good  man  s  dehcacy  and  sense  of 
honour ;  but  I  can  easily  conceive  how  a  man  of  common 
spirit  must  be  affected,  when  a  place  which  he  possessed  on 
tne  most  honourable  terms  is  taken  from  him,  without 
even  the  decency  due  to  a  gentleman  ;  when  he  sees  it  given 
to  a  needy  court  dependant,  and  when  the  only  reparation 
offered  him,  is  to  enroll  him  in  a  list  of  pensioners  among 
whom  an  honest  man  would  blush  to  see  his  name.  If  you  had 
not  been  in  such  haste  to  correct  the  blunders  of  Mr.  Pitts 
administration,  I  think  your  insignificant  friend  might  have 
appeared  in  that  list  without  any  disgrace  to  himself,  and  his 
distresses  might  have  done  credit  to  the  humanity  of  your 
Lordship's  recommendation. 

You  did  not  know  that  the  15  th  regiment  was  given  to 
Colonel  Hotham.  Yet  your  assertion  was  direct.  For  shame, 
my  Lord ;  have  done  with  these  evasions.  Poor  Pownal*  hangs 
his  head  in  perfect  modesty,  and  even  your  Jidus  Achates^ 
your  unfortunate  Barrington,  disowns  you. 

I  shall  conclude  with  hinting  to  you  (in  a  way  which 
you  alone  will  understand)  that  there  is  a  part  of  my  be- 
haviour to  you  for  which  you  owe  me  some  acknowledgment. 
I  know  the  ostensible  defence  you  have  given  to  the  public 
differs  widely  from  the  real  one  intrusted  privately  to  your 
friends.  You  are  sensible  that  the  most  distant  insinuation 
of  what  that  defence  is  would  ruin  you  at  once.  But  I  am  a 
man  of  honour,  and  will  neither  take  advantage  of  your  im 
orudence,  nor  of  the  difficulty  of  your  situation. 

LUCIUS. 

*  Saoretary  to  the  Board  of  Txade. 


LUGITIS  TO  THE   EABL  OF  HILLSBOfiOUGH  329 


LETTER  XLII. 

Plerisqne  moris  est,  prolato  rerum  ordine,  in  aliquem  laetam  atque  plautibQeni 
locum  qiiam  maxime  possint  favor  abiliter  excurrere. — Quintilian. 

TO   THE   EABL  OF  HILL8B0 BOUGH. 

Mt  Lord,  September  10, 1768. 

YouB  change  of  title  makes  no  alteration  in  the  merits  of 
your  cause.  You  argued  as  well,  and  were  full  as  honest 
a  man,  under  the  character  of  Cleophas,  as  you  are  under 
that  of  Scrutator,  The  task  of  pursuing  falsehood  through  a 
labyrinth  of  nonsense  is,  I  confess,  much  heavier  than  I  ex- 
pected. You  have  a  way  with  you,  my  Lord,  which  blunts  the 
edge  of  attention,  and  sets  all  argument  at  defiance.  But  I 
hold  myself  engaged  to  the  public,  whose  cause  is  united 
with  that  of  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst.  The  people  of  this 
country  feel,  as  they  ought  to  do,  your  treatment  of  a  man 
who  has  served  them  well ;  and  the  time  may  come,  my  Lord, 
when  you  in  your  turn  may  feel  the  effects  of  their  re- 
Ben  tment. 

You  set  out  with  asserting,  that  the  crown  has  an  in- 
disputable power  of  dismissing  its  officers  without  assigning 
a  cause.  Not  quite  indisputable,  my  Lord ;  for  I  have  heard 
*/i  addresses  from  parliament,  to  know  who  advised  the  dis- 
mission of  particular  officers.  I  have  heard  of  impeachments 
attending  a  wanton  exertion  of  the  prerogative,  and  you 
perhaps  may  live  to  hear  of  them  likewise. 

Another  assertion  of  the  same  sort  has  been  thrown  out  by 
jrour  emissaries,  and  is  now  gravely  maintained  by  joui;  LorcU 
ship,  viz.,  that  the  promise  conveyed  to  Sir  J.  A.  by  Mr.  Pitt 
was  in  itself  an  absurdity,  and  that  no  succeeding  minister  is 
lx>und  to  make  good  an  engagement  entered  into  by  his  pre- 
decessor in  office  *.      I  shall  leave  my  Lord  Privy  Seal  to  ex 

*  The  reference  is  to  the  letter  signed  Serutaior,  in  which  the  writer 
observes  as  follows  in  respect  to  the  subject  In  question : — "  An  absurd  pro- 
mise is  asserted  to  have  been  made  to  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst  at  the  time  of  hin 
appointment  to  the  government  of  Virginia,  that  hds  attendance  on  hi* 
govemntaU  should  never  be  required;  and  a  torrent  of  obloquy  has  been 


230         MUCSLLASEOUS  T.KTTKBS  ASCRIBim  TO  JUNIUS 

plain  to  you  the  motiTes  on  which  Mr.  Pitt  acted  ^.  Thtf 
promise  arose  from  his  own  motion,  and  if  he  has  not 
spirit  enough  to  maintain  it,  he  deserres  the  contempt  with 
which  jon  treat  him.  In  the  mean  time,  I  shall  presnme  that 
a  lieutenant-goTemor  was  then  thought  as  efficient  an  officer 
as  a  goTomor,  and  that  this  post  was  bestowed  on  Sir  J.  A. 
not  as  the  salary  of  future  duties,  but  as  the  reward  of  services 
already  performed.  In  the  second  part  of  your  assertion,  you 
wiliully  confound  the  general  measures  of  government  with 
the  particular  promise  of  a  king  made  to  an  individual.  Even 
ministers,  my  Lord,  mi^t,  without  any  injury  to  their  cha- 
racters, preserve  the  faith  and  integrity  of  their  office.  But 
whatever  latitude  they  may  claim  for  themselves,  the 
honour  of  a  king  ought  to  be  sacred,  even  to  his  successor. 
The  proposition  that  ministers  are  not  bound  by  the  engage- 
ments of  their  predecessors,  if  taken  generedly,  is  false. 
There  is  no  breach  of  public  faith  which  may  not  be  jus- 
tifie4  on  such  a  principle.  Treaties  at  this  rate  may  be 
violated  without  national  dishonour,  and  the  most  solemn 
assertions  from  the  throne  contradicted  without  reserve.  You 
forgot  that  you  aro  mixing  the  permanent  dignity  of  the 
crown  with  the  fluctuating  interests  and  views  of  its  servants. 
Yet  I  shall  now  aUow  you  more,  my  Lord,  than  I  believe 
you  expect.  I  shall  admit,  without  hesitation,  that  the 
promise  made  to  Sir  J.  A.  could  not  be  so  absolute  as  not  to 
be  revocable  in  a  case  of  urgent  necessity.  If  such  a  case  had 
been  stated,  and  demonstrated  to  Sir  J.  A.,  he  would  not 
have  staid  to  be  solicited.  He  would  either  have  gone  him- 
self, or  cheerfully  resigned  his  government  to  his  Majesty's 
disposal.  The  question  turns  Qien  upon  the  degree  of  that 
necessity.  Make  it  evident  to  the  public,  and  I  shall  then 
only  complain  that  you  have  done  a  right  thing  in  a  manner 

poured  upon  Lord  Hfllsborough  for  not  keeping  a  promise  which  it  is  not 
even  insinuated  that  his  Lordship  ever  made.  I  can  scarce  think  that  any 
man  could  have  been  so  in&tuated  as.  at  any  time,  to  make  such  a  prepnft> 
terotts  promise — a  promise  in  itself  void  by  a  settled  maxim  of  law,  as  repug- 
nant to  the  giant.  But  if  any  man  could  be  so  in&ntinely  weidc,  it  is  Aai 
Husiness  alone  to  answer  for  the  breach." 

*  Mr.  Pitt  was  at  this  time  Lord  Friyy  Seal,  with  the  title  of  Lord 
Jhathna. 


LUCIUS  TO  THE  £ABL  OF  IHTJrjBBOBO^aR.  231 

\.e  most  iDddcent  and  absurd.  You  will  remember,  mj  Lord, 
how  much  the  issue  of  this  question  depends  upon  Lord 
Boutetort  s  character,  for  the  public  will  not  easily  be  per- 
fiuaded  that  a  conjuncture  which  did  not  rise  beyond  the  le^el 
of  Lord  Boutetort's  abilities  could  be  difficult,  urgent,  or  im 
portant*. 

Tou  say  the  bets  on  which  you  reason  are  universally 
admitted — a  gratis  dictum  which  I  flatly  deny.  If,  instead  of 
wandering  into  wild  declamation,  you  had  found  it  convenient 
to  answer  my  questions  strictly,  we  should  have  joined  issue 
upon  our  facts,  and  the  point  would  long  since  have  been  de- 
termiiied.  Permit  me  to  refresh  your  memory  with  some  of 
tbem  once  more. 

1.  Was  not  Lord  Boutetort  absolutely  appointed  on  the 
8l8tofJuly? 

S.  Was  it  mentioned  in  any  shape  to  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst 
before  the  4th  of  August  ? 

8.  Was  it  not  then  mentioned  as  a  measure  in  contempla- 
tion only  ? 

4.  Did  not  Lord  Boutetout  kiss  hands  next  morning,  that 
is  Friday  the  6th  instant  ? 

5.  Did  not  Sir  Jeflery  Amherst  s  opinion  in  council  defeat 
an  American  scheme  formed  by  you  and  Lord  Barrington,  and 
is  not  this  the  true  cause  of  your  rancour  against  him  ? 


Ml 


Scrutator  concludee  his  letter  in  the  following  words : — 
Our  vigilant  minister  is  vehemently  exclaimed  against  because  he  showed 
himself  prepared  on  the  instant  to  supply  the  vacant  place  of  the  recreant 
knight.  According  to  the  ideas  of  the  politicians  o'  the  bon  ton,  who  always 
Mibstitute  personal  to  national  considerations,  there  ought  to  have  been  a 
decent  interval  allowed  either  for  the  gentleman  to  repent,  or  for  us,  like 
fiuhionable  widows,  to  mourn,  before  a  successor  were  appointed  in  his  room — 
though  in  that  interval  the  colony  should  be  lost.  I  honour  Lord  Hills- 
borough for  having  his  man  ready,  ready  not  only  for  his  place,  but  for  the 
-province ;  ready  not  only  to  kiss  hands,  but  to  take  his  passage.  And  from 
the  watchful  activity  his  Lordship  has  exerted  in  every  known  instance  in  hie 
arduous  employment,  I  have  not  the  least  doubt  bat  that  if  Lord  Boutetort 
had  either  refosed  to  go,  or  on  acy  pretext  delayed  his  departure,  Lord 
Hillsborough  had  still  some  third  man  in  his  eye,  who  would  have  mado 
ample  amends  for  the  deficiencies  of  both. 

*'  I  wish  this  may  prove  a  lesson  to  all  future  ministers  of  state  to  keep  a 
tight  rein  upon  all  officers  in  their  departments,  lest  any  one  should  cry  out 
and  affect  to  be  surprised  when  nddenly  called  ipon  to  do  his  duty  ••  h* 
priaes  his  salary." 


232  XISOELLAKEOUS  LRTTEBS  ASGBIBED  TO  JDMIUS 

It  is  unworthy  of  the  character  of  a  gentleman  to  endeavouf 
to  amuse  the  public  with  idle  declamations,  while  such  ques- 
tions as  these  remain  unanswered. 

LUCIUS*. 

*  There  were  several  replies  to  this  letter.  One  by  an  Independeid 
Country  OewUeman  just  nrrived  in  town,  and  dated  from  the  Bell  Inn,  and 
another  signed  Chnmonhotonthologos,  seem  to  have  obtained  some  attention 
from  the  public;  and  the  latter  especially,  in  consequence  of  the  writer's 
having  discovered  that  Lucius  had  made  a  mistake,  not  in  the  faeU  of  the 
transaction,  but  in  one  of  the  date*,  by  asserting  that  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst 
came  to  town  on  Thursday,  August  4,  instead  of  one  week  earlier,  Thursday, 
July  28.  Both  these  letters  were  replied  to  with  much  spirit  by  the  following, 
signed  Corrector : — 

"to  thb  pbihteb  of  thb  public  adybbtiseb. 

"  Sib,  "  September  14, 1768. 

"  I  am  not  surprised  to  find  the  tools  qfpoufer  alarmed  at  the  sennble,  pointed, 
and  masterly  letters  of  your  correspondent  Lucius;  but  the  little  arts  they 
have  as  yet  used  to  baffle  his  arguments  have  only  served  to  expose  their 
own  weakness.  I  hope  the  gentleman  at  the  Bell  Jnn  took  the  opportunity 
of  a  dry  day  to  get  to  town  for  further  information ;  for  in  good  truth,  if  he 
is  still  stormrStoAd  by  the  rainy  weather,  he  had  much  better  smoke  a  pipe 
with  Bonifiice  his  landlord  than  trouble  the  public  with  nods,  for  such  I  call 
his  answers  to  the  queries  of  Lucius, 

"  My  troubling  you  at  present  is  not  to  answer  such  a  driveller;  bat  on 
reading  this  morning  the  letter  in  your  paper  signed  with  the  long  name,  I 
found  that,  at  last,  Mr,  Lucius  was  catched.  Tour  correspondent,  however, 
deals  very  tenderly  with  him,  being  sensible,  I  suppose,  of  the  ticklishness  of 
the  ground.  As  an  admirer  of  the  spirit  of  Lucius,  and  being  thoroughly 
acquainted  with  the  iinus  and  circumstances  in  dispute,  allow  me  to  give  the 
true  edition,  by  which  it  will  appear'  that  Mr,  Chrononhotonthohgos  does  not 
mend  the  matter  by  his  wond^M  discovery. 

"  Lucius  begins  on  Thursday,  the  4th  of  August,  whereas  in  truth  it  was  on 
Thursday,  the  28th  of  July,  that  Sir  Jeifery  Amherst  came  to  town,  and 
finding  that  Lord  Hillsborough  had  been  at  his  house,  he  immediately  waited 
on  his  Lordship,  when  he  had  the  first  intimation  of  his  affidr,  Lord  Hills- 
borough's letter  having  been  sent  to  Sir  Jeffery's  house  in  the  country.  The 
very  next  day,  viz.  Friday,  the  29th,  Lord  Boutetort  kissed  hands  on  hit 
appointment  to  that  government  which  the  day  before  had  been  ofiisred  to 
Sir  Jeffery ;  and  on  the  80th  Sir  Jeffery  sent  the  requests  in  writing  to  the 
Duke  of  Grafton,  which  have  been  by  the  ministerial  hirelings  termed 
demands,  and  which  have  not  been  fitirly  represented.  Sir  Jeffery  did  not 
fix  on  the  coat  mt»e«  as  the  only  grant,  but  left  it  to  administration  to  give 
that,  or  any  other  which  might  be  more  convenient,  to  enable  him  to  support 
the  dignity  he  requested ;  nor  did  he  ask  for  a  sepatute  grant  of  lands  as  has 
been  asserted.  That  Sir  Je£Rery  Amherst  speaks  of  Lord  Hillsborough  in 
terms  like  a  gentleman  I  can  easily  believe,  as  he  is  not  capable  of  acting 
otherwise  to  a  nobleman  who  has  the  honour  of  hein/r  one  of  his  ]fti^eet/f 


LUCIUS  TO  THE  EARL  OF  HILLSBOROUGH.    233 


LETTER  XLIi; 


%y  THE  FJLRL  OF  HILLSBOROUGH. 

Mt  LcfiD,  September  15, 1768. 

There  is  no  surer  sign  of  a  weak  head  than  a  settled  de* 
pravity  of  heart.  A  base  action  is  a  disorder  of  the  mind,  and 
next  to  the  folly  of  doing  it  is  the  folly  which  defends  it. 
Had  the  letter  signed  Lucius  never  been  answered,  you  would 
not  have  so  shamefully  betrayed  the  weakness  of  your  cause, 
and  your  silence  might  have  been  interpreted  into  a  conscious- 
ness of  innocence.  The  question  is  now  exhausted,  for  the 
public  is  convinced.  How  well  or  ill  we  have  argued  is  o^ 
infinitely  less  importance  than  the  integrity  of  facts.  Yei 
even  facts,  though  separately  true,  will  prove  nothing  if  the 
order  in  which  they  happened  be  confounded.  Take  it  finally, 
my  Lord,  and  disprove  it  if  you  can.  Lord  Boute torts 
appointment  was  fixed  on  or  before  Sunday.  You  called  at 
Sir  Jeffery  Amherst*s  on  the  Wednesday  following.  He  was 
not  in  tow^n,  but  you  saw  him  next  day  (Thursday).  You 
then  told  him  that  such  a  measure  was  in  contemplation,  but 
far  from  naming  his  successor,  you  did  not  tell  him  that  his 
successor  was  appointed.  Yet  Lord  Boutetort  kissed  hands 
the  next  morning  (Friday),  and  the  first  notice  Sir  Jeffery 
Amherst  received  of  his  Lordship*s  appointment  was  by  aa 
express  sent  to  him  that  evening  by  his  brother. 

That  you  are  a  civil,  polite  person  is  true.  Few  men  un- 
derstand the  little  morals  better,  or  observe  the  great  ones  less, 
than  your  Lordship.  You  can  bow  and  smile  in  an  honest 
man's  face,  while  you  pick  his  pocket.  These  are  the  virtues 
of  a  court  in  which  your  education  has  not  been  neglected. 
In  any  other  school  you  might  have  learned  that  simplicity 
and  integrity  are  worth  them  all.  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst  was 
fighting  the  battles  of  this  country,  while  you,  my  Lord,  the 
darling  child  >f  prudence  and  urbanity,  were  practising  the 

■ervants ;  but  tbit  he  wai  pleated  at  the  treatment  he  received  I  abeolvtely 
dmy,  at  it  must  be  evident  to  the  world,  from  what  followed  the  appointment 
of  Ijord  Boutetort,  that  he  thought  hjoiAi  groetly  affnmJitd. 

**  Coxb=oiok" 


234         XISCELLAKEOUS  LETTERS  ASCRIBED  TO  JUNIIW. 

generous  arts  of  a  courtier,   and  securing  an  bonourablti 
interest  in  the  antechamber  of  a  favourite. 

As  a  man  of  abilities  for  public  business,  your  first  experi- 
ment has  been  unfortunate.  Your  circular  letter  to  tiie  Ame- 
rican governors,  both  for  matter  and  compositioi^  is  a  per 
formance  which  a  school-boy  ought  to  blush  for.  The  import- 
ance and  difficulty  of  the  occasion  gave  you  a  fair  opportunity 
of  showing  by  what  talents  you  were  qualified  for  the  station 
of  a  minister.  The  assembly  of  Massachusets  Bay,  not  con* 
tented  with  their  own  efforts  to  throw  off  their  allegiance, 
solicit  the  other  colonies  to  unite  with  them  in  measures  of 
the  same  tendency  and  spirit.  A  resolution  of  this  extraor- 
dinary nature  demanded  the  whole  attention  of  government* 
and  yours  in  particular.  Let  us  see  how  you  have  treated  it. 
Instead  of  a  clear  precise  instruction  to  each  governor — in- 
stead of  separate  instructions  adapted  to  the  temper,  circum- 
stances, and  interests  of  the  several  provinces,  wherein  yoa 
might  have  shown  your  political  abilities  as  well  as  your 
knowledge  of  that  country,  what  have  you  done  ?  In  a  cir- 
cular letter  of  twenty  or  thirty  lines  (conceived  in  the  sama 
terms  to  all  the  governors)  you  tell  them :  — 

**  That  this  measure  is  of  a  dangerous  and  fieustious  tendency.'* 
A  most  wonderful  discovery. 

"  That  it  is  calculated  to  inflame  the  minds  of  his  Mcgesty's 
subjects."     WJtat  else  do  you  think  was  meemt  by  it  f 

**An  unwarrantable  combination.'*  That's  the  question 
wi$h  THEM,  and  why  did  you  not  prove  it  sof 

"  That  it  excites  an  oroesition  to  parliament."  What  other 
design  in  the  name  of  joUy  could  be  proposed  byitf 

"  That  it  subverts  the  true  principles  of  the  constitution.'* 
Which  they  utterly  deny. 

What  are  these  but  the  loose  hackneyed  terms  of  office, 
which  make  no  impression  because  they  convey  no  argument 
and  hardly  a  determinate  meaning  ?  You  have  not  suggested 
a  single  motive  to  any  one  of  the  colonies  why  they  should 
not  unite  with  the  assembly  of  Boston.  This  task  you  leave 
to  the  governors,  and  if  they  find  it  an  easy  one,  so  much  the 
better.  Your  conclusion  however  is  a  masterpiece.  You 
desire  the  governors  to  prevail  with  their  assemblies  to  take 
no  notice  of  the  requisition  from  Boston,  which  will  bs  treat 
ing  it  with  the  contempt  it  deserves     What,  my  Lord,  do  joQ 


LUCnJS  TO  THE  SARL  OF  HU.IilBOBOUOH.  280 

fioriously  think  that  a  formal  attempt  to  unite  the  whole  con* 
tinent  of  America  in  rel>ellion  against  this  country  desenres 
nothing  hut  the  silent  indifference  of  contempt?  Is  this  the 
language  of  husiness  or  attention?  Your  letter,  my  Lord, 
does  indeed  deserve  contempt,  hut  the  enterprises  of  the  colo- 
nies are  of  other  importance.  They  call  for  other  measures 
and  other  ministers,  and  be  assured  that  when  parliament 
meets,  unless  you  intend  to  govern  without  one,  neither  you 
nor  your  companions  will  be  permitted  to  ruin  this  country 

with  impunity. 

LUCIUS. 

P.S.  A  friend  of  mine  has  taken  the  pains  to  collect  a  number 
of  the  epithets  with  which  Lord  Hillsborough  has  been  pleased 
to  honour  me  in  the  course  of  our  correspondence.  I  shall  lay 
them  before  the  public  in  one  view,  as  a  specimen  of  his  liOra* 
ship  8  urbanity  and  sinffular  condescension  i-^ 

1.  Wretched  scribbler. 

2.  Worthless  fellow. 

3.  Vile  incendiary. 

4.  False  liar»  in  oppositum  to  a  true  one, 
6.  Snarler. 

6.  Contemptible  thing. 

7.  Abandoned  tool  of  opposition,  and  diabolical  miscreant 

8.  Impudent  scurrilous  wretch. 

9.  Rascal  and  scoundreL  pcusim, 

10.  Barking  cur,  hy  way  of  distinction  from 

1 1.  Barking  animal,  cum  muku  aHis. 

To  all  which  I  shall  only  say  that  his  Lordship*s  arguments 
are  upon  a  level  with  his  politeness. 

P.S.  I  acknowledge  a  mistake  the  moment  I  perceive  it. 
I  have  advanced  the  transaction  between  Lord  Hillsborough 
and  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst  too  forward  by  one  complete  week 
But  the  days  of  the  week,  the  feusts,  and  the  order  in  which 
they  succeeded  one  another,  are  the  same.  You  see  plainly 
that  my  arguments  are  not  affected  by  this  mistake,  if  tliey 
had,  I  should  have  acknowledged  it  without  hesitation. 


236  MISCELLANEOUS   LETTERS  ASCBIBED  TO.JUNTUg. 


LETTER  XLIV. 

TO  THE  EARL  OF  HILT5BO  ROUGH. 

Ht  Lord,  September  20, 1768. 

Permit  me  to  have  the  honour  of  introducing  you  to  a  very 
amiable  and  valuable  acquaintance.  Mr.  Ford  is  the  gentle- 
man I  mean.  Your  Lordship  will  forgive  the  timidity  and 
bashfulness  of  his  first  address,  and,  considering  your  quality, 
condescend  to  make  him  some  advances.  There  is  a  similarity 
in  your  circumstances,  to  say  nothing  of  your  virtues  and  un- 
derstanding, which  may  lay  the  foundation  of  a  solid  friend- 
ship between  you  for  the  rest  of  your  lives.  Undoubtedly 
you  are  not  quite  unacquainted  with  a  character  on  which  you 
appear  to  have  formed  your  own.  His  case  was  singular,  my 
Lord,  and  cannot  fail  of  exciting  some  emotions  of  sympathy 
m  your  Lordship's  breast.  This  worthy  man  found  himself 
exposed  to  a  most  malicious  prosecution  for  perjury.  A  profli- 
gate jury  found  him  guilty,  and  a  cruel  jadge  pronounced  his 
sentence  of  imprisonment,  "pillory,  and  transportation.  His 
mind  was  a  good  deal  distressed  in  the  course  of  this  affair  (for 
he  too  is  a  man  of  delicate  feelings),  but  his  character,  like  yours, 
was  above  the  reach  of  malice.  Not  to  keep  your  Lordship  any 
longer  in  pain,  I  have  the  pleasure  of  telling  you  that,  when  law 
and  justice  had  done  their  worst,  a  lady,  in  whom  he  seldom 
places  any  confidence  at  cards,  was  generous  enough  to  stand 
his  friend.  Fortune  discovered  a  flaw  in  the  indictment ;  and 
now,  my  Lord,  in  spite  of  an  iniquitous  prosecution,  in  spite  of 
conviction  and  sentence,  he  stands  as  fair  in  his  reputation  as 
ever  he  did.  Your  Lordship  will  naturally  be  struck  with  the 
resemblance  between  your  case  and  his.  Facts  were  so  par- 
ticularly stated  against  you  that  they  could  not  be  denied ;  the 
order  in  which  they  happened  was  demonstrated,  and  sentence 
was  pronounced  by  the  public.  The  affair  was  over,  when  up 
gets  Tommy  Ford,  and  discovers  that  the  whole  transaction 
passed  in  the  last  week  of  July  instead  of  the  first  in  August. 
This  mistake,  as  it  brought  the  object  nearer  to  us,  I  called 
ndvancing.  In  your  Lordship's  country  I  presume  it  may 
properly  be  called  a  retreat.     Here,  however,  the  comparisoD 


LUCIUS  TO  THE  EARL  OF  HILLSBOROUGH.      237 

ends  Your  friend  escaped  by  a  form  of  law.  But  you,  in/ 
Lord,  have  been  tried  at  a  tribunal  of  honour  and  equity.  The 
public,  who  are  your  judges,  will  not  suffer  my  mistake  (how- 
ever it  may  prove  the  badness  of  my  heart  to  acknowledge  it) 
to  quash  the  indictment  against  you.  You  are  convicted  of 
having  done  a  base  and  foolish  action,  in  a  manner  the  most 
despicable  and  absurd.  Your  punishment  attends  you  in. the 
contempt  and  detestation  of  mankind. 

Your  Lordship  has  been  pleased  to  publish  a  long  letter  in 
the  Gazetteer,  to  prove  that  all  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst  s  military 
services  are  a  mere  fiction.  You  did  not  sign  it,  indeed,  be- 
cause you  had  lately  signed  another,  containing  the  most  ex- 
press and  authentic  acknowledgment  of  those  services  in  a 
style  of  applause  not  very  distant  from  flattery.  You  will  not 
now,  it  seems,  allow  him  any  share  in  the  reduction  of  Louis- 
bourg,  or  the  conquest  of  Canada.  Perhaps,  after  all,  he  never 
was  in  America.  I  am  not  a  soldier,  my  Lord,  nor  will  I  pre- 
tend to  determine  what  share  of  honour  a  general  is  entitled 
to  for  success,  who  must  have  borne  the  whole  blame  and  dis- 
grace if  he  bad  failed.  Had  the  event  been  unfavourable,  his 
officers,  I  dare  say,  would  have  been  willing  enough  to  yield 
their  concern  in  it  to  their  commander-in-chief.  As  to  the  rest, 
I  have  heard  from  military  men  that  the  judgment  and  capacity 
which  make  resistance  useless  or  impracticable  are  rated 
much  higher  than  even  the  resolution  which  overcomes  it 
When  you,  my  Lord,  and  AJr.  Ford  are  forgotten,  this  country 
will  remember  with  gratitude,  that  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst  had 
the  honour  of  making  sbcteen  French  battalions  prisoners  of 
war ;  that  he  carried  on  the  whole  war  in  America  at  an  ex- 
pense less  than  the  fortunes  which  some  individuals  had  ac- 
quired by  contracts  and  management  in  Germany ;  and  that 
he  did  not  put  the  savings  into  his  own  pocket. 

If  a  British  peerage  be  too  high  a  reward  for  him,  at  least 
do  him  justice.  Do  not  assure  the  public  that  he  was  no' 
eontented  with  a  revenue  of  four  thousand  pounds  a  year, 
when  you  know  that  the  income  of  his  government  and  twtr 
regiments  did  not  exceed  two  thousand  three  hundred,  and 
that,  until  he  was  positively  outraged,  he  never  complaiiied 
As  I  profess  dealing  ir  facts,  take  the  account : — 


338         MtSGELULKSOUS  LETTEBS  ASCRIBED   TO  dlTNIUS. 

Government  of  Virginia      .  •        .£1500 

Fifteenth  regiment     .        .  600 

Commandant  of  the  60th    .        .  QOO 


2300 
As  to  a  peerage,  you  would  have  done  well  to  consider  upoc 
what  sort  of  people  this  honour  has  heen  conferred  for  ten 
years  past  Among  the  rest,  we  should  he  glad  to  know  what 
were  your  Lordships  services  or  merits  when  you  were 
created  Baron  of  Harwiclu  I  take  for  granted  that  they  were 
of  a  different  complexion  from  those  of  Sir  J.  A.,  since  they 
have  heen  so  differently  rewarded. 

Here  I  shall  conclude.  You  have  sent  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst  to 
the  plough.  You  have  left  him  poor  in  every  article  of  which 
a  false  &wning  minister  could  deprive  him ;  but  you  have  lefD 
him  rich  in  the  esteem,  the  love,  and  veneration  of  his  country. 
You  cannot  now  recall  him  by  any  offer  of  wealth  or  honours. 
Yet  I  foretell  that  a  time  will  come  when  you  yourself  will  be 
the  cause  of  his  return.  Proceed,  my  Lord,  as  you  have 
begun,  and  you  will  soon  reduce  this  country  to  an  extremity 
in  which  the  wisest  and  best  subjects  must  be  called  upon,  and 
muit  be  employed.    Till  then  e^joy  your  triumph. 

LUCIUS. 


LETTER  XLV. 

TO  THE  FBINTEB  OF  THE  PUBLIC  ADVERTISER. 

Sib,  October  6, 1768. 

Since  my  last  letter  was  printed*,  a  question  has  been  stated 
in  the  newspapers,  which  I  think  it  incumbent  upon  me  as  an 
honest  man  to  answer.  Admitting  my  representation  of  the 
melancholy  state  of  this  country  and  of  public  credit  to  be 
strictly  true,  "  what  good  purpose  can  it  answer  to  discover 
such  truths,  and  to  lay  our  weakness  open  to  the  world?" 
One  would  think  such  a  question  hardly  wanted  a  reply.  If 
a  real  misfortune  were  lessened  by  concealment ;  if,  by  shutting 
our  eyes  to  our  weakness,  we  could  give  our  enemies  au 
«piiuou  of  our  strength,  none  but  a  traitor  would  withdraw 

•  MiNeUaaeoM  Latter,  Now  9^ 


▲TnCUS  TO  THE  PUBLIC  ADTEBTISEB.  239 

the  veil  which  covered  the  nakedness  of  his  country.  But  if 
the  contrary  be  true,  if  concealment  serves  only  to  nourish 
and  increase  the  mischief,  the  conclusion  is  direct.  A  good 
subject  will  endeavour  to  rouse  the  attention  of  his  countiy; 
he  will  give  the  alarm,  and  point  out  the  danger  against  which 
she  ought  to  provide.  The  policy  of  concealment  is  no  better 
than  the  wisdom  of  a  prodigal,  who  wastes  his  estate  with- 
out reflection,  and  has  not  courage  enough  to  examine  his 
accounts. 

In  my  last  letter  I  foretold  the  great  fall  of  the  stocks, 
which  has  since  happened,  and  I  now  do  not  scruple  to  foretell 
that  they  must  and  will  fall  muoh  lower.  Tet  I  am  not 
moved  by  the  arts  of  stockjobbers,  or  by  temporary  rumours, 
magnified,  if  not  created,  for  particular  purposes  in  the  alley 
These  artifices  are  directed  to  maintain  a  fluctuation,  not  a 
continued  fall.  The  principles  on  which  my  reasoning  is 
founded  are  taken  generally  from  the  state  of  France  and  of 
this  country.  When  I  see  our  natural  enemy  strong  enough 
not  only  to  elude  a  material  article  of  treaty  *,  but  to  set  us 
at  defiance  while  they  conquer  a  kingdom  f ;  and  when  I  com- 
bine this  appearance  of  strength  with  their  natural  restless- 
ness, I  cannot  doubt  of  their  taking  the  first  opportunity  to 
recover  their  lost  honour  by  a  fresh  declaration  of  war.  On 
the  other  hand,  considering  the  hostile  temper  of  the  colonies 
towards  us,  the  oppressive  weigbt  of  a  monstrous  debt  (to 
which  a  peace  of  six  years  has  scarce  given  a  sensible  relief), 
and,  above  all,  the  misery,  weakness,  and  distraction  of  our 
interior  government,  I  cannot  have  a  doubt  that  our  enemies 
now  have,  or  in  a  very  little  time  will  have,  the  fairest  oppor- 
tunity they  can  wish  for  to  force  us  into  a  war.  The  con- 
clusion to  be  drawn  from  these  premises  is  obvious.  It  amount^ 
to  a  moral  certainty,  and  leaves  no  room  for  hope  or  appre- 
hension. 

To  these,  which  are  tbe  most  important  circumstances  of 
our  situation,  may  well  be  added  the  high  price  of  labour,  the 
decay  of  trade,  and  the  ruinous  system  on  which  it  is  co^ 
ducted.  Every  minuter  article  conspires  against  us.  The 
deficiency  of  the  civil  list  must  be  paid,  and  cannot  be  paid 

*  HiB  Mott  Catholic  Majesty,  being  a  branch  of  the  Boarbon  dynasty — im 
tbe  lefoaal  of  hit  ainitten  to  diicharge  the  Manilla  ranaQOU 
f  Coniea. 


240  MISCELLANEOUS  LFTTRIIfl   ASCRIBED   TO  JCKinS. 

with  less  than  700,000/.  The  India  Company  will  yield  ta 
no  t€rms  which  are  not  founded  on  an  express  acknowledg 
ment  of  their  exclusive  property  in  their  conquests  in  Asia. 
How  far  their  pretensions  are  just,  is  at  least  a  doubtful  ques- 
tion. Whether  parliament  will  divest  them  of  this  property 
by  a  mere  declaratory  law,  is  a  matter  of  the  most  important 
consideration.  It  would  be  a  dreadful  precedent,  because  it 
would  shake  every  security  of  private  property.  Yet,  even  ii 
that  were  determined,  another  question  remains  full  of  dif- 
ficulty and  danger ;  that  is,  in  what  manner  the  public  will 
avail  themselves  of  this  great  right,  decided  by  nothing  but  a 
vote  of  parliament. 

Sir,  I  am  not  affected  by  the  rumours  of  the  day.  If  the 
stocks  rise  or  fall  upon  a  report  of  tranquillity  or  tumult  at 
Boston*,  I  am  satisfied  that  it  is  owing  to  the  arts  and 
management  of  stockjobbers.  But  I  see  die  spirit  which  has 
gone  abroad  through  the  colonies,  and  I  know  what  conse- 
quences that  spirit  must  and  wiU  produce.  If  it  be  deter- 
mined to  enforce  the  authority  of  the  legislature,  the  event 
will  be  uncertain;  but  if  we  yield  to  the  pretensions  of 
America,  there  is  no  further  doubt  about  the  matter.  From 
that  moment  they  become  an  independent  people,  they  open 
their  trade  with  the  rest  of  the  world,  and  England  is  undone 

In  these  circumstances,  calamitous  as  they  are,  I  yet  think 
the  uniform  direction  of  a  great  and  able  minister  might  do 
much.  His  earliest  care,  I  am  persuaded,  would  be  to  pro- 
vide a  fund  to  support  the  first  alarm  and  expense  of  a  rupture 
with  France.  If  prepared  to  meet  a  war,  he  might  perhaps 
avoid  it.  His  next  object  would  be  to  form  a  plan  of  agree- 
ment with  the  colonies.  He  would  consent  to  yield  some 
ground  to  the  Americans,  if  it  were  possible  to  receive  a 
security  from  th^m  that  they  never  would  advance  beyond  the 
line  then  drawn,  upon  conditions  mutually  agreed  on.  By  an 
equitable  offer  of  this  kind,  he  would  certainly  unite  this 
country  in  the  support  of  his  measures,  and  I  am  persuaded 
he  would  have  the  reasonable  part  of  the  Americans  of  his 
side. 

These,  Sir,  unfortunately  for  us,  are  views  too  high  and 
important  even  to  be  thought  of  while  we  are  governed  as  wa 

*  See  note  to  JunioA,  Letter  89«  roL  i.  i».  20^ 


TEMPOBUM  FELIOTTAS  TO   THE   PUBLIC   ADVEBTISSB.      241 

are.  I  would  not  desccna  to  a  reproachful  word  against  men 
whose  |)ersons  I  hardly  know :  but  it  is  impossible  for  an 
honest  man  to  behold  the  circumstances  to  which  a  weak, 
distracted  administration  has  reduced  us  without  feeling  one 
pang  at  least  for  the  approaching  ruin  of  Great  Britain. 

ATTICUS. 


LETTER  XLVI 

TO  THE   PRINTER  OF  THE   PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 

Sib,  October  12, 1768. 

I  BELIEVE  one  may  challenge  any  time  or  country  to  produce 
more  noble  instances  of  a  free  and  manly  spirit  than  have 
appeared  in  several  of  your  late  correspondents.  Without 
direction,  without  information,  without  promise  or  hope  of  re- 
ward, without  personal  friendship,  favour,  or  acquaintance, 
several  heroes  of  the  pen  have  boldly  stood  forth  and  gene- 
rously dared  to  defend  a  great  minister  of  state,  although  in 
the  plenitude  of  his  power,  and  invested  with  the  patronage 
to  an  infinite  number  of  lucrative  offices.  This,  I  say,  is  true 
virtue ;  and  this  virtue  your  correspondents,  with  various  hard 
names,  have  solemnly  assured  us  they  possess. 

They  have  demonstrated  to  the  satisfaction  of  the  public, 
against  the  calumnies  of  a  dull  writer,  called  LuciuSj  that 
every  part  of  the  late  conduct  of  Lord  Hillsborough  with 
regard  to  Sir  J.  Amherst  is  just  what  it  ought  to  have  been ; 
nothing  ill-intentioned,  nothing  either  deficient  or  redundant; 
and  that .  it  may  well  serve  for  a  pattern  upon  all  similar 
occasions. 

However,  it  sometimes  happens  a  little  perversely,  that  the 
very  best  actions  have  every  now  and  then- consequences  that 
are  somewhat  odd — I  do  not  say  absolutely  bad ;  but  only  a 
little  imtoward.  Thus  though  Lord  Hillsborough  has  done 
his  duty  to  a  miracle  in  all  parts  of  this  business,  and  that  his 
character  comes  like  gold  out  of  the  furnace  of  this  fierce 
contest,  yet  so  it  happens,  that  the  event,  and  the  sole  event, 
of  all  this  upright  intention  and  wise  action  is,  that  the  nation 
has  at  a  criticcd  time  lost  to  her  service  Sir  J.  Amherst,  and 
has  gained  to  it  Lord  Boutetort 


943  MISCELLANEOUS   LETTKBS  ASCRIBED   TO  JU'SIXJS. 

This  is  a  little  crooked  with  regard  to  the  political  efifoct  of 
the  measure ;  but  I  hope  it  is  set  to  rights  by  the  moral  con- 
sequence. Rewards  and  punishments  are  so  distributed  as  to 
point  out  for  the  future  to  all  people,  in  the  civil  or  militaxy 
lines,  the  conduct  they  ought  to  pursue,  in  such  a  manner 
that  it  is  impossible  they  should  mistake  their  way.  For 
Sir  JefFery  Amherst  has  lost  2300/.  a  year  by  his  folly — ^Lord 
Hillsborough  and  Lord  Boutetort  have  each  acquired  as  much 
by  their  wisdom.  I  cannot  forbear  to  congratulate  the  public 
upon  all  these  favourable  appearances. 

I  am,  Sir, 
Your  humble  Servant, 

TBMFORUM  FBLIOITAS. 


LETTER  XLVII 

TO  THE   PRINTER  OF  THE   PUBLIC  ADYERTISEB. 

I 

SiA,  October  15, 1768. 

Your  correspondent,  who  calls  himself  \^  Friend  to  Public 
Credit,  has  given  us  one  of  the  most  extravagant  conceits  that 
ever  entered  into  the  brain  of  a  politician.  He  assures  us 
that  a  rupture  with  France  or  Spain  is  highly  improbable, 
because  the  secretary  of  state  *  for  that  department  possesses 
no  share  in  his  master's  confidence,  and  is  in  open  enmity 
with  his  colleagues  in  office.  Supposing  the  argument  to  be 
just,  let  us  see  how  far  it  will  extend.  One  of  his  Majesty *a 
ministers  is  hated  and  distrusted ;  ergo,  a  war  is  improbable. 
But  if  two  of  them  should  happen  to  be  in  that  unpleasant 
situation,  the  improbability  would  increase,  and  so  we  should 
proceed  to  an  inevitable  conclusion.  If  all  the  ministry  were 
separately  suspected  by  their  master,  and  reciprocally  de- 
tested by  one  another  (which  I  fancy  is  not  hi  from  the 
truth),  a  declaration  of  war  would  be  the  last  thing  to  be  ex- 
pected. At  this  rate  the  peace  of  this  country  is  established 
upon  a  foundation  equally  new  and  secure — upon  the  dis- 
traction of  the  councils  by  which  we  are  governed.  What  4 
pity  it  is  that  not  one  article  in  this  pretty  syllogism  is  true  I 
1  agree  with  joiir  correspondent,  that  when  a  nation  ir 

*  Ltrd  Sheiborne. 


ATTICUS  TO   THE   PUBLIC   ADTEBTISEB.  243 

governed  as  wo  are,  our  constant  prayer  should  be.  Give  peace 
in  the  time  of  these  ministers,  0  Lord !  But  I  fear  that  the 
same  reasons  which  ought  to  keep  us  quiet  will  operate  in  a 
contrary  direction  upon  our  enemies.  I  fear  they  only  wait 
antil  the  differences  with  our  colonies  and  the  divisions 
among  ourselves  are  arrived  at  a  crisis,  and  that  then  they 
will  overwhelm  us  with  an  open  war.  In  the  mean  time  the 
House  of  Bourbon  are  labouring  to  unite  their  strength,  and 
to  extend  the  bounds  of  their  dominion.  Their  insatiable 
ambition  will  not  spare  even  the  father  of  their  church,  who 
must  be  entirely  dispossessed  of  his  territories,  unless  the 
Protestant  powers  interpose  in  his  defence.  It  was  and  ought 
for  ever  to  be  our  policy  to  support  this  prince  in  his  tem- 
poral power,  without  any  regard  to  his  religion.  If  he  were 
a  Turk,  he  ought  to  be  protected  in  the  possession  of  his 
dominions  against  the  House  of  Bourbon.  Or  are  we  to  sink 
into  a  lethargic  stupidity,  while  the  French  conquer  Corsica 
and  overrun  Italy,  and  sit  with  our  arms  across  until  they 
thunder  at  our  gate  ?  There  is  certainly  some  dreadful  infa- 
tuation which  hangs  over  and  directs  the  councils  of  this 
country.  Our  ministers  drive  us  headlong  to  destruction, 
while  their  emissaries  insult  us  with  assurances  that  the  divi- 
sions among  the  King  s  servants  form  the  best  security  of 
peace  with  our  enemies.  God  knows,  Sir,  it  is  time  to  rouse 
and  shake  off  this  lethargy.  It  is  time  for  parliament  to  in- 
terpose, if  yet  there  be  a  hope  of  saving  Great  Britain.  Our 
last  constitutional  resource  is  vested  in  parliament.  By  whose 
advice  or  neglect  the  French  were  suffered  to  land  in  Corsica 
should  be  one  of  the  first  objects  of  their  inquiry,  and  whether 
French  money  has  been  given  or  received  here.  Eveiy  mea- 
sure of  government  opens  an  ample  field  for  a  parliamentaiy 
inquisition.  If  this  resource  should  fail  us,  our  next  and 
latest  appeal  must  be  made  to  heaven. 

BEUTUS. 


LETTER  XLVIII. 

TO  THB  FBINTFa  OF  THE   PUBLIO  ADYEBTISER. 

SiBy  October  19, 1768. 

We    are   assured   by  the   advocates   of  the   ministry,  that 
while  Lord  Shelbume  is  secretary  of  state  we  can  have  iia 

B  d 


244  MISCELLANEOUS   LErTERS   ASCRIBED   TO  JUNIUJI. 

reason  to  apprehend  a  rupture  with  France  or  Spain.  This 
proposition  is  singular  enough,  and  I  believe  tarns  upon  a  re- 
finement very  distant  from  the  simplicity  of  common  sense. 
But,  admitting  it  to  be  self-evident,  the  conclusion  is  such  as 
I  apprehend  your  correspondent,  who  signs  himself  A  Friend 
to  Public  Credit,  did  not  clearly  foresee.  If  Lord  Shelbume's 
remaining  in  office  constitutes  a  security  of  peace,  his  being 
suddenly  removed  must  amount  to  a  declaration  of  war. 
Now,  Sir,  the  fact  is,  that  his  Lordship's  removal  has  been  for 
some  weeks  in  agitation,  and  is  within  these  few  days  abso- 
lutely determined*.  If  I  were  a  party  writer,  the  indiscre- 
tion of  the  ministerial  advocates  would  give  me  as  many  ad- 
vantages as  even  the  wretched  conduct  of  the  ministry  them- 
selves. But  I  write  for  the  public,  and  in  that  view  hold 
myself  far  above  a  little  triumph  over  men  whose  compo- 
sitions are  as  weak  as  the  cause  they  defend  f . 

In  my  former  letters  I  have  given  you  a  melancholy  bat 
a  true  representation  of  the  state  of  this  country.  Every 
packet  from  America  and  the  Continent  confirms  it.  The  de 
monstration  of  facts  follows  the  probability  of  argument,  and 
the  prediction  of  the  present  hour  is  the  experience  of  the 
next.  If  you  will  now  permit  me  to  ofTer  my  opinion  of 
the  great  persons  under  whose  administration  we  are  re- 
duced to  this  deplorable  state,  the  public  will  be  enabled 
to  judge  whether  these  are  the  men  most  likely  to  relieve  us 
from  it.  The  curiosity  of  personal  malice  shall  make  no  part 
of  this  inquiry.  As  public  men  we  have  a  right  to  be  ac- 
quainted with  their  real  characters,  because  we  are  interested 
in  their  public  conduct. 

When  the  Duke  of  Grafton  first  entered  into  office,  it 
was  the  fashion  of  the  times  to  suppose  that  young  men 
might  have  wisdom  without  experience.  They  thought  so 
themselves,  and  the  most  important  affairs  of  this  country 
were  committed  to  the  first  trial  of  their  abilities.  His 
Grace  had  honourably  fieshed  his  maiden  sword  in  the  field 
of  opposition,  and  had  gone  through  all  the  discipline  of  the 
minority  with  credit.  He  dined  at  Wildman's,  railed  at 
favourites,  looked  up  to  Lord  Chatham  with  astonishmeiit, 

•  Lord  Shelburne  resigned  October  21, 1768. 

'*•  See  Private  Letter,  No.  5,  anu,  p.  6,  in  which  the  author  makes  t 
similar  remark  upon  the  writers  in  defence  of  the  then  administmtiolu 


jTi-'     ■     ',      \t 


ATTICUS  TO  THE  PUBLIC  ADVEBTISEB.  245 

and  was  the  declared  advocate  of  Mr.  Wilkes.  It  afterwards 
pleased  his  Grace  to  enter  into  administration  with  his 
friend  Lord  Eockingham,  and,  in  a  very  little  time,  it  pleased 
his  Grace  to  ahandon  him.  He  then  accepted  of  the  treasury 
upon  terms  which  Lord  Temple  had  disdained.  For  a  short 
time  his  suhmission  to  Lord  Chatham  was  unlimited.  He 
could  not  answer  a  private  letter  without  Lord  Chatham's 
permission.  I  presume  he  was  then  learning  his  trade,  for 
he  soon  set  up  for  himself.  Until  he  declared  himself  the 
minister,  his  character  had  heen  hut  little  understood.  From 
that  moment  a  system  of  conduct,  directed  by  passion  and 
caprice,  not  only  reminds  us  that  he  is  a  young  man,  hut  a 
young  man  without  solidity  or  judgment.  One  day  he 
desponds  and  threatens  to  resign.  The  next,  he  finds  his 
blood  heated,  and  swears  to  his  friends  he  is  determined  to  go 
on.  In  his  public  measures  we  have  seen  no  proof  either 
of  ability  or  consistency.  The  stamp  act  had  been  repealed 
(no  matter  how  unwisely)  under  the  preceding  administration. 
The  colonies  had  reason  to  triumph,  and  were  returning  to 
their  good  humour.  The  point  was  decided,  when  this  young 
man  thought  proper  to  revive  it.  Without  either  plan  or 
necessity,  he  adopts  the  spirit  of  Mr.  Grenville's  measures, 
and  renews  the  question  of  taxation  in  a  form  more  odious 
and  less  effectual  than  that  of  the  law  which  had  been  re- 
pealed. 

With  respect  to  the  invasion  of  Corsica  *,  it  will  be  mattei 
of  parliamentary  inquiry,  whether  he  has  carried  on  a  secref 
negotiation  with  the  French  court,  in  terms  contradictory  U 
the  resolution  of  council,  and  to  the  instructions  drawn  u)! 
thereupon  by  his  Majesty's  secretary  of  statef.  If  it  shall 
appear  that  he  has  quitted  the  line  of  his  department  to  be- 
tray the  honour  and  security  of  his  country,  and  if  there  be  a 
power  sufi&cient  to  protect  him,  in  such  a  case,  against  public 
justice,  the  constitution  of  Great  Britain  is  at  an  end. 

His  standing  foremost  in  the  persecution  of  Mr.  Wilkes, 

*  See  notes  in  vol.  i.  p.  117.  When,  upon  the  invitation  of  the  GenoeM. 
the  French  invaded  Corsica,  a  remonstrance  was  presented  by  the  English 
minister  at  Paris ;  bat  here  the  resistance  dropped. 

f  A  motion  which  tended  to  an  inquiry  of  this  kind  wqf  made  in  the 
House  of  Commons  by  Hans  Sloane,  Esq. ;  but  the  uninHuencedf  unplq^tdf 
fimpnuumed  majoritif,  thought  proper  to  put  a  negative  upon  it. 


246  msCELLAHEOUS  LETTRBS  ARCQIBEB   TO  JUNIUS 

if  fonner  declarations  and  connections  be  considered,  is  baM 
and  contemptible*.  The  man  whom  he  now  brands  with 
treason  and  blasphemy  but  a  very  few  years  ago  was  the 
Duke  of  Grafton*s  friend,  nor  is  Ms  identity  altered,  except 
by  his  misfortunes.  In  the  last  instance  of  his  Grace's  judg- 
ment and  consistency,  we  see  him,  after  trying  and  deserting 
every  party,  throw  himself  into  the  arms  of  a  set  of  men 
whose  political  principles  he  had  always  pretended  to  abhor. 
These  men  I  doubt  not  will  teach  him  the  folly  of  his  conduct 
better  than  I  can.  They  grasp  at  everything,  and  ¥rill  soon 
push  him  from  his  seat.  His  private  h^tory  would  but  little 
deserve  our  attention,  if  he  had  not  voluntarily  brought  it  into 
public  notice.  I  will  not  call  the  amusements  of  a  young  man 
criminal,  though  I  think  they  become  his  age  better  than  his 
station.  There  is  a  period  at  which  the  most  unruly  passions 
are  gratified  or  exhausted,  and  which  leaves  the  mind  clear 
and  undisturbed  in  its  attention  to  business.  His  Grace*s 
gallantry  would  be  offended  if  we  were  to  suppose  him  within 
many  years  of  being  thus  qualified  for  public  affairs.  As  foi 
the  rest,  making  every  allowance  for  the  frailty  of  human  na- 
ture, I  can  make  none  for  a  continued  breach  of  public 
decorum  f ;  nor  can  I  believe  that  man  very  zealous  for  the 
interest  of  his  country  who  sets  her  opinion  at  defiance.  This 
nobleman,  however,  has  one  claim  to  respect,  since  it  has 
pleased  our  gracious  sovereign  to  make  him  prime  minister  of 
Gi*eat  Britain. 

The  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer  |  is  a  moderate  man,  and 
pretends  to  no  higher  merit  than  that  of  a  humble  as- 
sistant in  office.  If  he  escapes  censure,  he  is  too  prudent  to 
aim  at  applause.  The  necessity  of  bis  affairs  had  separated 
him  from  earlier  friendships  and  connections,  and  if  he  were 
of  any  consequence,  we  might  lament  that  an  honest  man 
should  find  it  necessary  to  disgrace  himself  in  a  post  be  is 
utterly  unfit  for.  But  we  have  other  objects  to  attend  to.  It 
depends  greatly  upon  the  present  management  of  the  finances 
whether  this  country  shall  stand  or  fall.  A  common  clerk  in 
office  may  conduct  the  ordinary  supplies  of  the  year,  but  to 
give  a  sensible  relief  to  public  credit,  or  to  provide  funds 

*  See  Junius,  vol.  i.  p.  151. 

'f*  See  Junius,  toL  i.  p.  166,  APd  Miicellaneoas  Letter  20. 

t  Lord  North. 


ATnOVS  TO  THE  PT7RTJC  ADVEBnSEB.  247 

against  a  rupture  abroad,  are  objects  above  him.  To  remove 
those  oppressions  which  lie  heaviest  upon  trade,  and,  by  the 
same  operation,  to  improve  the  revenue,  demands  a  superior 
capacity,  supported  by  the  most  extensive  knowledge.  To 
vulgar  minds  it  may  appear  unattainable,  because  vulgar 
minds  make  no  distinction  between  the  highly  difficult  and 
the  impossible  *. 

The  Eail  of  Hillsborough f  set  out  with  a  determined  at- 
tachment to  the  court  party,  let  who  would  be  minister.  He 
had  one  vice  less  than  other  courtiers,  for  he  never  even  pre- 
tended to  be  a  patriot.  The  Oxford  election  gave'  him  an 
opportunity  of  showing  some  skill  in  parliamentary  manage- 
ment, while  an  uniform  obsequious  submission  to  his  supe- 
riors introduced  him  into  lucrative  places,  and  crowned  his 
ambition  with  a  peerage.  He  is  now  what  they  call  a  king  s 
man ;  ready,  as  the  closet  directs,  to  be  anything  or  nothing, 
but  always  glad  to  be  employed.  A  new  department,  created 
on  purpose  for  him,  attracted  t  greater  expectation  than  he 
has  yet  been  able  to  support.  In  his  first  act  of  power  he. 
has  betrayed  a  most  miserable  want  of  judgment.  A  pro- 
vision for  Lord  fioutetort  was  not  an  object  of  importance 
sufficient  to  justify  a  risk  of  the  first  impression  which  a  new 
minister  must  give  of  himself  to  the  public.  For  my  own 
part  I  hold  him  in  some  measure  excused,  because  I  am 
persuaded  the  defence  he  has  delivered  privately  to  his  friends 
is  true,  **  That  the  measure  came  from  another  and  a  higher 
quarter."  But  still  he  is  the  tool,  and  ceasing  to  be  criminal 
sinks  into  contempt.  In  his  new  department  I  am  sorry  to 
say  he  has  shown  neither  abilities  nor  good  sense.  His 
letters  to  the  colonies  contain  nothing  but  expressions  equally 
loose  and  violent.  The  minds  of  the  Americans  are  not  to 
be  conciliated  by  a  language  which  only  contradicts  without 
attempting  to  persuade.  His  correspondence,  upon  the  wholop 
is  so  defective  both  in  design  and  composition,  that  it  would 
deserve  our  pity,  if  the  consequences  to  be  dreaded  from  it  did 
not  excite  our  indignation.  This  treatment  of  the  colonies, 
lidded  to  his  refusal  to  present  a  petition  from  one  of  them  to 

*  Sm  Lord  North's  talents  further  discussed  in  the  Letters  of  Joniui,  No. 
84,  whert  he  writer  does  not  appear  to  entertain  a  much  higher  opinion  ai 
them  than  in  his  preuent  address. 

f  Minister  for  the  Colonial  Department 


248  KISCELLANEOnS  LETTEBS    ASCfilBED  TO  JUNIUS. 

the  king  (a  direct  breach  of  the  declaration  of  rights),  will 
naturally  throw  them  all  into  a  flame.  I  protest,  Sir,  I  am 
astonished  at  the  infatuation  which  seems  to  have  directed 
his  whole  conduct  The  other  ministers  were  proceeding  in 
their  usual  course,  without  foreseeing  or  regarding  conse- 
quences ;  but  this  nobleman  seems  to  have  marked  out,  by  a 
determined  choice,  the  means  to  precipitate  our  destruction. 

The  Earl  of  Shelbume  had  initiated  himself  in  business, 
by  carrying  messages  between  the  Earl  of  Bute  and  Mr.  Fox, 
and  was  for  some  time  a  favourite  with  both.  Before  he 
was  an  ensign  he  thought  himself  fit  to  be  a  general,  and  to 
be  a  leading  minister  before  he  ever  saw  a  public  office. 
The  life  of  this  young  man  is  a  satire  on  mankind.  The 
treachery  which  deserts  a  friend,  might  be  a  virtue  compared 
to  the  fawning  baseness  which  attaches  itself  to  a  declared 
enemy.  Lord  Chatham  became  his  idol,  introduced  him  into 
the  most  difficult  department  of  the  state,  and  left  him  there 
to  shift  for  himself.  It  was  a  masterpiece  of  revenge.  Un- 
connected, unsupported,  he  remains  in  office  without  interest 
or  dignity,  as  if  the  income  were  an  equivalent  for  all  loss  of 
reputation.  Without  spirit  or  judgment  to  take  an  advan- 
tageous moment  of  retiring,  he  submits  to  be  insulted,  as 
long  as  he  is  paid  for  it.  But  even  this  abject  conduct  will 
avail  him  nothing.  Like  his  great  archetype,  the  vapour  on 
which  he  rose  deserts  him,  and  now, 

"  Fluttering  his  pennona  vain,  plumb  down  he  drops."  * 

I  cannot  observe  without  reluctance,  that  the  only  man  of 
real  abilities  in  the  present  administration  is  not  an  object 
of  either  respect  or  esteem.  The  character  of  the  Lord  Ghan- 
cellorf  is  a  strong  proof  that  an  able,  consistent,  judicious 
conduct  depends  upon  other  qualities  than  those  of  the  head. 
Passions  and  party,  in  his  Lordship  s  understanding,  had 
united  all  the  extremes.  They  gave  him  to  the  world  in  one 
moment  the  patron  of  natural  liberty,  independent  of  civil 
constitutions,  in  the  next  the  assertor  of  prerogative  inde- 
pendent of  law  J.  How  he  will  advise  the  crown  in  the  pre- 
sent crisis,  is  of  more  importance  to  the  publie  than  to  him- 
self.   His  patronage  of  Mr.  Wilkes  and  of  America  haTe  sod 

*  Milton^  Panulise  Lost,  ii.  f  Lord  CaadsB. 

t  JviiiM.  letter  GO. 


ATnCUS  TO  THE  FDBLTC  ADVERTISER.  249 

eeeded  to  Ids  ^ish.  They  have  given  him  a  peerage,  a  pen- 
sion, and  the  seals ;  and  as  for  his  future  opinions,  he  can 
adopt  none  for  which  he  may  not  find  a  precedent  and  justifi- 
cation in  his  former  conduct. 

The  Earl  of  Chatham — I  had  much  to  say,  but  it  wore 
inhuman  to  persecute,  when  Providence  has  marked  out  the 
example  to  mankind*! 

My  Lord  Granby  is  certainly  a  brave  man,  and  a  generous 
man,  and  both  without  design  or  reflection.  How  far  the 
army  is  improved  under  his  direction  is  another  question. 
His  German  friends  will  all  have  regiments ;  and  it  is  enough 
to  say  of  his  Lordship,  that  he  has  too  much  good  humour  to 
contradict  the  reigning  minister. 

The  length  of  this  letter  will  not  permit  me  to  do  parti- 
cular justice  to  the  Duke  of  Bedford's  friends ;  neither  is  it 
necessary.  With  one  united  view  they  have  but  one  charac- 
ter. My  Lord  Gower  and  Lord  Weymouth  were  distressed, 
and  Rigby  was  insatiable.  The  school  they  were  bred  in 
taught  them  how  to  abandon  their  friends  without  desertqig 
their  principles.  There  is  a  littleness  even  in  their  ambition, 
for  money  is  their  first  object.  Their  professed  opinions  upon 
some  great  points  are  so  different  from  those  of  the  party  with 
which  they  are  now  united,  that  the  council-chamber  is  be- 
come a  scene  of  open  hostilities.  While  the  fate  of  Great 
Britain  is  at  stake,  these  worthy  counsellors  dispute  without 
decency,  advise  without  sincerity,  resolve  without  decision, 
and  leave  the  measure  to  be  executed  by  the  man  who  voted 
against  it.  This,  I  conceive,  is  the  last  disorder  of  the  state. 
The  consultation  meets  but  to  disagree.  Opposite  medicines 
are  prescribed,  and  the  last  fixed  on  is  changed  by  the  hand 
that  gives  it. 

Such  is  the  council  by  which  the  best  of  sovereigns  is  ad- 
vised, and  the  greatest  nation  upon  earth  governed.  Sepa- 
rately the  figures  are  only  offensive ;  in  a  group  they  are  for- 
midable. Commerce  languishes,  manufactures  are  oppressed, 
and  public  credit  already  feels  her  approaching  dissolution : 
yet  under  the  direction  of  this  council  we  are  to  prepare 
for  a  dreadful  contest  with  the  colonies,  and  a  war  with  the 

*  His  Lordship  had  resigned  his  post  of  lord  privy  seal  three  days  previo'is 
to  the  date  of  this  letter,  and  was  succeeded  in  that  office,  on  the  2ni  ol 
November  foUoving,  by  the  Earl  of  BristoL 


250  MIBOELLANEOUS   LETTERS   ASOBIBED   TO  JUNIUS. 

whole  house  of  Bourbon.  I  am  not  surprised  that  the  gene- 
rality of  men  should  endeavour  to  shut  their  eyes  to  this 
melancholy  prospect.  Yet  I  am  filled  with  grief  and  indig- 
nation when  I  behold  a  wise  and  gallant  people  lost  in  a 
stupidity  which  does  not  feel,  because  it  will  not  look  foi  ward. 
The  voice  of  one  man  will  hardly  be  heard  when  the  voice  of 
truth  and  reason  is  neglected ;  but  as  far  as  mine  extends, 
the  authors  of  our  ruin  shall  be  marked  out  to  the  public.  I 
will  not  tamely  submit  to  be  sacrificed,  nor  shall  this  country 
perish  without  warning. 

ATTICUS. 


LETTER  XLIX. 

TO   THE   PBINTEB  OP  THE   PUBLIC   ADVEBTISEB. 

Sir,  October  26,  1768. 

The  great  abilities  which  have  distinguished  the  character  of 
the  Earl  of  Rochford  have  justly  procured  him  the  love  of  his 
countrymen,  and  have  entitled  him  to  the  favour  and  protec- 
tion of  his  sovereign :  it  was  therefore  with  universal  appro- 
bation that  the  public  received  the  promises  of  his  advance- 
ment at  this  important  crisis  to  the  important  office  of 
Secretary  of  State.  It  was  with  a  degree  of  hope  to  which 
they  have  long  been  unaccustomed  that  they  flattered  them- 
selves foreign  business  would  now  be  no  longer  neglected. 
They  had  reason  to  expect  much  from  a  man  to  whom  nature 
had  been  lavish,  and  whose  natural  talents,  great  as  they  were, 
must  have  been  considerably  augmented  by  a  long  residence 
and  a  constant  attention  to  business  in  courts  which  are 
perhaps  snperior  to  all  others  in  the  arts  and  mysteries  of 
negotiation.  It  was  now  that  they  felt  themselves  secure  in 
the  assurance  that  the  correspondences  with  the  courts  of 
Paris,  Madrid,  and  Turin,  were  to  be  carried  on  by  a  man 
above  all  others  qualified  for  so  arduous  a  task;  by  a  mau 
who  had  gained  great  reputation  as  an  ambassador  in  each 
of  them. 

It  was  in  vain  that  the  enemies  to  administration  endea- 
voured to  suggest  that  that  nobleman  was  not  singled  out  on 
account  of  his  superior  abilities,  but  on  account  of  his  neiitra- 


WHX?  TO   THK   PUBLIC   AnnSRTISKB*  261 

lity  and  non-attachment  to  any  partienltir  men  or  m(  asures ; 
it  was  in  vain  that  they  represented  his  nomination  as  a  mero 
act  of  necessity,  resulting  from  the  incapacity  of  the  leaders 
to  promote  any  other  without  widening  their  hottom,  which 
was  a  mesisure  that,  ahove  all  others,  they  most  apprehended. 

These  suggestions  had  little  or  no  eflfect ;  they  were  either 
totally  disbelieved  or  disregarded ;  the  consequence  was  good, 
and  Uie  public  were  not  at  all  curious  to  know  the  cause ; 
their  joy,  that  such  a  measure  was  to  take  place,  was  only 
equalled  by  their  surprise ;  and  as  their  joy  proceeded  from  a 
reflection  of  the  past,  as  it  related  to  Lord  Rochford,  they 
were  inattentive  to  the  present,  as  it  relates  to  others. 

What  pity  it  is  that  they  were  so  soon  disappointed,  and 
that  a  joy  so  well  founded  was  destined  to  be  of  so  short  a 
duration.  In  proportion  as  they  were  elevated  with  the  hopes 
of  his  being  tsken  into  office,  so  are  they  dejected  by  the 
manner  of  his  appointment.  The  course  and  order  of  business 
appears  to  have  been  violated,  and  that  vacancy,  to  which  his 
Lordship  ought  to  have  succeeded,  and  which  he  was  so  well 
qualified  to  fill,  has  been  suffered  to  be  possessed  by  another 
altogether  a  stranger  to  the  principal  wheels  of  those  machines 
which  it  becomes  his  duty  to  regulate ;  and  the  abilities  of  tht 
Earl  have  been  as  far  as  possible  thwarted  by  his  being 
plunged  into  a  correspondence  with  courts  of  whose  maxims 
and  interests  he  is  no  better  qualified  to  judge  than  any  other 
of  his  Majesty's  servants  who  would  make  use  of  as  much 
attention,  and  who  may  be  happily  endowed  with  as  much 
penetration.  It  is  now  then  that  the  public  have  both  cause 
and  inclination  to  ask  a  question,  which  they  before  thought 
useless  and  impertinent:  it  is  now  that  with  horror  they 
reflect  on  the  intelligence  communicated  by  your  correspon- 
dent Atticus  * ;  it  is  now  that  they  tremble  at  the  thoughts  of 
a  secret  negotiation  with  the  French  court  in  relation  to 
Corsica ;  and  it  is  now  that  they  ask,  why  was  Lord  Rochford 
appointed  Secretary  of  State,  and  for  the  Nccthem  depart- 
ment +  ?    . 

WHY  I 

*  See  the  preceding  letter 

■i-  See  this  subject  further  discussed  in  Junius,  Letter  1,  toL  i.  p.  10ft, 


252  MISCELLANEOUS     LETTEBS  A8CBIBED  TO* JUNIUS. 


LETTER  L. 

TO  THE  PBINTEB  OF  THE   PUBLIC   ADVEBTISEB. 

Sn,  October  27,  1768. 

When  an  anonymous  writer  tells  the  public  that  a  great 
minister,  who  happens  to  be  his  particular  friend,  has  given 
him  assurances  of  any  sort,  with  regard  to  state  aflfairs,  the 
authority  is  doubly  suspicious.  In  the  first  place,  that  such 
writers  should  have  such  friends  is  not,  in  the  highest  degree, 
probable.  In  the  next,  it  is  much  to  be  doubted,  whether 
ministers  of  state  always  tell  the  truth  even  to  their  most 
intimate  acquaintance.  I  take  for  granted,  the  author  of  the 
letter,  signed  Plain  Truth  and  Justice*^  is  a  modest  man, 
since  he  expects  an  implicit  reliance  on  the  bare  assertion  of 
a  person  entirely  unknown  to  us.  But  I  fear  he  will  find 
himself  a  little  disappointed,  for  the  public  is  not  to  be 
imposed  upon  by  such  gross  artifices.  The  letters,  in  which 
your  correspondent  Atticus  had  foretold  the  decline  of  public 
credit,  seemed  to  rest  upon  a  very  different  footing.  He  made 
no  assertions  of  his  own,  because  he  neither  required  nor  ex- 
l)ected  any  reliance  on  his  personal  credit  or  authority.  He 
stated  facts  too  notorious  to  be  disputed,  and  he  reasoned  upon 
them  in  a  way  which  there  has  yet  been  no  attempt  to  answer. 
This  is  the  fair  ground  on  which  his  opponents  ought  to  meet 
him.  Vague  assertions  have  no  claim  to  credit,  and,  if  they 
had,  would  amount  to  no  proof.  What  ministers  are  pleased 
to  say,  or  what  their  friends  say  for  them,  is  but  of  little 
moment.  A  man  who  in  the  present  crisis  would  direct  his 
conduct  upon  sure  grounds,  ought  to  examine  the  real  state 
of  public  affairs,  and,  according  as  he  finds  them,  act  with 
prudence  for  himself  and  his  family.  I  know  that  an  artful 
combination  in  the  alley  may,  for  a  short  time,  raise  or  sink 
the  price  of  stocks  a  trifle.  But  no  arts,  no  combination,  can 
support  them  against  the  reality  of  national  distress.  The 
maxim  holds  through  life.  A  beggar  may  cut  a  figure  for  a 
day,  but  his  ruin  is  inevitable,  and  his  creditors  perish  with 
him. 

*  He  alludes  to  a  correspondent  in  the  Public  Adptrtuer,  who  bad  Rpliai 
to  his  former  letter  under  this  signature. 


BBUTUS  TO  THE  PUI^LTG  ADVEBTTSEB.  253 

Your  correspondent  assures  us  that  no  money  in  ill  be 
wanted  for  the  ensuing  year.  With  all  due  respect  to  an 
anonymous  assertion,  I  should  be  glad  to  know  by  what  sort 
of  reasoning  he  would  support  it.  Do  the  ministry  mean  to 
leave  the  debt  on  the  civil  list  unpaid  ?  I  will  tell  him  that 
they  cannot,  dare  not  do  it.  This  debt  amounts  to  above  six 
hundred  thousand  pounds,  and  if  they  can  pay  it  without 
money,  so  much  the  better.  Have  they  made  any  agreement 
with  the  East  India  Company?  No.  Have  they  made  any 
provision  for  outstanding  navy  and  victualling  bills  ?  I  an- 
swer, they  must  whether  they  will  or  no.  Have  the  Bank 
agreed  to  continue  creditors  for  the  last  million  they  advanced 
to  government  ?  I  answer,  that  the  Bank  have  no  confidence 
in  the  present  administration,  and  will  not  trust  them.  As 
to  taking  the  four  per  cents,  entirely  out  of  the  market,  Mr. 
Grenville,  or  an  able  financier  who  possessed  the  confidence 
of  the  public,  might  perhaps  accomplish  it,  but  it  is  not  an 
object  within  the  reach  of  the  present  treasury  board.  They 
talk  of  it  in  their  dreams,  and  forget  it  when  they  wake*. 

These,  Sir,  are  considerations  independent  of  a  war,  which 
hangs  over  us,  and  of  a  contest  with  the  colonies,  which  in  no 
way  can  end  favourably  for  this  country.  As  to  moderate 
qualifying  measures,  I  know  but  one  which  the  Americans 
will  accept  of,  and  that  is  an  absolute  release  from  all  subjec- 
tion. They  will  reject  with  disdain  an  offer  to  be  represented 
in  parliament,  because  they  will  be  independent.  They  found 
the  effect  of  their  last  combination,  and  when  they  demand  a 
repeal  of  an  act  of  the  legislature,  it  must  be  done  without 
conditions.  But,  in  the  name  of  common  sense,  what  useful 
purpose  will  our  submission  answer  ?  Upon  the  repeal  of  the 
stamp  act,  our  e^LportiS  to  America,  instead  of  doubling,  as  had 
been  promised,  diminished  considerably.  What  are  we  doings 
then,  but  surrendering  the  first  essential  rights  and  principles 
of  the  constitution  for  the  sake  of  a  bribe,  of  which  we  are 
cheated  at  last?  We  may  retire  to  our  prayers,  for  the  game 
IS  up. 

BRUTUS. 

*  See  Junius,  Letter  89,  vol.  i.  p.  299,  in  which  the  fiulure  of  Lord  North 
to  effect  this  object  it  ceninred  by  the  author  and  explained  in  a  noti 
appended  to  it 


254  MISCELLANEOUS  LETTEBS  A8CBTBED  TO  JUNIUS. 


LETTER  LI. 

TO  THE    PRINTER  OF  THE   PUBLIC   ADVEBIISEB. 

Sir,  November  14,  1768. 

When  I  foretold  the  approach  of  a  foreign  war,  the  certainty 
of  a  rupture  with  the  colonies,  and  the  decline  of  public  credit* 
my  opinion  was  chiefly  founded  on  the  character,  circum- 
stances, and  abilities  of  the  present  administration.  Fortune 
has  but  little  share  in  the  events  most  interesting  to  mankind. 
Individuals  perish  by  their  own  imprudence,  and  the  ruin  of 
an  empire  is  no  more  than  the  misconduct  of  a  minister  or  a 
king.  Without  the  credit  of  personal  reputation,  divided  as 
a  ministry,  and  unsupported  by  talents  or  experience,  his 
Majesty's  servants  had  left  the  field  of  national  calamity  wide 
open  to  prediction.  It  seems  they  were  determined  to  ac- 
complish more  than  even  their  enemies  had  foretold.  Fox 
my  own  part,  I  am  not  personally  their  enemy,  and  I  could 
have  wished  that  their  conduct  had  not  made  the  name  of 
friend  to  the  ministry  irreconcilable  with  that  of  friend  to 
Great  Britain. 

The  most  contemptible  character  in  private  life,  and  the 
most  ruinous  to  private  fortunes,  is  that  which  possesses 
neither  judgment  nor  inclination  to  do  right,  nor  resolution 
enough  to  be  consistent  in  doing  wrong,  Such  a  man  loses 
all  the  credit  of  firmness  and  uniformity,  and  suffers  the  whole 
reproach  of  weak  or  malicious  intentions.  In  politics,  there 
is  no  other  ministerial  character  so  pernicious  to  the  honour 
of  a  prince,  or  so  fatal  to  the  welfare  of  a  nation.  It  is  of  the 
highest  importance  to  inquire  whether  the  present  ministry 
deserve  it. 

The  name  of  Lord  Chatham's  administration  was  soon  lost 
in  that  of  the  Duke  of  Grafton.  His  Grace  took  the  lead, 
and  made  himself  answerable  for  the  measures  of  a  council 
at  which  he  was  supposed  to  preside.  He  had  gone  as  far  as 
any  man  in  support  of  Mr.  Pitt's  doctrine,  that  parliament 
had  no  right  to  lay  a  tax  upon  America,  for  the  sole  purpose  of 
raising  a  revenue.  It  was  a  doctrine  on  which  Lord  Chatham 
and  the  Chancellor*  formed  their  administration,  and  hit 

*  Lord  Gamdeo. 


ATTICUS  TO  THE  PURTJG  ADTBBTISEB.  d55 

Grace  bad  concurred  in  it  with  all  his  dnceiity.  Yet  the  first 
act  of  his  own  administration  was  to  impose  that  tax  upon 
America  which  has  since  thrown  the  whole  continent  into  a 
flame.  A  wise  man  would  have  let  the  question  drop ;  a  good 
man  would  have  felt  and  adhered  to  the  principles  he  pro- 
fessed. While  the  gentle  Conway  breathed  into  his  ear,  he 
was  all  lenity  and  moderation.  The  colonies  were  dutiful 
children,  and  Great  Britain  a  severe  parent.  A  combination 
to  ruin  this  country  was  no  more  than  an  amicable  agreement, 
and  rebellion  was  a  natural  right  confirmed  by  the  revolution. 
But  now  it  seems  his  Grace's  opinions  are  altered  with  his 
connections.  The  measures  of  the  colonies  are  subversive  oj 
the  constitution ;  they  manifest  a  disposition  to  throw  off  their 
dependence,  and  vigorous  measures  must  be  enforced  at  the 
point  of  the  sword.  In  vain  may  we  look  for  the  temper  and 
firmness  of  a  great  minister:  we  shall  find  nothing  but  the 
passion  or  weakness  of  a  boy,  the  enervated  languor  of  a 
consumption,  or  the  false  strength  of  a  delirium. 

The  same  inconsistency  will  be  found  to  prevail  through 
every  measure  and  operation  of  government.  Perhaps  there 
may  be  discovered  something  more  than  supineness  in  the 
first  neglect  of  Corsica,  and  something  worse  than  incon- 
Bistency  in  the  contradiction  given  to  Lord  Rochford's  spirited 
declaration  to  the  court  of  France'*'.  His  Grace  has  lately 
adopted  the  opposite  extreme,  and  scruples  not  to  give  an 
alarming  shock  to  public  credit  by  hints  little  short  of  a  de- 
claration of  war.  What  is  this  but  the  undetermined  timidity 
of  a  coward,  who  trembles  on  the  brink  Until  he  plunges  head- 
long into  the  stream  ? 

In  one  gazette  we  see  Sir  Jefiery  Amherst  dismissed,  in 
the  very  next  we  see  him  restored,  and  both  without  reason 
or  decency.  The  peerage,  which  had  been  absolutely  refused, 
is  granted,  and  as  in  the  first  instance  the  royal  faith  was  vio- 
lated, in  the  second  the  royal  dignity  is  betrayed.  But  this* 
perhaps  is  a  compliment  to  the  Duke*s  new  friendship  with 
the  Earl  of  Hillsborough. 

Without  approving  of  Mr.  Wilkes's  conduct,  I  lament  his 
fate.    The  Duke  of  Grafton,  who  contributed  to  his  support 

*  Junius,  Letter  No.  12,  vol.  i.  p.  160.    Lord  Roehford  acted  oq  tht 
Smttaiictions  of  the  Earl  of  Shelbame,  secretary  of  state,  whose  conduct  waa 
b J  lus  colleagnsty  and  the  Sari  resinad. — Ed. 


256         MISCELLANEOUS   LETTERS  ASCRIBED   ^o  jnNlUa 

abrotid,  has  given  the  mandate  for  his  expulsion.  But  I  tnigS 
there  is  yet  a  spirit  which  will  not  obej  such  mandates.  Thia 
honourable  enterprise  will  probably  be  defeated,  and  leave 
the  author  of  it  nothing  but  a  distinguished  excess  of  infamy, 
the  last  consolation  of  a  profligate  mind. 

Is  it  possible,  Sir,  that  such  a  ministry  can  long  remain 
nnited,  or  support  themselves  if  they  were  united?  The 
Duke  of  Grafton,  it  is  true,  has  no  scruple  nor  delicacy  in  the 
choice  of  his  measures.  They  are  the  measures  of  the  day, 
and  vary  as  often  as  the  weather.  But  his  companions  had 
each  their  separate  plan,  to  which,  for  the  credit  of  govern- 
ment, and  the  benefit  of  this  country,  they  have  severally  ad- 
hered. The  intrepid  thoughtless  spirit  of  the  Commander; 
in- Chief  looks  no  further  than  to  the  disposal  of  commissions. 
He  is  the  friend  and  patron  of  the  military.  With  this  cha- 
racter he  suffers  the  army  to  be  robbed  of  a  regiment,  by  way 
of  pension  to  tbe  noble  disinterested  house  of  Percy,  and  Sir 
Jeffery  Amherst  to  be  sacrificed  without  pretending  to  the 
credit  of  restoring  him.  His  Lordship's  conduct  perplexes 
ihe.  I  am  at  a  loss  which  to  admire  most,  the  penetrating 
sagacity  with  which  he  understands  the  rights  of  the  army,  or 
the  firmness  with  which  he  defends  them. 

When  an  ungracious  act  was  to  be  done,  the  Earl  of  Hills- 
borough was  chosen  for  the  instrument  of  it.  He  deserved, 
since  he  submitted  to  bear,  the  whole  reproach  of  Sir  Jeffery 
Amherst's  dismission.  The  gallant  knight  obtains  his  price, 
and  the  noble  Earl,  with  whatever  appetite,  must  meet  him 
with  a  smile  of  congratulation,  and,. i^ear  Sir  Jeffery ^  I  most 
eordiMy  wish  you  joy !  After  all,  it  mast  be  confessed  there 
are  some  mortifications  which  might  touch  even  the  callous 
spirit  of  a  courtier. 

The  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer  has  many  deficiencies  to 
make  good  besides  those  of  land  and  malt ;  and  to  say  the 
truth,  he  has  a  gallant  way  of  doing  it  He  gallops  bravely 
through  thick  and  thin«  as  the  court  directs,  and  I  dare  say 
would  defend  even  an  honest  cause  with  as  much  zeal  and 
eloquence  as  if  he  were  ordered  to  show  his  parts  upon  ntUhm 
tempus*,  or  a  Cumberland  election. 

*  See  Janina,  Letter  No  57,  voL  i.,  and  nole  to  MiMeUaneow  LftlK 
N(x  14,  amis,  p.  159. 


JUNIUS  TO  THE   PUBLIC  ADVEBTISER  t251 

It  would  be  unjust  to  the  Duke  of  Bedford's  friends  to 
Attribute  their  conduct  to  any  but  the  motives  which  they 
themselves  profess.  Mr.  Rigby  is  so  modest  a  man  that  the 
imputation  of  public  virtue  or  private  good  faith  would  offend 
his  delicacy,  if  he  did  not  feel,  as  he  certainly  does,  the 
genuine  emotions  of  patriotism  and  friendship  warm  in  his 
breast.  They  argued  not  ill  for  ambition,  while  they  asked 
for  nothing  but  profit;  and  when  the  Duke  of  Grafton  has 
exhausted  the  treasury  he  will  find  that  every  other  power 
departs  with  the  power  of  giving. 

In  this  and  my  former  letters  I  have  presented  to  you,  with 
plainness  and  sincerity,  the  melancholy  condition  to  which  we 
are  reduced.  The  characters  of  a  weak  and  worthless  minis- 
try would  hardly  deserve  the  attention  of  history,  but  that 
they  are  fatally  united,  and  must  be  recorded,  with  liie  misfor- 
tunes of  their  country. 

If  there  be  yet  a  spark  of  virtue  left  among  us,  this  great 
nation  shall  not  be  sacrificed  to  the  fluctuating  interests  or 
wayward  passions  of  a  minister,  nor  even  to  the  caprices  of  a 
monarch.  If  there  be  no  virtue  left,  it  is  no  matter  who  are 
ministers,  nor  how  soon  they  accomplish  our  destruction. 

ATTICUS*. 


LETTER  Lll. 

TO  THE   PRINTER  OF  THE   PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 

Sib,  November  21,  1768. 

It  will  soon  be  decided  by  the  highest  authority,  whether  the 
justice  of  our  laws  and  the  liberty  of  our  constitution  have 
been  essentially  violated  in  the  person  of  Mr.  Wilkes  t.  As 
a  public  man,  his  fate  will  be  determined,  nor  is  it  safe  or 
necessary  at  present  to  enter  into  the  merits  of  his  cause. 
We  are  interested  in  this  question  no  further  than  as  he  is 

*  Whether  or  not  Atticus  was  Junius,  the  reader  cannot  fiaiil  to  perceive 
that  the  latter  availed  himself  largely  of  the  materials  furnished  by  Atticui 
and  others,  his  precursors,  and  wrought  them  up  in  superior  style  and  fiuhion 
in  the  columns  of  the  Pvblic  AdvertUer. — Ed. 

•f  Upon  the  issue  of  the  i^eneial  warrant. 

iroi;^   XI-  s 


d58         1CISCELLAKKOU8  LETTSBS  ASGBIBED   TO  JUNIUS. 

a  part  of  a  well-regulated  society.  If  a  member  of  it  be  in- 
jured, the  laws  and  constitution  will  defend  him.  But  where 
is  the  law  to  enforce  the  engagements  of  private  faith,  or  to 
punish  the  breach  of  them  ?  Where  shall  he  apply  for  re- 
dress  with  whom  all  ties  of  honour,  professions  of  friendship 
uid  obligations  of  party  have  been  violated  or  betrayed  ?  A 
nan  so  injured  has  no  redress  or  consolation,  but  what  he 
£nds  in  the  resentment  and  generous  sympathy  of  mankind. 

The  violation  of  party  faith  is  of  itself  too  common  to 
excite  surprise  or  indignation.  Political  friendships  are  so 
well  understood  that  we  can  hardly  pity  the  simplicity  they 
deceive ;  and  if  Mr.  Wilkes  had  only  been  deserted,  he  would 
but  have  given  us  one  example  more  of  the  folly  of  relying 
on  such  engagements.  But  his,  I  conceive,  is  a  singular 
situation.  There  is  scarce  an  instance  of  party  merit  so  great 
as  his,  or  so  ill  rewarded.  Other  men  have  been  abandoned 
by  their  friends :  Mr.  Wilkes  alone  is  oppressed  by  them. 
One  would  think  that  the  First  Lord  of  the  Treasury*  and 
the  Chancellor t  might  have  been  contented  with  forgetting 
the  man  to  whom  they  principally  owed  their  elevation ;  but 
hearts  like  theirs  are  not  so  easily  satisfied.  They  left  him 
unsupported  when  they  ceased  to  want  his  assistance,  and,  to 
cover  the  reproach  of  passive  ingratitude,  they  pursue  him  to 
destruction.  The  bounds  of  human  science  are  still  unknown, 
but  this  assuredly  is  the  last  limit  of  human  depravity. 
Notorious  facts  speak  for  themselves,  and,  in  this  case,  an 
honest  man  will  want  no  spur  to  rouse  his  indignation.  Men 
of  a  different  character  would  do  well  to  consider  what  their 
security  is  with  a  minister  who  breaks  without  scruple  through 
all  engagements  of  party,  and  is  weak  enough  to  set  all  pubUo 
shame  at  defiance.  There  is  a  firmness  of  character  which 
will  support  a  minister  even  against  his  vices ;  but  where  is 
the  dependence  of  his  friends,  when  they  have  no  hold  either 
on  his  heart  or  his  understanding  ?  Detested  by  the  better 
part  of  mankind,  he  will  soon  be  suspected  by  the  worst,  for 
no  man  relies  securely  on  another  whom  he  thinks  less  honest 
and  less  wise  than  himself. 

In  the  present  instance  the  Duke  of  Grafton  may  possiblj 

*  The  Dake  of  Grafton.  f  Lord  OfimdMu 


TO   THE   KIGHT   HON.    GEORGE   GliENVILLE.  Sf59 

find  that  he  has  played  a  foolish  game.     He  rose  by  Mr, 

Wilkes's  poDularity,  and  it  is  not  improbable  that  he  may 

fall  by  it.     * 

JUNIUS  •. 


LETTER  LIII. 

For  the  Public  Advertiser. 

December  15, 1768. 
TO  THE   RIGHT  HON.   GEORGE   GRENVrLLB 

Sib, 
If  there  be  anything  improper  in  this  address,  the  singularity 
of  your  present  situation  will,  I  hope,  excuse  it.  Your  con- 
duct attracts  the  attention,  because  it  is  highly  interesting  to 
the  welfare,  of  the  public,  and  a  private  man,  who  only  ex- 
presses what  thousands  think,  cannot  be  well  accused  of 
flattery  or  detraction.  If  we  may  judge  by  what  passes  every 
day  in  a  great  assembly,  you  already  possess  all  the  consti- 
tuent parts  of  a  minister,  except  the  honour  of  distributing, 
or  the  emolument  of  receiving,  the  public  money.  These,  in 
the  contemplation  of  the  present  ministry,  are  the  most 
essential  ornaments  of  office.  They  are  the  decus  et  tutamen 
of  a  respectable  administration,  and  the  last  that  a  prudent 
administration  will  relinquish.  As  for  the  authoiity,  the 
credit,  or  the  business  of  their  offices,  they  are  ready  to  resign 
them  to  you  without  reluctance.  With  regard  to  their  ap- 
pearance and  behaviour  within. doors,  these  docile  creatures 
find  a  relief  in  your  understanding  from  the  burthen  of 
thinking,  and  in  your  direction  from  the  labour  of  acting. 
This,  however,  is  no  more  than  the  natural  precedence  of 

*  The  date  of  this  short  and  well-penned  epistle,  the  first  bearing  the 
signature  of  Junius,  reminds  us  that  the  writer  is  on  the  eve  of  appearing 
in  great  figure.  It  is  a  genuine  sample ;  has  all  the  neatness  and  signifi- 
cance of  expression,  the  ni<i!e  observance  and  acute  knowledge  of  human 
nature,  that  distingtiish  the  authenticated  letters.  Why  Junius  did  no: 
include  it  in  his  collective  edition,  was  probably  the  thought  that  his  woric 
would  more  fitly  begin  with  the  new  year,  ushered  in  by  an  elaborate  and 
cnmprehensiye  exposition  of  the  state  of  the  cottntry  and  of  the  characters 
of  the  chief  members  of  the  ministry.  See  his  Letter,  Jan.  21,  1769,  voL 
i.  p.  lOS.— Ki*. 

6ft 


260  MISCELLANEOUS    LETTERS   ASCRIBED   TO   JUNIUS. 

supenor  abilities  and  kDowledge.  Folly  cannot  long  take  the 
pas  of  wisdom,  and  ignorance,  sooner  or  later,  must  submit  to 
experience.  Yet,  considering  what  sort  of  heads  you  have  to 
deal  with,  the  task  of  giving  them  instruction  must  be  a  heavy 
one.  The  triumph  is  hardly  equal  to  the  labour  which 
attends  it.  To  convey  instruction  into  heads  which  perceive 
nothing,  is  as  hard  a  task  as  to  instil  sentiments  into  hearts 
ihat  feel  nothing.  In  both  these  articles,  I  think,  his  Majesty's 
present  servants  are  invulnerable.  They  are  of  so  strange  a 
composition  that  knowledge  will  neither  penetrate  the  sub 
stance,  nor  shame  stick  upon  the  surface.  They  have  one 
short  remedy  for  every  inconvenience,  a  remedy  which  tyrants 
make  use  of,  and  fools  profess,  without  scruple  or  manage- 
ment. Force  is  their  grand  arcanum  imperii.  If  this  be  die 
executive  power  of  the  crown,  they  possess  and  exert  it  to  a 
miracle.  Red  and  brown  makes  all  the  difiTerence.  To 
Southwark  the  guards  are  detached  in  their  uniforms ;  to 
Brentford  they  march  like  gentlemen,  with  orders  to  change 
their  colours  in  the  blood  of  this  country.  This,  Sir,  is  the 
last  irresistible  arguments  of  kings ;  the  only  one  which  your 
abilities  cannot  answer,  nor  your  integrity  oppose  with  effect. 
In  vain  shall  you  demand  an  account  of  the  most  flagrant 
T^aste  of  public  money.  The  ministry  are  sure  of  being  pro- 
tected by  the  rufl&ans  who  received  it.  The  murder  of  his 
Majesty's  English  subjects  calls  aloud,  but  calls  in  vain,  for 
justice.  To  complain  is  dangerous,  to  prosecute  might  be 
fatal.  We  are  arrived  at  that  dreadful  crisis  at  which  open 
murders  may  well  be  succei^ded  by  secret  assassination.  May 
heaven  avert  the  omen  I 

Your  weight  and  authori  ty  in  parliament  are  acknowledged 
by  the  submission  of  your  opponents.  Your  credit  with  the 
public  is  equally  extensivo  and  secure,  because  it  is  founded 
on  a  system  of  conduct  wisely  adopted  and  firmly  maintained 
You  have  invariably  adhered  to  one  cause,  one  I&nguage,  and 
when  your  friends  deserted  that  cause  they  deserted  you 
They  who  dispute  the  rectitude  of  your  opinions  admit  that 
your  conduct  has  been  uniform,  manly,  and  consistent.  This 
letter,  I  doubt  not,  will  be  attributed  to  some  party  friend, 
by  men  who  expect  no  applause  but  from  their  dependants. 
But  you,  Sir,  have  the  testimony  of  your  enemies  in  youf 
favour.     After  years  of  opposition,  we  see  them  revert  ti 


TO   THE   RIGHT  HOK     OEOBGE   OREKVIIXK.  2G1 

■ 

those  very  measures,  with  violence,  with  hazard,  and  disgrace, 
which,  in  the  first  instance,  might  have  heen  conducted  with 
iease,  with  dignity,  and  moderation. 

While  parliament  preserves  its  constitutional  authority, 
you  will  preserve  yours.  As  long  as  there  is  a  real  represen- 
tation of  the  people,  you  will  be  heard  in  that  great  assembly 
with  attention,  deference,  and  respect;  and  if,  fatally  for 
England,  the  designs  of  the  present  ministry  should  at  last 
succeed,  you  will  have  tbe  consolation  to  reflect  that  your 
voice  was  heard  until  the  voice  of  truth  and  reason  was 
drowned  in  the  din  of  arms,  and  that  your  influence  in  par- 
liament was  irresistible  until  every  question  was  decided  by 
the  sword*. 

*  The  warm  attachment  of  Junius  to  every  part  of  the  conduct  of  this  dis- 
tinguished statesman  may  perhaps  be  conceiyed  to  import  something  more 
than  a  mere  political  concurrence  of  sentiment,  and  to  indicate  an  ardent 
personal  friendship.  The  editor  has  found  it  necessary  to  glance  at  such  an 
idea  on  several  former  occasions.  Yet  for  the  honour  of  Junius  it  ought  to 
be  observed,  that  there  were  few  political  characters  of  the  day  who  were 
more  entitled  to  his  panegyric ;  upon  which  subject  the  reader  will  not  be 
displeased  at  being  presented  with  the  following  brief  sketch  of  Mr.  Gren- 
ville's  character  from  the  pen  of  a  gentleman  to  whom  these  notes  have  beer 
already  indebted,  and  who  had  repeated  opportunities  of  forming  a  correct 
estimate  of  his  worth.  It  is  extracted  from  the  second  volume  of  Mr.  Knox's 
Extra  Official  State  Papers,  from  which  a  letter  written  by  Mr.  Grenville,  on 
the  subject  of  American  politics,  has  been  selected  in  note  to  Miscellaneous 
Letter,  No.  81,  p.  200.  The  anecdote  respecting  Florida  and  Louisiana  is 
infinitely  creditable  to  his  "shrewd  inflexible  judgment*'  as  a  statesman ;  and 
his  conduct  as  a  minister  is,  in  many  respects,  not  unworthj:  the  imitition  of 
those  who  hold  the  same  dignified  situations  in  the  present  d}iy. 

"Mr.  Grenville,  under  a  manner  rather  austere  and  forbidding,  covered  a 
heart  as  feeling  and  tender  as  any  man  ever  possessed.  He  liked  office,  as 
well  for  its  emoluments  as  its  power ;  but  in  his  attention  to  himself  he  never 
failed  to  pay  regard  to  the  sttuatinns  and  circumstances  of  his  friends,  though 
to  neither  would  he  warp  the  public  interest  or  service  in  the  smallest  degree. 
Rigid  in  his  opinions  of  public  justice  and  integrity,  and  firm  to  inflexibility 
in  the  construction  of  his  mind,  he  reprobated  every  suggestion  of  the  political 
expediency  of  overlooking  frauds  or  evasions  in  the  payment  or  collection  of 
the  revenue,  or  of  waste  and  extravagance  in  its  expenditure.  But  although 
he  would  not  bend  in  any  measure  out  of  the  strict  line  of  rectitude  to  gain 
popularity,  he  was  fax  from  being  indifferent  to  the  good  or  ill  opinion  of  the 
public ;  and  that  tediousness  and  repetition  which  his  speeches  in  parliament 
and  his  transactions  with  men  of  business  were  charged  with,  were  occasionei 
by  the  eamestnesa  of  bis  desire  to  satisfy  and  convince  those  he  addressed  of 
the  purity  of  his  motives  and  the  propriety  of  his  conduct ;  and  while  there 
remained  a  single  reason  in  his  own  mind  that  he  thought  would  tetre  t}tcM 


302  maCELLAIKCOITS   I.ETTEBS   A9CBIBED  TO  JTMltfS 


LETTER  LIV. 

TO  THB  FBIKTEB  OF  THE   PUBLIC  ADTEBT18EB. 

Mb.  Woodfall,  April  12, 1769. 

The  moDodj  on  the  supposed  death  of  Junius  is  not  the  less 
poetical  for  heing  founded  on  a  fiction.     In  some  parts  of  it 

purpo«ef,  lie  conid  not  be  content  to  rest  npon  those  be  bad  already  adduced, 
bovreTer  convinced  and  satisfied  bis  bearers  appeared  to  be  witb  tbem. 

*'  Inberiting  bat  a  small  patrimonial  fortune,  be  bad  early  accustomed  bim- 
self  to  a  strict  appropriation  of  his  income  and  an  exact  economy  in  its 
expenditure,  as  the  only  sore  ground  on  which  to  build  a  reputation  for 
public  and  private  integrity  and  to  support  a  dignified  independency ;  and  it 
nras  the  unvaried  practice  of  bis  life,  in  all  situations,  as  he  has  often  told  me, 
to  live  upon  his  own  private  fortune,  and  save  the  emoluments  of  whatever 
office  he  possessed ;  on  which  account,  he  added, '  The  being  in  or  out  makes 
no  difference  in  my  establishment  or  manner  of  life.  Everything  goes  on  at 
home  in  the  same  way.  The  only  difference  is,  that  my  children's  fortunes 
would  be  increased  by  my  being  in  beyond  what  they  would  be  if  I  remained 
out ;  and  that  is  being  as  little  dependent  upon  office  as  any  man  who  was 
not  bom  to  a  great  estate  can  possibly  be;'  and  he  manifested  that  inde- 
pendence at  a  time  and  in  a  manner  but  little  known ;  and  as  the  relation 
can  now  do  no  harm,  I  shall  repeat  the  account  he  gave  me  of  it.  He  had 
accepted  the  seals  of  one  of  the  secretaries  of  state  in  Lord  Bute's  administra- 
tion, and  by  so  doing  drew  upon  himself  the  resentment  and  abuse  of  the 
then  popular  party,  and  of  some  of  his  own  nearest  relations ;  bis  return, 
therefore,  to  them  was  rendered  impracticable  upon  any  occasion,  and  be  had 
every  motive  to  induce  him  to  remain  with  his  present  connection ;  notwith- 
stiinding  which,  he  very  soon  haxarded  his  continuance  in  office  in  support  of 
his  opinion  of  what  ought  to  be  done  for  the  advantage  of  the  public,  on  the 
following  occasion : — 

"  While  the  peace  was  negotiating,  the  expedition  against  the  Havannah 
was  carrying  on ;  and  as  the  chance  of  its  success  or  fiiilure  was  not  very 
unequal,  the  negotiators  agreed  to  leave  it  out  in  their  uti  possidetis,  con- 
sidering the  event  as  perfectly  neutral ;  so  that  if,  after  the  preliminaries 
were  signed,  it  was  found  to  be  taken,  it  was  to  be  restored  without  compen- 
saticm.  Before  the  prelimiuHries  were  signed,  however,  the  account  of  its 
capture  was  received,  and  Mr.  Grenville  immediately  proposed  that  it  should 
now  be  included  in  the  tUi  possidetis,  and  compensation  for  it  insi&ted  upon , 
for  as  the  event  was  decided  before  the  preliminaries  were  signed,  either 
party  was  at  liberty  to  avail  themselves  of  it.  Lord  Bute  thought  the  treaty 
was  too  far  advanced  to  make  any  advantage  of  the  event  being  in  our  favour, 
and  he  fetired  that  our  making  any  fresh  demand  would  not  only  protract  but 
break  off  the  negotiation,  and  prevent  the  peace  takint;  place  immediately, 
which  he  thought  so  necessary  for  the  nation.  Mr.  Grenville  was  clear  in 
his  opinion  of  our  right  to  make  the  demand,  and  firm  in  insisting  that  it 
thould  be  made,  and  proposed  two  alteruatives  for  consideration :  the  011% 


JTJNing  TO   MB.   WOODFALL.  26<1 

there  is  a  promise  of  genius  which  deserves  to  be  encouraged*. 
My  letter  of  Monday  will,  I  hope,  convince  the  author  that  I 

that  if  we  judged  it  best  to  get  the  entire  poueuion  of  the  continent  of  North 
America,  France  having  already  agreed  to  cede  all  Canada,  that  we  should 
insist  upon  Florida  and  Louisiana ;  the  other,  that  if  we  thought  it  necessary 
to  increase  our  possessions  in  the  West  Indies  beyond  the  three  neutral 
islands  which  France  had  also  agreed  to  give  us,  we  should  ask  Porto  Rico 
nnd  the  property  of  what  we  held  upon  the  Spanish  main;  and  he  left  the 
Earl  with  declaring  that  he  would  resign  the  seals  if  one  of  those  alternatives 
"was  not  adopted  and  insisted  upon.  After  consulting  with  Mr.  Fox  and 
LiNrd  Egremont,  Lord  Bute  agreed  to  make  the  demand  of  Florida  and 
Louisiana,  and  instructions  to  that  purpose  were  immediately  despatched  to 
the  Duke  of  Bedford,  who  made  so  able  and  strenuous  an  application  in  con- 
sequence of  them,  that  the  Duke  de  Choiseul  not  only  consented  to  cede 
Louisiana,  but  obliged  the  Spanish  minister  to  cede  Florida  also,  without 
■ending  to  his  court  for  fresh  orders ;  and  the  preliminaries  were  not  delayed 
ninre  than  a  fortnight  by  the  demand  and  acquisition  of  that  immense 
territory." 

Mr.  Grenville,  shortly  previous  to  his  death,  introduced  the  Act  for  deter- 
mining controverted  elections,  from  a  thorough  conviction,  as  he  declared  to 
Mr.  Knox,  "  that  the  ruin  of  public  liberty  must  ensue  unless  some  check 
was  given  to  the  abominable  prostitution  of  the  House  of  Commons  in  elec- 
tions,  by  voting  in  fitvour  of  whoever  has  the  support  of  the  minister.'*  The 
good  effects  of  this  excellent  Act  is  on  all  sides  the  theme  of  praise  so  often 
as  a  controversy  occasions  the  necessity  for  an  appeal  to  its  decision,  the 
impartiality  of  which  has  hitherto  never  been  disputed  *. 

*  These  verses  were  written  by  Sir  John  Macpherson,  formerly  gorer- 
nor-general  of  India.  He  was  the  author  of  several  letters  in  answer  to 
Junius,  under  the  signature  of  PoeiiiMstot,  The  lines  hero  referred  to  were  as 
follow ; — 

A  MONODY ; 

OE  THB  TEARS  OF  SEDITION  ON  THE  DEATH  OF  JUNIUS. 

Quis  tibi  Silwre  furor  t 

And  are  those  periods.fiird  with  tuneful  care, 

Those  thoughts  which  gleam 'd  with  Cicerorian  ore, 

Are  they,  my  Junius,  pass'd  like  vulgar  air ; 
Droop'd  is  thy  plume,  to  rise  on  fame  no  more  1 

*  The  carrying  of  Mr.  Grenville's  Election  Bill,  like  the  (Carrying  of  the 
Reform  Bill  in  1,882,  is  an  example  that  a  corrupt  legislature  will  sometimes 
reform  itself;  but  on  both  occasions  it  may  be  mainly  ascribed  to  the  pres^ 
sure  from  without.  *'  So  strong,"  says  the  Annual  RegisUVf  **  was  the  dispo* 
sition  of  the  people  in  favour  of  the  Bill  (Grenville's),  that  very  few  who  had 
▼oted  against  it  could  venture  to  show  themselves  at  the  general  eleetioni.* 
The  Bj'l  was  passed  in  the  House  of  Commons  by  250  against  122. — SDw 


264         MISCELIANEOUS   LETTERS   A8CBIBED   IC    JUNIUS 

ain  neither  a  partisan  of  Mr.  Wilkes,  nor  yet  bought  ofl  b| 

Thy  plume  1 — ^it  was  the  harp  of  song  in  proae : 
Oft  have  its  numbers  sooth'd  the  felon's  ear, 

Oft  to  its  tune  my  Wilkite  heroes  rose 
With  couch'd  tobacco  pipes  in  act  to  spear. 

Where  now  shall  stormy  Clodius  and  his  crew, 

My  dear  assembly  to  the  midnight  hour, 
Ah  1  where  acquire  a  trumpeter ! — since  yoa 

No  more  shall  rouse  them  with  thy  classic  power. 

Accurs'd  Silurus !  blasted  be  thy  wing ! 

That  grey  Scotch  vring  which  led  the  unerring  dart! 
In  virtue's  cause  could  all  that 's  satire  sting 

A  bosom  with  corruption's  poison  fraught) 

Impossible ! — then  hear  me,  fiends  of  H — II, 

This  dark  event,  this  mystery  unfold : 
Poison'd  was  Junius  ?     No ;  "  Alas,  he  fell 

Midst  arrows  dipp'd  in  ministerial  gold." 

Then  hear  me,  rioters  of  my  command ; 

Condemn  the  villain  to  a  traitor's  doom ; 
Let  none  but  fiiithful  knaves  adorn  my  band , 

Go,  sink  this  character  into  his  tomb. 

Here  sunk  an  essayist  of  dubious  name. 

Whose  tinseU'd  page  on  airy  cadence  run, 
Friendless,  with  party — ^noted,  without  fame, 

Virtue  and  vice  disclaim'd  him  as  a  son. 

P0ETIKASTO& 

Clodius  and  Silurus,  mentioned  in  the  above  lines,  were  at  this  time 
frequent  writers  in  the  Public  Advertiser;  the  former  against  administration, 
the  latter  in  favour  of  it.  Silurus,  assuming  a  personal  knowledge  of  the 
writer  of  the  Letters  of  Junius,  thus  describes  him : — 

"  I  know  Junius,  and  I  am  not  surprised  that  he  calls  aloud  for  blood. 
Bred  among  the  drees  of  mankind,  he  imbibed  their  vices,  and  acquired  that 
hardness  of  heart  which  is  usually  produced  by  crimes.  Possessed  of  some 
ambition,  versed  in  the  low  arts  of  adulation,  he  wrought  himself  into  the 
confidence  of  the  vain  by  unmanly  flattery,  and  rose  from  obscurity  by  means 
which  dishonoured  his  patrons.  Smooth  m  his  language,  he  gained  the  ear 
without  persuading  the  heart;  and  by  che  help  of  a  good  memory,  some 
anecdotes,  and  trite  observations,  acquired  the  reputation  of  a  genius  among 
some  slight  characters  in  the  literary  world.  Dark,  cunning,  deceitfully  sel^ 
denied,  he  covered  himself  with  such  an  appearance  of  openness  and  can- 
iour  that  even  some  judges  of  human  nature  thought  him  honest,  many 
believed  him  honourable,  few  suspected  the  soundness  of  his  head,  none  the 
goodness  of  his  heart. 

''Such  was  Junius  before  public  business  called  forth  the  latent  and 
deformed  features  of  his  mind ;  the  real  man  stood  then  confessed :  hii 
•pedousness  was  found  to  be  a  mask  for  hypocrisy,  his  candour  a  tcil  £» 


TO  THE   MARQUIS  OF   GKANBT  J365 

the  ministry*.  It  is  true  I  have  refused  offers  which  a  more 
prudent  or  a  more  interested  man  \yould  have  acceptea 
Whether  it  be  simplicity  or  virtue  in  me,  I  can  only  affirm 
that  I  am  in  earnest  \;  because  I  am  convinced,  as  far  as  my 
understanding  is  capable  of  judging,  that  the  present  ministry 
are  driving  this  country  to  destruction ;  and  you,  I  think,  Sir, 
may  be  satisfied  that  my  rank  and  fortune  jdaee  me  above  a 

COMMON  BBIBE^. 

JUNIUS. 


LEITER  LV. 

TO  THE  MABQUIS  OF  OBANBT. 

Hy  Lokd,  May  6, 1769. 

You  were  once  the  favourite  of  the  public.  As  a  brave  man 
you  were  admired  by  the  army,  as  a  generous  man  you  were 
beloved.  T be  scene  is  altered ;  and  even  your  immediate  de- 
pendants, who  have  profited  most  by  your  good  nature,  cannot 
conceal  from  you  how  much  you  have  lost  both  in  the  affec- 
tions of  your  fellow- soldiers  and  the  esteem  of  your  country. 
Your  character,  once  spotless,  once  irreproachable,  has  been 
drawn  into  a  public  question ;  attacked  with  severity,  defended 

deceit,  his  learning  discovered  to  he  mere  plagiarism,  his  boasted  parts  to 
consist  altogether  in  memory.  The  flimsy  affected,  though  nnaSffecting, 
superficialness  of  his  private  discourse  was  soon  traced  in  the  hoilow  and 
mund  period  of  his  public  declamations.  Detestation  took  the  place  of  esteem 
in  the  minds  of  many,  hatred  took  possession  of  a  few,  and  a  contempt  for 
him  of  all.  Detected,  detested,  despised,  in  his  real  character,  he  now 
assumes  a  JUtitioiu  name;  for  Junius  cannot  deceive  but  where  he  is  un- 
known. 

"  March  27, 1769.  "  Silurus." 

*  The  letter  here  referred  to  is  that  addressed  to  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  on 
BIr.  Weston's  supposed  vindication  of  his  Grace,  for  the  pardon  of  M'Quirk. 
Bee  vol.  i.  p.  148. 

f  Private  Letter,  No.  68. 

i  This  misleading  paragraph  is  very  amusing,  supposing  our  demonstra- 
tioii  of  the  authorship  to  be  correct.  His  first  aim  was  concealment ;  next, 
to  give  weight  and  authority  to  hii  political  strictures;  and  both  objects < 
were  most  likely  to  be  accomplished  by  artfully  representing  himself  as  « 
man  of  rank  and  position,  possibly  one  of  the  great  heads  of  parties — « 
Rockingham,  Grenville,  Temple,  Shelbume,  or  even,  as  Mr.  Macaulay. 
OMially  calls  him,  '*  the  great  Lord  Chatham." — Bd. 


'4166         MISCELLANEOUS   LETTEBS   ASCBIBED   TO  JUNIUB. 

with  imprudence,  and,  like  the  seat  of  war,  ruii  .ed  by  the  con- 
tention. Profligate  as  we  are,  the  virtues  of  the  heart  are 
still  so  much  respected  that  even  the  errors  and  simplicity  of 
a  f3;ood  man  are  sacred  against  censure  or  derision.  To  a  man 
of  your  Lordship's  high  rank  and  fortune,  is  there  anything 
in  the  smiles  of  a  court  that  can  balance  the  loss  of  that 
affection  (for  surely  it  was  something  more  cordial  than  esteem) 
with  which  you  were  universally  received  upon  your  return 
from  Germany?  You  were  than  an  independent  gallant 
soldier.  As  far  as  you  thought  proper  to  mix  in  politics,  you 
were  the  friend  and  patron  of  the  people.  Believe  me,  my 
Lf  rd,  the  highest  rate  of  abilities  could  never  have  given  you 
e  more  honourable  station.  From  the  moment  you  quitted 
/hat  line,  you  have,  perhaps,  been  better  able  to  gratify  some 
interested  favourites,  but  you  have  disgraced  yourself;  and,  to 
a  man  of  your  quality,  disgrace  is  ruin. 

You  are  now  in  the  lowest  rank  of  ministerial  dependants. 
Your  vote  is  as  secure  to  administration  as  if  you  were  a  lord 
of  trade,  or  a  vice-treasurer  of  Ireland ;  and  even  Conway,  at 
your  Lordship's  expense,  has  mended  his  reputation.  I  will 
not  enter  into  a  detail  of  your  past  conduct.  You  have  ene- 
mies enough  already,  and  I  would  not  wish  you  to  despair  of 
recovering  the  public  esteem.  An  opportunity  will  soon  pre- 
sent itself.  The  people  of  England  are  good  natured  enough 
to  make  allowances  for  your  mistakes,  and  to  give  you  credit 
for  correcting  them.  One  short  question  will  determine  your 
character  for  ever.  Does  it  become  the  name  and  dignity  of 
Maimers  to  place  yourself  upon  a  level  with  a  venal  tribe,  who 
vote  as  they  are  directed,  and  to  declare  upon  your  honour,  in 
the  face  of  your  country,  that  Mr.  Luttrell  is,  or  ought  to  be. 
the  sitting  member  for  the  county  of  Middlesex  ?  I  appeal. 
hondfide,  to  your  integrity  as  an  honest  man; — I  even  appeal 
to  vour  understanding. 

YOUR  EEAL  FEIEND*. 

*  This  18  an  undoubted  Junius.  The  anxiety  Junius  felt  for  it«  appear- 
ance will  be  seen  from  his  private  note,  No.  2,  arUty  p.  1,  to  Mr.  Woodfall, 
informing  him  that  **  the  great  question  [the  expulsion  of  Wilkes]  comes  on 
on  Monday,  and  Lord  Oranbj  is  already  staggered.*'  The  debate  took 
place  as  expected,  and  the  result  was  as  stated  in  Dr.  Gbod's  note — Colonel 
Luttrell,  with  296  votes,  being  deckired  duly  elected,  and  Jack  Wilkes,  with 
1148,  rejected.  From  the  C^uUham  Correspondence  (vol.  iii.  p.  856)  it 
•ppeiirs  that,  one  week  prior  to  the  appearance  of  the  above  letter  of  Four 


SIMPLEX  TO  THE  PUBLIC   ADVERTIBEB,  267 


LETTER  LVI. 

TO  THE   PRINTER  OF  THE   PUBLIC   ADVERTISEB 

Sir,  June  6,  1760. 

I  WISH  the  Duke  of  Grafton  had  thought  proper  to  take  the 
opinion  of  our  gracious  Queen *8  solicitor-general  *  hefore  he 
pardoned  M'Quirk.  That  worthy  lawyer  is  never  at  cross 
purposes  with  himself,  and  I  dare  say  would  have  maintained 
the  same  doctrine  in  his  closet  which  he  has  delivered  in  pub- 
lic. He  says  in  his  last  volume,  page  1 S,  '*  that  the  pains  pf 
death  ought  never  to  be  inflicted,  but  when  the  offender  ap- 
pears incorrigible :  which  may  be  collected  either  from  a  repe- 
tition of  minuter  offences,  or  from  the  perpetration  of  some 
one  crime  of  deep  malignity,  which  of  itself  demonstrates  a 
disposition  without  hope  or  probability  of  amendment ;  and  in 
such  cases  it  would  be  cruelty  to  the  public  to  defer  the 
punishment  of  such  a  criminal  till  he  had  an  opportunity  of 
repeating  perhaps  the  worst  of  villanies." 

What  would  this  most  respectable  of  all  possible  lawyers 
have  thought  of  granting  a  pardon  to  a  culprit  who  had  not 
only  been  convicted  of  a  repetition  of  offences,  and  those  not 
minute  but  atrocious,  but  who  had  actually  committed  murder? 
He  certainly  would  have  called  it  something  more  than  cruelty 

JUal  Friend,  Lord  Qranbj  visited  the  Earl  of  Chatham  at  Hayes,  to  confer 
with  him  on  his  conduct,  especiiilly  in  regard  to  the  Middlesex  election. 
Of  this  interview  Earl  Temple  relates,  that  **  Lord  Granby  has  made  his 
report  to  the  Duke  of  Grafton  of  what  passed  with  Lord  Chatham.  His 
Grace  justified  himself  as  well  as  he  could  in  respect  to  the  different  things 
Avhich  he  apprehended  were  found  fiiult  with  at  Hayes — was  ready  to  do 
as  Lord  Chatham  should  direct  when  he  came  forth ;  but  rather  wondered 
that  his  Lordship  should  choose  to  see  the  King  first,  as  it  would  be  better 
for  them  to  talk  together  and  settle  beforehand.**  These  combined  move* 
ments,  Chatham's  interview  with  Granby  and  the  remonstrative  epistle  of 
Junius,  had  one  and  the  same  end  in  view — to  weaken  the  Grafton  ministry, 
now  Chatham  hud  left  it,  by  detaching  from  it  its  greatest  ornament,  the 
lilarquis  of  Granby.  They  succeeded  at  last;  the  Chatham  and  Junini 
pack  worried  the  Marquis  into  a  resignation,  and  perhaps  to  death ;  for  he 
Hved  unhappily,  and  died  suddenly  not  long  after  leaving  the  King's  Mr- 
vice.  He  had  distinguished  himself  in  the  German  war,  possessed  somi* 
talent  and  a  noble  heart. — Ed. 

*•  Sir  William  Blnckstone.     For  the  detail  of  M'Quirk's  crime  and  pardooi 
see  Jnnius's  Letters,  No.  6,  vol.  i.  p.  188. 


S98  MISCELLAVEOtTS   LETfElid   ASvfilBED   TO  JUNIUS. 

to  the  public.     His  knowledge  of  the  laws  would  hav^e  tcltl 
bim  thu  the  purpose  for  which  this  villain  was  employed  by 
the  ministry  was  treason  against  the  constitution  * ;  that  i* 
was  the  highest  aggravation  of  the  crimes  he  committed  ii 
prosecution  of  it;  that  murder,  simply  considered,  is  only  at 
injury  to  the  individual  who  suffers,  or,  in  the  most  enlarged 
sense,  to  society,  in  the  loss  of  one  of  its  members ;  but  that 
when  it  is  connected  with,  and  founded  on,  the  idea  of  destroy- 
ing the  constitution  of  the  state  (which,  as  far  as  Mr.  Mac 
Quirk's  labours  could  be  supposed  to  operate,  was  certainly 
the  case),  it  then  comprehends  every  quality  which  can  make 
an  offence  of  this  sort  criminal  in  the  eye  of  the  law :  the 
injury  to  the  individual ;  a  breach  of  the  public  peace  and 
security  in  a  civil   light ;  and  a  violation   of  that  political 
system  on  which  the  liberty  and  happiness  of  the  community 
depend.      Mr.  Blackstone  would  have  told  the  fiery  Duke, 
that  to  pardon  such  an  offender  would  not  only  be  a  most 
scandalous  evasion  of  law  and  justice,  but  the  grossest  insult 
to  the  common  understanding  of  the  nation. 

His  Grace  must  then  have  applied  to  some  lawyer  of  a  more 
flexible  character.  There  is  a  man,  for  instance,  who  seems 
to  have  hoarded  up  a  treasure  of  reputation,  not  to  last  him 
through  life,  but  to  squander  away  at  one  moment,  with  a 
foolish  indecent  prodigality; — who  is  not  ashamed  to  main- 
tain an  oral  doctrine  directly  opposite  to  that  which  he  had 
written,  nor  to  deceive  the  representative,  after  instructing 
the  collective  body  of  the  nation.  This  man  would  willingly 
have  accommodated  his  authority  to  the  purposes  of  adminis- 
tration ;  and  as  for  himself,  he  could  suffer  no  loss  for  which 
the  vanity  of  an  author  would  not  have  sufficiently  consoled 
him.  The  respect  due  to  his  writings  will  probably  increase 
with  the  contempt  due  to  his  character,  and  his  works  will  be 
quoted  when  he  himself  is  forgotten  or  despised 

SIMPLEX. 

*  In  raference  to  Sir  W.  Blaekstone's  opinion  relating  to  the  IfiddloMii 
tlnction.    See  Junius,  No.  18,  vol  i.  p.  ISfi. 


PARTY   SQCABBLES,   BY   AMICUS  CVRIM.  269 


LETTEE  LVII. 


TO  THE  PBIKTEB  OF  THE  PUBLIO  ADTBBTISER. 

Sn,  June  10, 1769. 

I  AM  an  old  reader  of  political  controveray.  I  rememl)er  tho 
great  Walpolean  battles ;  and  am  not  a  little  diverted  \vith 
the  combats  of  party  at  this  time.  They  are  still  carried  on 
with  ability  and  vigour.  Long  habit  has  taught  me  to  pass  by 
all  the  declamation  with  which  the  champions  parade.  I  look 
upon  it  as  no  better  than  those  flourishes  of  the  back  sword 
with  which  the  great  masters  of  my  time  in  the  amphitheatre 
entertained  the  spectators,  merely  to  show  their  dexterity,  but 
which  made  no  part  of  the  real  engagement.  I  regard  as 
nothing  the  trappings  of  panegyric  with  which  they  decorate 
their  friends.  I  entirely  overlook  the  dirt  with  which  they 
so  very  liberally  bespatter  their  enemies.  Whenever  a  fact 
is  touched  upon,  there  I  fix.  When  a  distinct  charge  is  made 
upon  a  minister,  I  look  for  a  distinct  and  partj^ular  answer, 
that  denies,  or  admittifig,  explains,  or  in  some  favourable 
manner  accounts  for  the  fact  charged.  If  instead  of  this  I 
find  nothing  more  than  a  long  paper,  in  which  the  author  of 
the  charge  is  called  a  thousand  names,  and  the  person  accused 
is  lifted  up  to  the  skies  as  a  miracle  of  ability  and  virtue,  I 
am  obliged,  as  an  equitable  judge,  to  consider  the  cause  not 
as  defended,  but  as  utterly  abandoned ;  and  the  court  must 
enter  an  admission  by  his  own  advocates  of  the  charge  against 
him. 

The  conduct  and  character  of  the  Duke  of  Grafton  have 
been  for  some  time  the  object  of  controversy.  In  what  manner 
have  they  been  attacked  and  defended  ?  Take  as  a  specimen 
the  controversy  of  the  last  week.  Junius,  whom  the  ministe- 
rial writers  appear  very  much  to  dread,  and  affect  very  much 
tc*  despise,  has  made  several  particular  charges  upon  his  Grace. 
In  one  column  I  will  state  the  charges,  in  the  other  the  reader 
will  see  the  answers,  and  he  will  thereby  be  the  better  enabled 
lo  judge  of  the  spirit  in  which  this  dispute  is  carried  ou 


270 


mscELLAsneous  lettebs  abcbibbd  to  juxius. 


Junius^s  charges. 

First  fact. 

That  Lord  Chatham  was 
the  first  object  of  the  Duke 
of  Qrafton^s  political  attach- 
ment; yet  he  deserted  him, 
and  entered  with  Xtord  Rock- 
ingham into  an  administration 
in  which  Lord  Chatham  re- 
fused to  engage. 

Second  fact. 

After  uniting  with  Lord 
Eockingham,  the  Duke  of 
Grafton  deserted  and  betrayed 
him. 


Third  fact. 

That,  after  entering  again 
into  administration  with  Lord 
Chatham,  the  Duke  of  Graf- 
ton forced  him  (Lord  Chatham) 
to  withdraw  his  name  from  it. 


Fourth  fact. 

That  the  Duke  of  Grafton 
is  chargeable  with  great  in- 
consistencies with  himself  in 
the  frequent  variations  in  his 
opinions  and  conduct  with 
regard  to  America,  aooording 


Answer, 

The  wicked  for  the  sake  jf 
mischief  approve  of  your  bo  d 
falsehoods,  and  the  envious 
love  a  strain  of  defamation, 
which  brings  down  to  their 
own  mean  level  the  most 
worthy  and  most  exalted  cha- 
racters in  the  nation. 

Answer, 

To  retaliate  upon  you  the 
abuse  which  you  have  pre- 
sumed to  throw  upon  the 
Duke  of  Grafton  would  be 
raising  you  into  a  consequence 
to  which  the  meanness  of  youi 
birth,  the  depravity  of  youi 
heart,  and  the  unsoundness 
of  your  head,  can  never  have 
any  title. 

Answer 

By  specious  conversation 
you  imposed  upon  the  weak, 
by  open  and  impudent  flattery 
you  gained  the  confidence  ot 
the  vain,  and  you  won  the 
favour  of  the  proud  by  mean 
unmanly  sycophancy. 

Answer 

Void  as  you  are  of  every 
sense  of  shame,  can  you  with- 
out a  blush  (but  a  blush  seldom 
tinges  those  happy  counte- 
nances which  have  been  bathed 
in  the  Liffy),  can  you  recom- 


PARTY   SQUABBLES,   BY  AMICUS  CURIJR.  271 

to  the  various  changes  he  has    mend  to  the  people  ef  Eng- 
made  in  his  connections.  land,  as  ministers,  men  whose 

weakness  or  villany  they  ha  :• 
already  experienced  in  office 

Fifth  fact.  Answer 

The  Duke  of  Grafton  had  The  abilities,  the  integrity 
been  the  friend  of  Mr.  Wilkes,  the  dignity  of  mind,  as  well 
and  is  become  his  persecutor,     as  the  nobilityof  family  which 

distinguish  the  Duke  of  Graf- 
ton, have  rendered  him  supe- 
rior to  your  abuse. 

The  above  charges  are,  with  several  others,  to  be  fouTid  In 
the  last  letter  of  Junius.  The  ministerial  advocate,  Anti- 
Malagrida*t  has  since  addressed  a  letter  to  him,  in  which  the 
above  paragraphs,  in  the  second  column,  are  the  only  answers 
which  1  could  discover.  The  same  charges  had  been  made 
by  Junius  and  others  several  times  before.  Always  the  same 
reply.  Junius  and  many  others  say  (and  I  fancy  they  speak 
the  sense  of  the  nation)  that  the  Duke  of  Grafton  imposes 
upon  his  Sovereign,  betrays  his  connections,  persecutes  the 
man  who  was  his  friend,  idly  irritates  the  colonies,  wickedly 
alienates  their  affections  from  their  mother  country,  invades 
the  liberties  of  the  people,  abuses  the  prerogative  of  the  crown, 
and  has  actually  subverted  the  constitution ;  and  when  Junius 
civilly  asks  the  reason  of  all  this — Sip  (says  he)  you  are  a 
rascal. 

Now,  Mr.  Woodfall,  I  shall  make  but  one  reflection,  and 
that  I  shall  borrow  from  Sir  John  Brute : — '*  This  may  be  a 
very  good  answer  for  aught  1  know  at  cross-purposes,  but  it  is 
a  damned  whimsical  one  to  a  people  in  our  circumstances." 

Yours,  &c., 
AMICUS  OURIJB. 

*  A  writer  in  the  PuUie  AdvertUer  in  fiirour  of  administration,  bnt  whoa 
btterR  do  aot  appear  to  have  merit  enough  to  entitle  them  to  be  reprinted* 


27  Q         MISCELLANEOUS  LETTERS   ASCRIBED   TO  JUNIUB. 


LETTER  LVITI. 

LETTER  OF  JTTNIA. 

Mb.  Woodfall,  September  5,  1769. 

Amidst  the  grisat  number  of  correspondents  who  have  raised 
your  paper  to  a  superiority  over  the  rest,  I  don't  remember  to 
have  observed  lately  any  of  the  female  sex.  To  a  woman  of 
spirit  the  most  intolerable  of  all  grievances  is  a  restraint  ou 
the  liberty  of  the  tongue.  T  can't  bear  to  see  the  men  have 
it  all  to  themselves ;  and  shall  certainly  burst  if  I  am  not 
permitted  to  put  in  a  word.  Much  has  been  said  of  late  about 
grievances  and  apprehensions,  instructions  and  petitions, 
elections  and  expulsions.  Now,  Sir,  I  want  to  enter  the  list 
with  one  of  the  most  celebrated  of  your  political  correspon- 
dents :  here  I  throw  down  my  glove,  and  am  in  hopes  it  will 
be  taken  up  by — Junius.  Some  people  perhaps  may  blame 
me  for  meddling  with  politics,  a  science  fit  only  for  the  men ; 
but  Junius  has  no  right  to  find  fault,  for  Junius  has  been  the 
aggressor,  by  making  such  frequent  incursions  into  scandal, 
the  natural  province  of  the  women. 

However,  I  will  do  your  correspondent  Junius  the  justice 
to  say,  that  I  think  him  a  very  fine  writer,  a  great  master  of 
composition,  and  indeed,  upon  the  whole,  I  have  not  seen  a 
prettier  fellow — upon  paper.  His  former  letters  have  con- 
sisted of  general  declamation  or  pointed  personal  abuse.  In 
both  of  these  he  has  proved  himself  an  adept.  There  is  a 
great  deal  of  oratory  in  his  declamations,  though  he  is  perhaps 
too  fiowery  and  metaphorical,  and  seems  as  fond  of  point  and 
antithesis  as  any  woman  is  of  point  lace  and  French  silk.  As 
to  his  personal  attacks,  they  are  irresistible ;  no  character  can 
stand  before  him ;  he  is  the  very  butcher  of  a  reputation. 
"  Heaven  preserve  tho  characters  of  all  my  tribe  from  Junius ! " 
In  the  art  of  exaggeration  he  has  no  equal ;  molehills  he 
magnifies  into  mountains,  and  views  your  smallest  peccadillo 
through  a  double  microscope.  Should  there  be  the  least  spot 
cr  speck  on  your  reputation,  Junius  can  spread  it  out  (with 
the  help  of  a  few  drops  of  ink)  till  it  covers  you  all  over,  and 
makes  you  as  black  as  a  fiend;  in  short,  Junius  is  chief  japan- 
ner  or  calumniator-general  to  the  opposition :  he  is  employed 
to  besmear  the  nnnistry  with  his  very  best  liquid  blacking,  and 


LETTER  OF  JUNU.  STS 

wben  he  has  written  them  out  of  office,  he  will  no  doubt 
change  his  colours,  take  a  differept  brush,  and  white>>wash 
their  successors.  I  wish  he  may  make  as  distinguished  a 
6gure  in  the  sweet  work  of  panegyric  as  he  has  done  in  the 
painful  task  of  calumny  and  detraction ! 

But  of  all  kinds  of  abuse,  private  scandal  seems  to  be  his 
favourite  morsel ;  Junius  lays  hold  of  a  scandalous  anecdote 
with  as  much  keenness  as  a  spider  seizes  an  unfortunate  fly; 
he  crawls  forth  from  the  dark  hole  where  he  lay  concealed ; 
how  eagerly  he  clutches  it ;  with  what  a  malicious  pleasure  he 
drags  it  along ;  his  eyes  gloat  upon  it  with  cruel  delight ;  he 
winds  it  round  and  round  with'  his  cobweb  rhetoric,  and  sucks 
the  very  heart's  blood  of  family  peace  i 

Various  have  been  the  conjectures  formed  on  the  question 
— **  Who  is  this  Junius?"  I  have  heard  at  least  twenty  per- 
sons named  whom  suspicion  points  the  finger  at ;  nay,  I  have 
been  assured  at  different  times  that  each  of  them  was  the 
author  in  question.  They  could  not  all  be  the  writer ;  per- 
haps none  of  them  is.  But  in  spite  of  all  the  curiosity  which 
is  imputed  to  our  sex,  I  declare  sincerely,  that  I  would  not 
give  a  pin  for  the  secret.  Tis  indifferent  to  me  who  the  man 
is;  and  whether  he  was  first  dipped  in  the  Thames  or  the 
Tweed,  the  Liffy  or  the  Shannon. 

But  though  I  can't  tell  who  Junius  is,  I  will  tell  you  what 
he  is  like.  Junius  is  like  a  racer  in  the  fields  of  politics,  who 
walks  over  the  course  alone;  no  one  venturing  to  start  against 
him.  I  have  for  some  time  had  a  violent  inclination  to  enter 
at  the  post,  although  I  am  sensible  the  odds  at  starting  would 
be  greatly  against  the  filly;  but  for  all  that,  perhaps,  I  should 
be  up  with  him  at  the  long  run.  But  I  have  run  out  my 
aimile,  and  therefore  must  beg  leave  to  take  a  fresh  one.  Your 
paper,  Mr.  Woodfall,  is  become  the  grand  political  cockpit, 
and  Junius  struts  about  in  it  like  a  cock  whom  nobody  can 
match ;  suppose  that  I  were  pitted  against  him ;  how  do  you 
think  the  bets  would  go  ?  And  what  are  the  odds  that  he 
does  not  come  off  hen-pecked  ?  If  I  should  happen  to  get 
the  better  of  him,  it  will  be  as  much  a  matter  of  public  won- 
der as  the  late  affair  of  the  hen  in  Scotland  Yard,  who  '*  at- 
tacked a  prodigious  large  rat  that  was  carrying  off  one  of  her 
chickens,  and  after  fighting  a  considerable  time,  killed  the  rat, 
to  the  great  joj  and  surprise  of  the  spectatois."  And  besides, 
toim  n  T 


374         msCELLAKEOUS   LETTEBS  ASCBIBEH  TO   JUKIUS. 

how  great  will  be  the  honour  accraing  to  oar  dex  from  such  a 
fictory!  It  will  be  recorded  amongst  the  most  famous  ex- 
ploits in  the  auuals  of  female  prowess ;  and  I  shall  be  ranked 
with  the  most  renowned  heroines  of  antiquity,  Thomjris  and 
Semiramis,  Judith  and  Deborah. 

But  perhaps  the  defeat  of  this  political  Holofemes  may 
not  be  so  very  difficult;  and  indeed  on  a  nearer  view  he  does 
not  appear  half  so  formidable.  When  Junius  stalked  upon 
the  heights  of  declamation^  he  appeared  of  more  than  ordinary 
size,  but  now  that  he  has  descended  to  the  pfain  ground  of 
reason  and  argument,  he  appears  nearly  on  a  level  with  com- 
mon men.  His  letters  on  the  Middlesex  election  are  most 
sophistically  dull,  unless  where  he  throws  in  some  person- 
alities by  way  of  giving  spirit  and  flavour  to  his  political  olio. 
However,  I  don't  believe  that  with  all  his  sophistry  he  has 
made  a  single  convert  to  his  opinion.  I  fancy  there  is  hardly 
one  cool,  moderate,  impartial  person  in  England  who  does  not 
think  that  the  House  of  Commons  are  the  on/y  judges  of  their 
own  privileges ;  that  no  power  on  earth  can  force  a  member 
upon  them,  whom  they  have  declared  incapable  of  being 
elected ;  and,  that  if  any  person  under  such  known  and  de- 
clared incapacity  happens  to  have  the  greatest  number  of 
votes,  the  candidate  who  has  the  next  greatest  number  of  legal 
votes  must  of  course  be  the  sitting  member.  This  opvnum 
seems  to  me  to  be  perfectly  agreeable  to  reason,  to  common 
sense,  and  the  principles  of  the  constitution,  and  (notwith- 
jstanding  the  delusive  appearance  of  petitions  obtained  we  all 
know  how)  I  do  verily  believe  it  is  the  opinion  of  every  can- 
did, impartial,  unprejudiced  person  in  England ;  in  short,  of 
all  those  who  are  not  the  took  of  fa^tion^  or  the  dupes  oj 
party. 

1  am.  Sir, 

Tour  humble  Servant, 

JUNIA*. 

*  Thig  letter  was  claimed,  ai  tlit  prodcetioii  of  hif  own  pen,  by  tht  taM 
Mr.  Gbleb  Whitefoord. 


JUNIUS  TO  THE  PUBLIC  ADTERTTSEB.  276 


LETTER  LIX. 

TO   THE   PBINTER  OF  THE   PUBUC   ADVBETISEB. 

Sib,  September  7,  1769. 

I  FIND  myself  unexpectedly  married  in  the  newspapers,  with- 
out my  knowledge  or  consent.     Since  I  am  fated  to  be  a  hus- 
band, I  hope  at  least  the  lady  will  perform  the  principal  duty 
of  a  wife.     Maniages,  they  say,  are  made  in  heaven,  but  they 
are  consummated  upon  earth,  and  since  Junia  has  adopted 
my  name,  she  cannot,  in  common  matrimonial  decency,  refuse 
to  make  me  a  tender  of  her  person.     Politics  are  too  barren 
a  subject  for  a  new  married  couple.     I  should  be  glad  to  fur- 
nish her  with  one  more  fit  for  a  lady  to  handle,  and  better 
suited  to  the  natural  dexterity  of  her  sex.     In  short,  if  Junia 
be  young  and  handsome,  she  will  have  no  reason  to  complain 
of  my  method  of  conducting  an  argument.     I  abominate  all 
tergiversation  in  discourse,  and  she  may  be  assured  that  what- 
ever I  advance,  whether  it  be  weak  or  forcible,  shall,  at  any 
rate,  be  directly  in  point.     It  is  true  I  am  a  strenuous  advo- 
cate for  liberty  and  property,  but  when  these  rights  are  invaded 
by  a  pretty  woman,  I  am  neither  able  to  defend  my  money 
nor  my  freedom.     The  divine  right  of  beauty  is  the  only  one 
an  Englishman  ought  to  acknowledge,  and  a  pretty  woman 

the  only  tyrant  he  is  not  authorized  to  resist. 

JUNIUS*. 

*  Jimias  repented  that  he  had  written  this  letter  as  soon  as  it  had 
appeared.  He  regarded  it  as  uUe  and  improper;  and  it  was  on  this  occasion 
that  he  addressed  to  Mr.  Wood&ll  the  private  note,  No.  8,  dated  September 
10,  1769;  in  consequence  of  which  the  following  observations  appeared  iu 
the  notice  to  correspondents  in  the  Pttblic  Adveiiiter  of  the  11th  of  Sep- 
tember : — 

"  We  have  some  reason  to  saspect  that  the  last  letter  signed  Junius,  in- 
serted in  this  paper  of  Thursday  last,  was  not  written  by  the  real  Junius, 
though  we  imagine  it  to  hare  been  sent  by  some  one  of  his  waggish  friends, 
who  has  taken  great  pains  to  write  in  a  manner  similar  to  that  of  Juniiis, 
which  observation  escaped  ns  at  that  time.  The  printer  takes  the  liberty  te 
hint  that  it  will  not  do  a  lecosd  time." 


T% 


/ 


276         MISCBLTANBOnS   LRTTKBS   ASCRFBED   10  JUXKra. 


LETTER  LX, 

AUOUB  ON  THE   GRAFTON   MINISTBT. 
Mr.  Woodfall,  September  8,  1769. 

It  is  liard  to  determine  whether  the  actions  of  the  present 
ministry  more   excite  abhorrence   and  indignation,   or  the 
writings  of  their  advocates  contempt  and  ridicule :  every  ac- 
tion of  the  former  is  an  invasion  of  our  liberty  or  our  pro- 
perty; every  line  wrote  in  their  defence  by  the  latter  is  an 
insult  to  our  understanding,  and  a  base  mockery  of  our  suf- 
ferings.    I  have  never  yet  known  a  bad  cause  made  better  by  i 
a  bad  defence.     I  cannot  conceive  what  induces  his  Grace  oi '. 
Grafton  to  employ  such  a  set  of  wretches  to  laugh  at  us  ' 
whilst  we  are  burning  at  the  stake  to  which  he  has  tied  us 
It  is  as  void  of  policy  as  it  is  full  of  inhumanity.     Oppression 
is  more  easily  borne  than  insult ;  and  the  Duke  of  Grafton, 
with  his  new  directors,  the  Bloomsbury  gang,  may  find  that 
it  is  dangerous  to  despise  those  whom  he  has  deeply  injured. 
Why  does  he  let  loose  upon  us  his  troops  of  fools  and  mad- 1 
men,  and  buffoons  and  bullies?    He  would  do  more  wisely  to 
employ  them  in  their  proper  places,  reserving  them  to  excite 
the  mirth,  and  add  to  the  wit,  urbanity,  and  elegance  of  the 
midnight  festivity  of  his  kindred  and  friends,  Weymouth, 
Gower,  and  Rigby,  at  Bedford  House. 

If  the  freeholders  of  this  country,  ala.rmed  at  the  invasion 
of  their  last  and  dearest  right,  the  freedom  of  election,  beg 
in  the  humblest  terms  for  redress,  Poetikastos  dances  before 
them  in  a  fool's  coat,  squirts  dirty  water  in  their  faces,  and 
then  cries  out  to  the  great  joy,  and  with  the  loud  applause  of 
the  gang,  "  You  are  redressed."  To  every  other  complaint, 
whether  of  the  disgraces  which  we  suflfer  abroad,  or  of  the  op- 
pressions which  we  feel  at  home,  whether  the  cry  be  for  property 
ravished  from  us,  for  our  liberties  infringed,  for  the  laws  per- 
verted, for  the  constitution  overturned,  we  have  much  the 
same  answer.  Silurus  is  let  loose  from  his  cell  to  vent  his 
madness,  and  covers  us  with  his  filth.  Pericles  *  stands  If 
him  calling  out  rogue  and  scoundrel ;  and  then  with  one  yokal 

*  PoeUiattot,  Silurtts,  and  Pericles  were  wiiten  in  the  Public  Admrti^ 
ML  kivour  of  admimitntion. 


A.   B.   TO   THE  DUKE  OF  ORAslON.  277 

the  minister  who  employs,  and  the  wretches  who  are  em 
ployed,  cry  out,  •*  We  have  defeated  them;  they  never  dare 
appear  again ;  we  have  hanged  them  up  to  puhlio  soom ;  yoir 
are  a  coward,  cries  one;  I  will  cudgel  you,  says  another;  I  will 
lay  you  a  het  of  14,000  guineas,  ha  wis  a  third."* 

Does  the  Duke  of  Grafton  really  think  that  such  actions  as 
his  are  sufficiently  defended  hy  such  arguments  as  these? 
Are  those  the  lawyers  whom  he  has  retained  against  that 
dreadful  day—  for  that  day  will  come — when  a  brave,  a  haughty, 
and  a  spirited,  though  patient,  people,  shall  demand  ven- 
geance on  his  head  for  all  the  disgraces  and  injuries  which  he 
has  heaped  upon  theirs  ?  Are  these  to  be  his  intercessors  to 
a  misguided  and  betrayed  king  for  mercy  ?  Enjoy  with  your 
associates,  my  Lord,  their  buffoonery  and  their  scurrility 
whilst  you  may:  the  day  is  not  far  ofif — if  the  Almighty  has 
not  in  his  wrath  given  up  this  country  to  that  worst  of  pun- 
ishments, that  most  intolerable  of  all  tyrannies,  the  govern- 
ment of  insolence  without  spirit,  violence  without  vigour, 
ambition  without  dignity,  obstinacy  without  resolution,  and 
ignorance  without  diffidence — the  day  is  not  far  off,  when 
these  insults  will  be  retorted  most  severely,  and  humanity 
itself  will  not  be  able  to  keep  them  from  your  head,  though 
that  head  should  be  on  the  block. 

AUGUR. 


LETTER  LXL 

A.   B.   TO  .THE  DUKE   OF  GRAFTON  f. 

Mt  Lord,  Noyember  10, 1769. 

The  facility  with  which  you  abandoned  your  earliest  connec- 
tions in  friendship  and  politics  was,  I  doubt  not,  a  leading 

*  A  challenge  had  been  absurdly  ^yen  to  Junius  by  several  writers  in  the 
Pviblie  Advertiter,  as  well  as  by  Sir  William  Draper ;  and  one  correspondent, 
as  here  referred  to,  had  the  egregious  folly  to  propose  a  bet  of  14,000  guineas, 
being,  as  he  stated,  his  whole  fortune,  "  that  he  could  produce  in  six  months 
a  counter-petition,  signed  by  4,000  freeholders,  all  men  qf  sense,  begging  his 
Majesty  to  confine  the  ringleaders  of  the  opposition,  and  bind  them  over  to 
their  good  behayiour/' 

i"  Thb  letter  was  printed  by  the  desire  of  Junius  in  the  Pvhlic  Advertiser^ 
but  WHi  liot  written  by  him.    See  ?riyate  Letter,  No.  11.     It  was^  howeyei^ 


d7$         MISCELLANEOUS   LETTERS  ASCRIBED  TO  JJNIU8. 

r«)commendation  to  establish  your  credit  at  St.  James*8.  A 
gracious  discerning  prince,  who,  even  at  the  moment  of  hi^ 
"accession,  had  fortitude  enough  to  get  the  better  of  eveiy 
predilection  which  he  might  be  supposed  to  have  inherited 
from  his  ancestors  in  favour  of  the  friends  of  the  House  of 
Hanover,  must  have  observed  with  pleasure  that  your  Grace 
was  equally  ready  to  desert  the  friends  who  contributed  most 
to  your  advancement,  and  to  adopt  new  principles  of  govern- 
ment. I  will  not  complain  of  a  change  of  system,  for  which 
you  had  so  powerful  a  precedent,  and  which  you  have  found 
so  favourable  to  your  ambition.  But  there  are  rules  of  de- 
cency, my  Lord,  which  a  wiser  man  would  have  observed, 
even  in  the  grossest  violation  of  morals.  There  is  a  certain 
sort  of  hostilities  which  is  forbidden  by  the  laws  of  war  be- 
tween nations,  and  by  the  laws  of  enmity  between  individuals. 
The  contentions  of  party  have  given  a  fashionable  latitude  to 
the  principles  of  modem  morality ;  but  still,  my  Lord,  there 
are  some  characters  too  great  and  venerable  to  be  insulted ; 
there  is  yet  a  certain  breach  of  decorum,  which  the  public 
will  not  submit  to.  Was  the  Duke  of  Kutland  the  only  man 
in  this  country  at  whose  expense  you  could  gratify  Xiord 
Denbigh?  One  would  think,  my  Lord,  that  if  his  uniform 
adherence  to  the  principles  of  the  revolution,  his  steady  at- 
tachment to  the  House  of  Hanover,  and  the  important  ser- 
vices which  he  and  his  family  have  rendered  to  that  House, 
could  possibly  be  forgotten,  there  was  yet  something  in  his 
age,  his  rank,  his  personal  character,  and  private  virtues. 
which  might  have  entitled  him  to  respect.  Was  it  necessary, 
my  Lord,  to  pursue  him  into  his  own  county  on  purpose  to 
insult  him  ?  Was  it  proper,  was  it  decent,  that  while  a  Duke 
of  Rutland  is  lord  lieutenant,  the  Earl  of  Denbigh's  recom- 
mendation should  govern  the  county  of  Leicester*?      Had 

•o  generally  supposed  to  have  been  his,  that  Junius  himself  thought  it  necet* 
sary  to  request  the  printer  to  publish  the  following  contradiction  in  the  same 
journal,  November  17.  "  We  can  assure  the  public  that  the  letter  signed 
A.  B.,  relative  to  the  Duke  of  Rutland,  is  not  written  by  the  author  of 
Junius." 

*  It  refers  to  certain  justices  of  the  peace  having  been  mado  at  the  request 
of  Lord  Denbigh,  by  a  commission  of  the  Lord  Chancellor  (Camden)  and 
others,  for  the  county  of  Leicester,  without  consulting  the  Diike  of  Rutland, 
who  was  lord  lieutenant,  and  n  ho,  ex  officio,  ought  to  have  been  honoured 
vith  the  nomination. 


1.   B.   TO  THE   DUKE  OF   GBAFTOK  379 

ViOrd  Denbigh  no  friends  in  Leicestershire  but  r&nk  Tories  to 
recommend  for  the  commission  of  the  peace?  And  is  it  under 
a  prince  who  owes  his  crown  to  the  Whig  interest  of  England 
ttmt  a  minister  dares  to  send  such  a  mandate  to  the  Duke  of 
Rutland  ?  I  know  his  Grace's  spirit,  and  doubt  not  of  his  re- 
turning you  an  answer  proper  for  you  and  for  himself. 

United  as  you  are,  my  Lord,  with  men  whose  concern  for 
the  safety  of  the  church,  and  whose  zeal  for  the  prerogative  of 
the  crown  has  been  so  often  unluckily  mistaken  for  simple 
jacobitism,  I  take  for  granted  you  are  as  well  acquainted  with 
their  history  as  with  their  principles.  You  are  able  to  tell 
us,  and  surely  the  public  has  a  right  to  expect  it  from  you, 
by  what  species  of  merit  the  Earl  of  Denbigh  has  contrived  to 
make  himself  so  distinguished  a  favourite  at  court.  Was  it  the 
notorious,  attachment  of  his  family  to  the  House  of  Hanover, 
or  his  own  personal  accomplishments  ?  Was  it  his  fortune  that 
made  him  respectable,  or  his  beggary  that  made  him  submis- 
sive ?  Was  it  the  generous  exertion  of  his  great  abilities  in 
parliament,  or  the  humble  assiduity  of  his  attendance  at  Lord 
Bute's  levee?  Was  it  the  manly  firmness  of  his  personal 
appearance,  or  the  pliant  politeness  of  his  temper  ?  Was  it 
the  independent  dignity  with  which  he  maintains  the  rank  of 
a  peer,  or  the  complaisance  with  which  he  accepts  and  executes 
the  honourable  office  of  a  spy?  Whatever  have  been  his  merits 
or  services,  they  are  undoubtedly  of  a  complexion  very  different 
from  those  of  the  Duke  of  Rutland. 

His  Grace  has  now  wisely  exchanged  that  busy  scene,  in 
which  he  never  appeared  but  with  honour,  for  an  hospitable 
retirement.  His  age  will  not  permit  us  to  hope  that  he  can 
long  be  the  object  of  the  spite  of  such  a  creature  as  Lord 
Denbigh,  nor  of  the  scorn  and  insult  of  such  a  minister  as  your 
Grace.  But  he  will  leave  a  family,  my  Lord,  whose  principles 
of  freedom  are  hereditary,  from  whose  resentment  you  will 
have  everything  to  apprehend.  As  for  himself,  I  shall  only 
say,  that  if  it  were  possible  for  the  views  and  wishes  of  the 
Tories  to  succeed,  if  it  were  possible  for  them  to  place  a  Stuart 
once  more  upon  the  throne,  their  warmest  hopes  and  ambition 
might  be  disappointed.  He  too,  like  another  judicious  prince, 
might  think  it  the  best  policy  of  his  government  to  choose  his 
friends  and  favourites  from  among  the  declared^  notorious, 
determined  enemies  of  his  .^amily.    The  Tories  who  placed 


280  MISCELLANEOUS  LETTERS  ASCBIBED  TO  JUNIUS. 

bim  upon  the  throne  might  oe  dnven  disgi^acefally  from  his 
presence;  and,  upon  the  same  principle,  I  challenge  your 
Grace  to  point  out  a  man  more  likely  to  be  invited  to  the 
place  of  first  minister  and  favourite  than  the  Duke  of  Rut- 
land. 

A.  B\ 


LETTER  LXII. 

ATTACK  ON  JUNIUS  BT  MESSALA. 

Norember  17,  1769. 
Junius  may  change  his  signature,  his  manner  be  cannot 
change.  The  far-fetched  antithesis,  the  empty  period,  the 
pert  loquacity,  distinguish  the  writer;  and  the  rancorous 
and  impudent  falsehood  discovers  the  man.  In  vain  has  he 
attempted  to  conceal  himself  under  initials ;  he  is  as  invari- 
able in  the  tenor  of  his  diction  as  he  is  in  the  bias  of  his 
mind. 

It  was,  however,  a  mark  of  some  judgment  in  Mr. to 

use  a  new  signature  in  your  paper  of  Friday.  A,  B,  may 
praise  the  Duke  of  Rutland,  though  Junius  has  infamously 
traduced  the  Marquis  of  Granbyf.  By  a  mean  subterfuge, 
an  appearance  of  propriety  may  be  preserved  among  the 
superficial ;  but  the  generous  and  discerning  must  despise  and 
detest  a  man  who  makes  the  interests  of  a  profligate  party 
the  only  standard  by  which  he  regulates  his  encomium  as  well 
as  his  abuse. 

But  to  set  the  public  right  in  a  matter  of  fact  is  the  only 
design  of  this  letter.  The  insertion  of  particular  persons  by 
mandate,  without  issuing  a  new  commission  of  the  peace,  has 
been  in  daily  practice ;  and  is  an  undoubted  power  lodged  in 
the  great  seal ;  but  in  that  alone ;  nor  can  any  other  servant 
of  the  crown  interfere,  no  more  than  in  a  decree  of  that  great 
oflficer,  the  Chancellor  in  the  Court  uf  Chancery. 

I  *  The  above  letter,  though  at owedly  not  from  the  pen  of  Janim,  wai 

reprinted  in  the  Public  Advertiser  from  another  journal  at  hii  request.     It 
was  replied  to  a  few  days  afterwards  by  the  letter  that  follows  it,  to  with' 
hold  which  would  be  an  act  of  injustice. 
t  THa  Marquis  of  Granby,  eldest  sod  «f  tbe  Duke  of  Butland. 


X.  X.   AND  MB.   ONSLOW  281 

The  principles  of  that  nohle  Lord  are  as  well  known  as 
those  of  the  remainder  of  the  £jng*s  mifiisters,  who,  notwith- 
standing every  aspersion  to  the  contrary  from  factious  artifices, 
have  on  every  occasion  proved  themselves  to  he  the  supporters 
of  the  real  liberty  of  the  people,  and  of  the  true  spirit  of  the 
constitution. 

Has  the  Lord  Chancellor  in  any  instance  deviated  from 
such  a  character?  And  yet  if  Junius,  or  his  shadow  A,  B. 
were  right,  this  noble  Lord  would  be  termed  a  Jacobite:  for 
if  there  is  anything  improper  in  the  appointment,  he  is  the 
man  who  should  be  charged,  and  not  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  on 
whom  calumny  endeavours  to  fix  the  mistakes  of  others. 

Junius,  in  his  zeal  for  his  party,  defeats  the  means  he  uses 
to  serve  them.  Unfortunately  for  his  cause,  the  attacks  he 
makes  upon,  and  his  charges  against,  the  Duke  of  Grafton, 
require  only  to  be  fairly  stated  to  confute  themselves ;  and 
thus  (I  will  do  him  the  justice  to  suppose)  without  design  he 
becomes  the  panegynst  of  a  character  he  wishes  to  ruin  in  the 
eyes  of  the  world. 

I  am,  Sir, 

Tour  humble  servant, 

MESSALA*. 


LETTER  LXIII 

X.  X.   AND  MB.   ONSLOW. 

NoTember  17, 1769. 
I  WILL  not  pretend  to  say  that  the  inclosed  letter  is  a  very 
severe  libel  on  its  right  honourable  author!     And  yet,  Mr. 
Woodfall,  you  may  safely  print  it ;  for  though  we  have  laws 
against  self-murder,  there  are  none  against  self-libelling. 

A  curious  collection  of  correspondence,  both  politic^al  and 
amorous,  has  lately  fallen  into  my  hands,  with  which  I  shall 
from  time  to  time  furnish  you,  reserving  the  most  extraordi- 
nary of  both  kii  ds  till  the  last,  four  la  bonne  houch$, 

X.  Zf. 

*  To  this  letter  A,  B.  gave  an  answer,  bat,  aa  it  decidedly  wu  not  writtea 
fcy  Jnniiu,  we  have  omitted  it 

tMr.  Onslow  was  at  this  time  persecuting  Wilkes  with  all  the  acrimony 
is  power,  in  unison  with  the  Dnke  of  Qrafton,  both  of  whom  had  a  fovi 


282  MISGZLLAKEOUS  lETTERS  A8CB1B£D  TO  JUNIUS. 

Mt  dear  Wukss, 
I  A  If  very  sorry  to  have  been  prevented  seeing  you  to-day, 
but  I  hope  to  have  a  good  account  of  you  by  the  return  of  my 
servant  who  brings  you  this :  perhaps  you  may  be  better  if 
mere  of  your  friends  besides  myself  have  missed  troubling  yoa 

yean  before  professed  the  wannest  friendsliip  for  Wilkes.  Mr.  Home,  not 
then  at  enmity  with  Wilkes,  luid  jast  pnUisbed  the  following  letter  of  a 
similar  kind^  of  which  Wilkes  had  given  him  a  copy : — 

To  the  Printer  ojf  the  Public  Advertiter. . 

Sib,  July  14, 1769. 

Hart  of  your  readers  haTing  seen  an  abuse  on  Mr.  Home,  for  the  publicatiia 
of  a  letter  from  Mr.  Onslow  to  Mr.  Wilkes,  are  desirous  of  seeing  that 
original. 

OOPT  OV  ▲  UaZBB  VBOK  OlOBOB  OKSliOW,  XSQ.,  TO  JOHK  WILKES,   BSQ. 

"  Ember  Court, 
<'  My  Dbab  Old  Fbiend,  "  September  21, 1765* 

"  Haviro  been  most  shamefully  silent  to  you  during  the  remainder  of  ai 
opposition  which  did  honour  to  every  man  concerned  in  it,  and  to  the  credit 
of  which  you  so  much  contributed,  I  now  b^n  my  correspondence  with 
you,  at  my  first  entering  into  offiee  with,  and  under,  an  administration  whose 
principles  I  hope  and  believe  will  authorize  your  giving  equal  support  to  in 
their  very  different  situation.  If  they  did  not,  as  I  know  they  do,  revere 
and  hold  sacred  those  sentiments  they  avowed  during  the  last  two  years, 
and  in  abhorrence  those  vile  and  detestable  ones  of  persecution  and  injustice, 
by  which  the  public  were  so  injured  in  your  person,  I  should  be  asluuned  of 
what  I  am  now  proud  of,  bearing  the  small  share  I  do  among  them.  Public 
marks  of  this,  as  well  as  private  ones,  I  hope  will  soon  take  place. 

**  Honest  Humphrey  has  dined  with  me  here  to-day,  and  we  have  just 
drank  yom*  health,  as  we  have  often  done.  Honest  as  he  is,  I  never  felt 
him  more  so  than  your  last  letter  to  him,  which  he  has  just  now  showed  me, 
has  made  him  appear  to  me,  in  having  done  justice  to  my  very  sincere  and 
constant  regards  to,  and  admiration  of  you.  Every  word  of  this  letter  of 
yours  (dated  August  26,  from  Geneva)  I  subscribe  to,  and  think  and  per* 
siiade  myself  the  completion  of  our  patriot,  not  selfish,  wishes  (for  such  they 
are  not)  will  soon  i^ppear  among  many  other  proofs  of  integrity,  steadiness, 
and  virtue,  in  the  present  ministry,  and  of  their  being  as  inimical  as  ever 
to  those  whom  they  have  been  opposing,  for  having  acted  contrary  to  all 
these  principles. 

"  Your  friend,  Mrs.  Onslow,  has  been  enjoying  with  us,  in  infinite  mirth, 
your  last  specimens  c»f  notes  on  different  parts  of  great  Ohurchiirs  works^ 
via.  Hogarth,  Talbot,  and  the  scoundrel  Bishop.  They  are  specimens 
indeed  of  your  amazing  wit  and  abilities ;  and  when  he  has  more  of  them  he 
has  promised  me  a  copy. 

"  Believe  me,  my  dear  John,  your  mentioning  me  as  yonr  do  gratifies  my 

(ride,  as  it  will  always  do  to  show  myself  your  friend  and  humble  servant 
was  always  so  as  a  public  and  as  a  private  man.  Our  good  friend  Hiunphref 


X.  X.   AND  MB,  ONBLOW.  283 

to-day ;  as  I'm  sure  quiet  and  keeping  down  your  wonderful 
(low  of  spirits  must  do  you  good.  To  most  men  in  your  situa- 
tion such  a  caution  would  surely  be  needless,  because  men  ot 
less  greatness  of  mind,  and  of  a  less  noble  spirit  than  yourself, 
would  yield  to  such  a  load  of  damnable  persecution  from  the 
most  dangerous  administration  that  ever  was  in  this  country 
But  honest  men  like  yourself  know  how  to  despise  it  and  them, 
and  to  rise  superior  to  them  all. 

If  I  had  a  mind  to  raise  your  indignation,  I  would  bid  you 
think  of  the  similarity  of  these  times  to  those  you  and  I  have 
talked  of  with  abhorrence ;  but  as  I  mean  always  to  add  to 
jour  comfort  and  satisfieu^tion,  I  will  desire  you  to  think  of  the 
similarity  of  your  own  circumstances  to  those  of  the  many 
great  and  good  men  that  lived  in  those  times,  and  suffered  as 
you  do  now.  Ilememl>er  how  greatly  they  were  ihooght  of, 
and  how  their  characters  are  respected  now,  and  remember, 
and  be  assured  to  your  comfort,  that  let  the  iron  hand  of 
power  fall  ever  so  heavy  on  you  (it  can*t  fall  very  heavy,  from 
your  innocence)  every  honest  man,  and  every  gentleman,  must 
bestow  the  same  degree  of  applause  on  you  as  they  must  of 
abhorrence  and  detestation  on  your  and  their  country's  ene- 
mies. I  will  certainly  call  on  you  to-morrow  morning  or 
evening.  I  have  nothing  new  to  send  you.  I  hope  it  is  not 
§o  to  you  that  I  am  unalterably. 

Dear  Wilkes, 
Your  faithful  and  affectionate 
humble  servant, 
Cunon  Street,  Monday  Night,  GEORGE  ONSLOW. 

November  21,  1763. 

Mrs.  Onslow  sends  you  her  comps.  I  wish  you  would 
appoint  honest  faithful  Humphrey  to  meet  me  at  your  house 
precisely  at  one  o'clock  on  Wednesday.  I  have  a  thousand 
things  to  say  to  him. 

and  I  are  at  this  moment  in  your  service,  and  from  us  both  yon  shall  soon 
hear,  particularly  as  to  the  contents  of  your  letter  of  the  26th.  I  beg 
you  to  believe  that  I  most  truly  and  affectionately  am  your  faithful,  humble 
servant, 

"Geo.  Onslow. 
**  P.S.  Postpone  your  judgment  till  yon  hear  again  from  me,  on  what  I 
lament  as  much  as  you  can  do,  and  think  of  as  you  do<^Mr.  Pitt  and  LonI 
Temple's  being  not  in  employment." 


284  MISCELLANEOUS    LETTEB8  ASCHIBED  TO     JUNIU& 

LETTER  LXIV. 

X.   X.   AND   MR.   ONSLOW. 

NoTember  20,  1769. 
I  CANNOT  but  admire  the  easy  assurance  with  which  that 
modest  gentleman  who  writes  for  the  Gazetteer  informs  oa 
tliat  he  has  gained  a  complete  victory  over  Junius.  It  is  not 
the  first  time  that  the  silence  and  moderation  of  Junius  have 
been  mistaken  for  submission,  nor  is  this  the  first  blockhead 
who  has  plumed  himself  upon  an  imaginary  triumph  over  the 
favourite  of  the  public. — ^I  wish,  however,  if  he  be  in  the 
secret,  that  he  would  tell  us  plainly  whether  the  officers  of  the 
guards  are  to  be  tried  or  not  ?  If  they  are  not.  the  observa- 
tions made  by  Junius  upon  the  conduct  of  the  ministry  return 
with  double  force.  If  they  are,  Junius  is  right,  and  acts 
honourably  in  not  pushing  his  inquiries  further*.  As  to  the 
facts,  it  is  unnecessary  for  him  to  say  anything  in  support  of 
tliem.  They  are  so  notorious  that  the  parties  themselves 
cannot,  dare  not  deny  them.  If  Captain  Garth  did  not 
wilfully  abandon  his  guard,  why  does  he  not  demand  a  court- 
martial  to  clear  his  character  ?  And  would  not  the  ministry, 
for  their  own  credit,  take  care  that  Captain  Dodd  should 
be  brought  to  a  trial  if  they  were  not  absolutely  certain  that 
a  court-martial  must  cashier  them?  Truly,  Sir,  these  gentle- 
men have  a  bitter  enemy  in  Modestus  f.  It  appears  to  me 
that  he  has  some  secret  rancour  against  them,  which  nothing 
can  satisfy  but  the  loss  of  their  commissions. 

X.Z. 


LETTER  LXV. 

T.  Y.   IN   REPLY  TO  X.  X 

Sib,  Noyember  28, 1769. 

u  UNIU8  and  his  journeymen  have  engrossed  the  whole  alpha* 
bet ;  but  from  ^.  ^.  to  X.  X,  the  style  and  manner  of  the 

*  Junini^  in  Private  Letter,  No.  11,  auigns  the  folio wirg  reason  for  thus 
dtKjIining  it :  "The  only  thing  that  hinders  my  pushing  tie  subject  of  my 
iaflt  letter  is  really  the  fear  of  ruining  that  poor  devil  Gansel,  and  those  otbef 
l^ioi  kheads." 

f  Moduiut,  as  before  observed,  was  a  Mr.  Dalrymple.  a  Scotch  lawjac 


r.  T.   IN   JREPLY   TO  X.  X  281. 

shop  are  easily  discovered.  From  alpha  to  omega  the  same 
attention  to  a  period,  and  the  same  neglect  of  good  sense, 
manners,  and  propriety.  However,  Mr,  X,  X,  in  to-day's 
Public  Advertiser  has  even  out-heroded  Herod.  It  was 
certainly  unpardonable  presumption  in  the  modest  gentleman 
who  writes  for  the  Gazetteer  to  assume  the  merit  of  a  victoiy 
over  the  young  gentleman  who  writes  for  the  Public  Adver* 
titer.  But  Te  Deums  have  been  sung  before  on  as  slender 
foundations.  The  young  gentleman,  with  that  fire  and  spirit 
which  accompanies  green  years,  threw  down  his  glove  to  the 
world,  and  challenged  all  mankind  to  contradict  the  truth  of 
certain  facts,  or  the  justice  of  certain  observations.     He  pro- 

Eosed,  if  not  a  reward  to  the  champion  who  should  vanquish 
im,  at  least  a  punishment  to  himself  if  vanquished ;  nor  that 
a  slight  one,  if  he  were,  as  X,  X,  says  he  is,  the  favourite  of 
the  public.     The  modest  gentleman  ventured  to  take  up  the 

glove,  and  with  a  boldness  not  very  consistent  with  his  name, 
emonstrate^  that  the  narrative  was  false  in  every  circum- 
stance material  to  the  question ;  and  the  observations  not  only 
ridiculous  in  the  view  of  supporting  the  conclusion  attempted 
to  be  drawn,  but  in  a  supreme  degree  injudicious  to  the  cause 
they  were  intended  to  promote. 

To  this  Junius,  with  prudence  beyond  hb  years,  makes  no 
reply,  and  Modestus,  after  a  decent  forbearance,  presumes  to 
put  him  in  mind  of  his  challenge.  This  produced  the  letter 
signed  Junius,  in  your  paper  one  day  last  week ;  in  which,  to 
speak  negatively,  he  neither  supports  the  truth  of  his  narra- 
tive, or  tlie  justice  of  his  observations,  and  in  which,  to  speak 
positively,  he  gives  up  both.  Not  fsdrly,  nor  with  the  candour 
of  a  gentleman  who  is  convinced  of  his  rash  and  dangerous 
mistake ;  but  with  the  struggles  and  evasions  of  a  culprit  who 
is  convicted  of  a  crime. 

.  Upon  this  true  state  of  the  dispute,  Modestus  most  impu- 
dently assumed  to  himself  the  victory ;  and  I  must  confess 
he  seemed  to  have  the  appearance  of  a  claim  to  it.  But  Mr, 
X,  X,  has  clearly  demonstrated  the  contrary;  and  the  method 
this  honourable  gentleman  has  taken  to  chain  victory  to  the 
triumphant  car  of  the  public's  favourite  adds  greatly  to  his 
snerit. 

A  person  of  vulgar  understanding  would  have  descended 
3ito  a  tedious  detail ;  he  wo*' id  have  endeavoured  to  show  by 


28d  MISCELLANEOUS   LETTEBS  ASGBIBED   7.)  JTJNIU8. 

argument  and  fact  that  Junius  was  in  the  right,  and  Modestus 
in  the  wrong.  But  Mr.  X,  X,  another  Alexander,  cuts  the 
Gordian  knot  at  onoe,  and  annih'lates  the  pretensions  of  Mo- 
destus  with  a  single  word.  There  is  so  much  energy,  so  much 
eloquence,  so  much  of  the  polite  scholar,  the  gendeman,  and 
the  patriot,  in  the  term  blockhead,  that  if  Modestus  possesses 
but  a  shadow  of  what  its  name  imports,  he  must  fairly  con- 
fess himself  routed ;  and  instead  of  Te  Deum,  I  would  advise 
him  to  sing  De  profundis. 

It  was  to  be  sure  the  height  of  insolence  in  Modestiut  to  at- 
tack the  favourite  of  the  public ;  but  it  may  6e  pleaded  in  his 
excuse,  that  the  public  has  several  favourites  who  are  shrewdly 
suspected  to  be  unworthy  of  its  favour ;  and  Junius  has  staked 
and  forfeited  that  favour  of  which  he  had  much  reason  to  be 
proud.  But  pray,  Mr,  X.  X.,  have  not  you  been  guilty  of  a 
trifling  error,  by  substituting  the  public  in  place  of  the  mob  ? 
You  wish  to  know  whether  the  officers  are  to  be  tried  or  not. 
For  answer  give  me  leave  to  ask  you  whether  you  have  learned 
to  read  ?  Had  that  essential  part  of  your  education  been  at- 
tended to,  you  would  not  have  been  so  ignorant  of  what  has 
been  explained  again  and  again,  and  you  would  not  have  been 
so  illiberal  to  imagine  you  could  better  a  bad  cause  by  calling 
names,  an  argument  which  deserves  no  answer  but  the 
strapado 

But  your  education  did  not  depend  on  yourself,  and  perhaps 
you  are  left-handed,  which  I  have  been  told  by  many  intelli- 
gent Hibernians,  your  countrymen,  is  an  insurmountable  bar 
to  scholarship ;  yet  common  sense  is  the  portion  of  the  un- 
learned as  well  as  of  the  learned,  and  though  you  may  be  but 
an  indifferent  scholar,  there  was  no  occasion  to  insult  her  in 
the  way  you  have  done.  The  world  hitherto  has  believed  that 
Junius  was  rather  unfriendly  to  the  officers  concerned  in  Ge- 
neral Gansel's  rescue,  when  he  publicly  aggravated  their 
ofiFence  from  a  common  breach  of  the  peace  to  an  outrage 
against  the  constitution;  and  it  believed  that  Modesttu  was 
not  their  enemy  for  endeavouring  to  show  that  Junius  was  in 
the  wrong,  and  representing  all  the  circumstances  of  excuse 
which  the  nature  of  the  case  afforded.  But  here  also  Mr 
X.  X.  has  convinced  the  world  of  its  mistake :  and  it  stands 
on  his  infallible  authority,  that  Junius  is  a  faithful  friend  to 
these  officers,  and  Modestw  a  rancorous  and  inveterate  enemy^ 


CASE  OF  OEKEBAL  OAN6EL.  287 

whom  nothing  can  satisfy  but  the  loss  of  their  commissions 
.The  force  of  genius  is  certainly  wonderful !  It  discovers  in 
propositions  the  very  reverse  of  what  they  contain.  But  Mr, 
X.  X.f  when  you  address  the  public  again,  remember,  that 
though  paradoxes  astonish,  they  do  not  convince  against 
evidence. 

However,  we  are  but  seconds  in  the  quarrel  between  Mo- 
destus  and  Junius,  and  we  ought  not  to  suffer  our  principals 
to  proceed  to  extremities.  To  soften  the  rancour  of  their 
eontention,  I  would  propose  that  some  friendly  unfriendly 
greeting  (as  Shakespeare  calls  it)  should  pass  between  them. 
They  need  not  exchange  armour,  like  Glaucus  and  Diomede 
(an  .example  which  would  afford  me  many  choice  allusions  if 
I  had  time  to  pursue  them),  but  they  may  exchange  names. 
The  propriety  of  this  no  man  can  dispute,  for  even  X.  X,  will 
agree  with  me  that  Modestus  is  a  little  young,  and  Junius  not 
a  little  modest. 

I  am,  Sir, 

Your  humble  Servant, 

T.  T, 


LETTER  LXVI. 

CASE   OF  GENERAL  GANSEL. 

Sib,  Noyember  25, 1769. 

,  For  answer  to  my  last  letter,  in  which  I  asked  a  very  plain 
question,  viz.,  whether  the  officers  of  the  guards  were  or 
were  not  to  be  tried  for  the  rescue  of  General  Gansel  ?  your 
correspondent  Y.  Y,  contents  himself  with  another  question, 
whether  I  had  learnt  to  read?  The  question  is  pertinent 
enough,  and  as  much  to  the  purpose  as  if  he  had  inquired  the 
hour  of  the  day.  Will  this  gentleman  be  so  good  as  to  quit 
all  circumlocution,  and  tell  us  what  we  are  to  trust  to  ?  Is 
Captain  Garth,  who  deserted  his  guard  at  noon-day,  an  equerry 
to  the  Duke  of  Cumberland  ?  Did  he  not  leave  the  command 
of  his  guard  to  a  person  who  had  as  little  right  to  take  it  as 
Buckhorse,  and  is  he  or  is  he  not  protected  by  his  Royal 
Highness  ?  Is  not  Captain  Dodd  the  old  friend  of  Henry 
Lawes  Luttrell,  and  the  son  of  the  oldest  and  most  intimatt 


"■-s 


i 
i 


"T    ^ 


*-e-T,*^^ 


■^1 


vn 

:  Tories  to 
ia  it  under 
f  EnRland 
e  Duke  of 
.  of  his  re- 
If. 

>ncero  for 
ogative  of 
or  simple 
iuted  with 
lie  to  loll 
from  fou, 
mtrivod  to 
Was  it  the 
Hanover, 
rtune  tbai 
a  Bnbmis- 
.hilities  ia 
«  at  Lord 
I  personal 


his  raerita 
y  different 


hospitable 
lat  be  can 
)  ae  Lord 
cer  aa  your 
principles 
t  you  will 
shall  only 
les  of  the 
ce  a  Stuart 
1  ambition 


290  MISCELLANEOUS   LETTEBS  ASCBIBED   TO  JUNIUS. 

Utmost  gratitude  to  the  friendly  and  compassionate  Junius, 
who  requires  no  greater  punishment  for  an  ofifence  of  this 
heinous  nature  than  to  ruin  the  fortune  and  reputation  of 
the  person  who  committed  it. 

I  must  also  congratulate  you  upon  that  candour  and  modera- 
tion with  which  you  declined  the  contest  on  this  point,  lest  you 
should  prejudge  the  trial,  civil  or  military,  which  I  told  you 
was  intended.  This  circumstance  affords  so  striking  a  proof 
of  your  humanity,  that  you  leave  me  at  a  loss  in  what  manner 
to  acknowledge  it. 

But  raillery  apart.  Have  ydu  really  forgot,  or  are  you 
so  supine,  that  you  could  not  take  the  trouble  to  look  over 
my  letter  before  you  crowded  together  so  many  ridiculous 
questions  ?  It  is  there  affirmed  that  these  unfortunate  gen- 
tlemen would  have  been  immediately  tried  by  military  law, 
unless  it  had  occurred  that  a  trial  by  court-martial  might  pos- 
sibly prejudge  the  civil  action  intended  to  be  carried  on  by 
the  party  injured.  Some  reasons  for  this  were  given,  and 
such  as  ought  to  have  satisfied  a  patriot  at  least.  But  I  have 
learned  by  much  observation  that  nothing  will  satisfy  a  patriot 
but  a  place. 

Once  more  I  will  state  those  reasons,  and  though  I  do  not 
believe  you  will  feel  them,  yet  1  am  persuaded  every  man 
who  knows  or  values  our  constitution  will  be  convinced  of 
their  weight. 

By  the  articles  of  war  a  military  officer  who  shall  oppose 
or  resist  the  civil  magistrate  in  the  execution  of  his  duty, 
shall  be  cashiered ;  and  the  only  question  that  remains  is,  in 
what  manner  can  the  offence  be  ascertained?  I  maintain 
that  a  court-martial  cannot  enter  into  the  question  of  fact  by 
leading  evidence  to  prove  that  the  offence  was  committed, 
because  this  would  be  to  deprive  an  Englishman  of  his  right 
of  trial  for  civil  offences  by  jury.  The  legal  and  constitu- 
tional method  of  procedure  in  these  cases  is  a  common  trial 
at  law  for  a  civil  ofifence,  and  a  conviction  of  the  offender  at 
common  law  is  the  only  evidence  upon  which  a  court-martial 
can  proceed  to  inflict  the  military  punishment.  This  being 
so,  had  a  court-martial  been  ordered,  or  were  it  now  ordered 
upon  these  gentlemen,  it  would  be  a  manifest  violation  of 
their  privileges  as  Englishmen :  because  the  issue  is  not  yet 
tried  at  common  law:   and  till  the  offenders  are  tried  and 


MODESTUS  TO  JUNIUS.  291 

ooiivdcted  at  law,  there  exists  no  medium  on  which  a  .ourt- 
martial  can  proceed. 

This  doctrine  may  be  new  to  you ;  but  it  is  not  so  to  any 
man  acquainted  with  the  constitution  of  which  you  pretend 
to  be  an  assertor.     The  single  point  in  dispute  between  us 
is,  whether  the  ministry  acted  properly  or  improperly  in  the 
affair  of  General  Gansels   rescue?    You  say  the  minister 
ought   to  have  ordered  a  court-martial  to  try  the  officers 
concerned  in  it  immediately;   and  because  he  did  not  you 
accuse  him  to  the  public.     I,  on  the  other  hand,  affirm  that 
a  court-martial  ought  not  to  have  been  called  immediately ; 
that  the  officers   could   not  have    been    tried  consistently, 
with  the  laws  of  the  land;  and  if  the  minister  had  acted 
otherwise  than  he  did,  he  would  have  been  guilty  of  a  very 
gross  violation  of  our  rights.     The  reasons  on  which  we  found 
this  difference  in  opinion  are  before  the  public,  and  it  will 
judge  of  them  without  respect  to  you  or  to  me.     Whether 
the  parties  have  denied  the  facts  or  not,  whether  Colonel 
Salter  speaks  or  holds  his  tongue,  are  very  immaterial  circum- 
stances ;  but  if  my  position  is  right.  Lord  Barrington  has  not 
neglected  his  duty  in  not  moving  the  King  to  order  a  court- 
martial,  which  the  King  could  nbt  order  in  the  present  state 
of  the  case  consistently  with  that  tender  regard  which  his 
Majesty  has  ever  shown  for  the  civil  rights  of  his  subjects. 
To  answer  directly  the  question  you  ask,  whether  or  not  the 
officere  are  to  be  tried?  is  impossible.     It  is  a  future  event, 
and  though  the  present  intention  of  the  ministry  is,  I  believe, 
favourable  to  the  rancour  of  Junius,  no  man  can  tell  what 
time  may  produce.     But  the  question  is  certainly  premature, 
and  indeed  the  whole  dispute  would  haye  come  more  properly 
before  the  public  after  the  civil  trial,  which  naturally  and 
necessarily  mus*  precede  the  court-martial. 

No  motive  engaged  me  to  enter  into  this  altercation,  save 
an  honest  indignation  excited  by  your  malevolence,  ignorance, 
and  misrepresentation.  I  foresaw  the  illiberal  use  to  which 
1  exposed  myself,  and  I  received  it  as  it  deserves  to  be  re- 
ceived. I  will  not  do  any  of  your  allies  the  honour  to  take 
notice  of  them,  but  I  recommend  it  to  you  to  tie  up  that  ovei 
drove  animal  John  Bull,  who  seems  indeed  to  be  stimolated 
U>   madness,  that  he  may  no  longer  profane  a  respectable 

u  9 


292  MISCELIJLNE017S  L2TTEBS  ASCRIBED   TO  JUNIUS. 

name,  but  own  that  which  be  received  from  his  godfaihefw 
and  godmothers,  viz.,  Patrick  O'BuUj. 

MODBSTUS. 


LETTER  LXVIII. 


BEPLT  TO   MODESTUS. 


SOy  December  2, 1769. 

I  NEVER  doubted  that  the  unfortunate  Modestus,  if  left  to 
tiimself,  would  soon  ruin  himself  and  his  clients.  He  has 
now  fairly  clinched  the  matter.  In  his  letter  of  this  daj  his 
whole  defence  of  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  and  all  the  weight  of 
his  arguments  against  Junius,  are  made  to  rest  upon  a  sup- 
posed certainty  that  when  the  common  law  has  taken  its 
course,  the  officers  of  the  guards  will  be  brought  to  a  court- 
martial.  Here  then  we  join  issue  with  Modestus;  and 
though  near  ten  weeks  have  elapsed  since  the  rescue  of 
General  Gansel,  we  are  ready  to  admit  that  it  is  not  yet  too 
late  for  the  minister  to  do  his  duty ;  but  if,  notwithstanding 
the  assurances  given  us  by  ModestuSy  it  should  appear  that 
there  never  was  an  intention  to  bring  these  offenders  to  a 
trial,  how  will  he  answer  it  to  the  public,  that  he  has  dared 
to  take  up  such  a  cause,  and  to  impose  so  many  gross  ilalse- 
hoods  upon  our  credulity  ?  As  a  friend,  I  would  advise  him 
to  look  out  in  time  for  some  plausible  evasion.  The  minis- 
try have  singular  reasons  for  everything  they  do,  and  I  will 
venture  to  foretell  that  the  officers  of  die  guards  will  never 
be  brought  to  a  court-martial,  because  their  offence  is  so 
great  that  they  must  inevitably  be  cashiered. 

X.  X. 


LETTER  LXIX. 


JUNIUS  AS  DOMmAN. 


Sn,  Mareh  5, 1770. 

There  is  a  certain  set  of  men  who,  upon  almost  eveiy  action 
01  their  lives,  are  insulted  with  the  pity  both  of  their  enemies 


J 


JUNIUS  AS  POMITTAK.  S98 

iud  their  friends.  They  seem  to  havo  discovered  the  art  of 
doing  whatever  is  base  and  detestable,  without  forfeiting  their 
claim  to  the  public  compassion.  A  bad  man,  with  resolution 
and  abilities,  is  a  formidable  being.  His  great  qualities  com 
pensate  for  the  absence  of  good  ones,  and,  though  not  entitled 
to  esteem,  secure  him  from  contempt.  The  persons  I  speak 
of  are  not  in  this  predicament :  they  have  nothing  elevated  in 
their  vices.  In  vain  do  they  labour  to  distinguish  themselves 
by  the  violation  of  all  public  duties  and  private  engagements 
They  still  preserve  their  natural  mediocrity  of  character,  and 
have  as  little  chance  of  being  honoured  with  the  detestation 
as  with  the  esteem  of  their  country. 

I  cannot  ipention  the  name  of  Sir  Edward  Hawke  without 
concern.  How  unfortunate  it  is  that  a  heart  unacquainted 
with  fear  should  have  so  little  sense  of  propriety  and  decorum ! 
I  should  be  sorry  to  puzzle  him  with  intricate  questions  either 
of  policy  or  morals,  but  there  are  some  distinctions  within  the 
reach  even  of  his  understanding.  In  his  situation,  it  particu- 
larly became  him  to  regulate  his  conduct  by  the  judgment  of 
the  public.  Though  not  expected  to  think  for  himself,  he 
might  have  taken  a  generous  part  with  the  friends  of  his 
country,,  and  still  have  been  respected  for  the  integrity  of  his 
intentions.  To  what  a  poor  insignificant  condition  has  he 
now  reduced  himself  I  Behold  him,  at  such  a  cor^uncture  as 
the  present,  meanly  keeping  possession  of  an  office  which  he 
owes  to  Lord  Chatham's  friendship,  and  distinguished  as  the 
only  surviving  minister  (of  those  introduced  into  the  cabinet 
by  Lord  Chatham  *)  who  supports  the  present  administration. 
What  opinion  can  he  deliver  in  the  House  of  Commons? 
What  measures  can  he  maintain  in  the  cabinet  ?  Instead  of 
the  dignity  of  thundering  out  secrets  of  state  from  the  gallery, 
we  see  the  First  Lord  of  the  Admiralty  skulking  into  the  House, 

i'ust  before  a  division,  as  if  he  thought  that  everybody  had 
leard  the  peremptory  message  sent  him  by  Mr.  Bradshaw. 

As  to  his  opinions  in  council,  he  must  either  adopt  a  new 
Bet  of  ideas,  or,  if  he  presumes  to  differ  from  his  colleagues, 
must  silently  submit  to  be  overruled.  On  these  terms  ho 
may  be  permitted  to  keep  an  employment  which,  since  he 

*  See  note  to  Junios,  Letter  No.  23,  vol  I  p.  210. 


294r  MISGELIAKEOUS  LETTERS   ASOBIBED   TO  JUNIUS. 

sold  his  stock  in  the  beginning  of  the  winter,  produces 
nothing  in  addition  to  the  salary  but  the  means  of  providing 
for  his  friends.  The  choice  of  Commodore  Hill  and  Admiral 
Geary  proves  that  he  can  discover  latent  merit  in  the  most 
unpromising  subjects.  By  this  disposition  of  the  command 
'  at  Chatham  and  Portsmouth,  he  seems  to  aim  at  encouraging 
future  services,  rather  than  in  rewarding  the  past ;  and  as  t« 
his  economy,  was  it  possible  to  give  a  better  proof  of  it  than 
by  turning  adrift  a  multitude  of  poor  artificers  to  idleness  and 
beggary,  on  purpose  to  make  up  four  pounds  a  day  for  the  use 
of  Mr.  Geary  ? 

Admiral  Holbume  s  services  in  America  have  also  been 
very  properly  considered.  When  so  many  Englishmen  vacate 
their  places,  it  would  be  strange  indeed  if  a  Scot  of  such  dis- 
tinguished merit  had  been  left  unprovided  for.  Sir  Percy 
Brett  resigns,  Mr.  Holbume  succeeds  him,  and  Sir  Edward 
Hawke  is  still  first  lord  of  the  admiralty!  Proceed,  Sir 
Edward,  in  this  honourable  line.  Be  a  spendthrift  of  your 
good  name.  We  shall  not  quarrel  with  your  prodigality,  for 
you  have  a  right  to  waste  the  reputation  you  had  acquired. 
You  once  contributed  largely  to  save  this  country,  and  have  a 
creditor's  claim  to  contribute  to  its  destruction. 

The  indigent  circumstances  of  Lord  Hertford's  family 
account  for  and  justify  their  conduct.  The  same  spirit  of 
economy  which  animated  the  father  to  the  sale  of  public  em* 
ployments  in  Ireland,  revives  in  the  son,  and  finds  the  best 
market  for  the  ammunition  of  the  Warwickshire  militia*. 
Lord  Hertford,  General  Conway,  and  Lord  Beauchamp  are  the 
very  quintessence  of  courtesy  and  candour.  Undecided  in 
their  opinions,  disengaged  from  all  attachments,  they  support 
no  measures  without  leaving  room  for  explanation,  and  can 
reconcile  the  coldest  indifference  about  the  interests  of  others 
with  the  warmest  anxiety  for  their  own.  It  is  unluckily  tbo 
fate  of  these  moderate  candid  persons  to  be  despised  by  all 
parties.  In  vain  does  the  gentle  Beauchamp  give  the  treasury 
bench  the  negative  assistance  of  his  oratory;  in  vain  does 
his  honest  father  beg  an  audience  for  personal  solicitation  in 

*  This  youth  goes  by  the  name  of  Gunpowder  Beauchamp  through  tiM 
i^hole  couatj. 


JUNIOS  AS   DOMniAN.  295 

tlip  doset.  G  eneral  Howard  and  the  secretary  at  .war  have 
Btiil  spirit  to  resist  *.  The  promotion  goes  in  the  regiment, 
and  the  military  achievements  of  the  younger  Conway  are  left 
for  future  consideration.  Poor  Lord  Hertford !  what  is  this 
but  a  continuation  of  the  Duke  of  Grafton's  tyranny  ?  From 
one  minister  we  see  him  regularly  kicked  down  to  another. 
His  nephew  treats  him  like  a  footman,  and  Lord  North,  with 
still  greater  severity,  yokes  him  with  General  GrsBmef. 

My  sincere  compassion  for  Lord  Cornwallis  arises  not  so 
much  from  his  quality  as  from  his  time  of  life.     A  young 
man  by  a  spirited  conduct  may  atone  for  the  deficiencies  of 
his  understanding.      Where  was  the  memory  of  this  noble 
Lord,  or  what  kind  of  intellects  must  he  possess,  when  he 
resigns  his  place,  yet  continues  in  the  support  of  admiuistra- 
tion,  and,  to  show  his  independence,  makes  a  parade  of  at- 
tending Lord  North's  levee,  and  pays  a  public  homage  to  the 
deputy  of  Lord  Bute!     Where  is  now  his  attachment;  where 
are  now  his  professions  to  Lord  Chatham ;  his  zeal  for  the 
Whig  interest  of  England ;  and  his  detestation  of  Lord  Bute, 
the  Bedfords,  and  the  Tories  ?    Since  the  time  at  which  these 
were  the  only  topics  of  his  conversation,  I  presume  he  has 
shifted  his  company  as  well  as  his  opinions.     Will  he  tell  the 
world  to  which  of  his  uncles,  or  to  what  friend,  to  Philipson, 
or  a  Tory  lord,  he  owes  the  advice  which  has  directed  his 
conduct?     I  will  not  press  him  further.     The  young  man  has 
taken  a  mse  resolution  at  last,  for  he  is  retiring  into  a  volun- 
tary banishment,  in  hopes  of  recovering  the  ruin  of  his  repu- 
tation.    These  loose  sketches  are  sufficient  to  mark  to  you 
the  kind  of  character  which,  with  every  quality  that  ought 
to  make  it  odious,  still  continues  pitiful,  and  is  never  import- 
aut  enough  in  mischief  to  excite  indignation.     I  would  not 
waste  a  thought  in  contriving  the  punishment  or  correction 
of  such  men ;  but  it  may  be  useful  to  the  public  to  see  by  what 
sort  of  creatures  the  present  administration  is  supported.     It 
is  unnecessary  to  enlarge  the  catalogue.     Without  name  or 
description,  they  are  distinguished  by  a  certain  consciousness 

*  Lord  Hertford  not  long  ago  had  the  modesty  to  desire  that  his  son,  a 
yonth  of  twenty  years  old,  might  be  put  over  the  heads  of  all  G^eneral 
Howard's  officers. 

i*  Lord  Hertford  and  this  worthy  Scotchman  are  spies  in  ordinary  to  ths 
OBiacster  for  the  time  being. 


1 


296  MISCELLANEOUS  LETTERS  ASCBIBED   TO  JTJKIUa 

of  shame  which  accompaDies  their  actions.  After  deserting 
one  partj>  thej  dare  not  engage  heartily  with  the  other ;  and 
having  renounced  their  first  sentiments  and  connections,  are 
forced  to  proceed  in  the  humble  track  of  voting  as  they  arr 
ordered,  without  party,  principle,  or  friends. 

BOMITIAN*. 


LETTER  LXX. 

TO  THE  PBINTBB  OF  TIfB  PUBLIC  ADVEBTISEB. 

Sib,  March  10, 1770. 

No  man  is  more  warmly  attached  to  the  best  of  princes  than 
I  am.  I  reverence  his  personal  virtues  as  much  as  I  respect 
his  understanding,  and  am  happy  to  find  myself  under  the 
government  of  a  prince  whose  temper  and  abilities  do  equal 
honour  to  his  character.  At  the  same  time,  I  confess  I  did 
not  hear  without  astonishment  of  the  answer  which  some 
evil-minded  counsellors  advised  him  to  return  to  the  sherifife 
of  the  city  of  London  f     For  a  king  of  Great  Britain  to  take 

*  The  letters  under  this  signature  are  recognised  by  Junius  in  his  Private 
Letter,  No.  56. 

f  The  following  are  the  particulars  of  the  dispute  which  occurred  in  pre- 
senting the  petition  of  March  6, 1770 : — 

On  Wednesday,  the  7th,  the  Sheriffii  attended  at  St.  James's,  to  know  his 
Majesty's  pleasure,  when  he  would  be  waited  on  with  the  city  address, 
remonstrance,  and  petition ;  they  were  detained  till  20  minutes  past  2,  when, 
the  leTee  being  over,  they,  with  the  remembrancer,  were  admitted  into  the 
closet,  when  Mr.  Sheriff  Townshend  addressed  himself  to  his  Majesty  in  the 
following  words : — 

"  May  if  please  yonr  Majesty , 
"  By  order  of  the  lord  mayor,  aldermen,  and  lirery  of  the  City  of  L^mdon, 
in  common-hall  assembled,  we  have  taken  the  earliest  opportuni^^  as  was 
our  duty,  to  wait  upon  your  Majesty;  but,  being  prevented  from  having 
immediate  access  to  your  Majesty  by  one  of  your  household,  who  informed 
us  that  it  was  your  Majesty's  pleasure  to  receive  us  this  day  after  the  levee, 
we  wait  on  you*  Majesty,  humbly  to  know  when  your  Majesty  will  pli 
to  be  attended  with  an  humble  address,  remonstrance,  and  petition." 

To  which  his  Majesty  was  pleased  to  return  the  following  answer : — 

*'  As  the  case  is  entirely  new,  I  will  take  time  to  oeosider  of  it,  and 
mit  you  an  answer  by  one  of  my  principal  Secretaries  of  State." 

On  Thursday  eveniog  the  Sherifb  received  the  IbUowing  letter  bcm  hoH 
Wcvmouth  *.— 


MODERATUS  ON  1HE  CITT  BEMOKSTBANCE.  297 

time  to  consider  whether  he  will  or  will  not  receive  a  peti- 
tion from  his  subjects,  seems  to  me  to  amount  to  this,  that 

"  Gehtlbmbit,  "  SL  James's,  March  8, 1770. 

''  The  King  commands  me  to  inform  you,  in  consequence  of  the  message 
which  you  brought  yesterday  to  St.  James's,  that  he  is  always  ready  to 
receive  applications  from  any  of  his  subjects;  but  as  the  present  case  of 
address,  remonstrance,  and  petition,  seems  entirely  new,  I  am  commanded  to 
enquire  of  you  in  what  manner  it  is  authenticated,  and  what  the  nature  of 
the  assembly  was  in  which  this  measure  was  adopted  1  When  you  furnish 
me  with  answers  to  these  questions  I  shall  signify  to  you  his  Majesty's 
further  pleasure. 

''  I  am,  Gfentlemen, 
**  Your  most  obedient  humble  Servant, 
"  Sheriflfs  of  London.  "  Weymouth." 

Oii  the  next  day  the  Sherifis  went  to  St  James's,  and,  after  waiting  some 
time,  Lord  Bolingbroke  came  out,  and  inquired  whether  he  was  to  tell  his 
Majesty  that  they  came  with  a  fresh  message,  or  with  a  message  1  The 
Sheriffs  answered,  with  a  message.  Soon  after,  the  two  Secretaries  of  State, 
Lord  Bochford  and  Lord  Weymouth,  came  to  the  Sherifis.  Lord  Weymouth 
asked  them,  **  whether  they  had  received  his  letter,  which  was  written  by 
his  Majesty's  order  1" 

Sheriffs.  "  We  have." 

Lord  Weymouth,  "  His  Majesty  desires  to  know  whether  you  come 
in  consequence  of  that  letter,  or  whether  you  come  on  any  fresh  business  V 

Sheriffs.  "  We  come  in  consequence  of  that  letter." 

Lord  Weymouih.  "  Would  it  not  be  more  proper  to  send  an  answer  in 
writing  through  me  V* 

Sheriffs,  **  We  act  ministerially.  As  Sheriffs  of  London  we  have  a  ri^ht 
to  an  audience,  and  cannot  communicate  to  any  other  person  than  the  Emg 
the  subject  of  our  message." 

Lord  WeiftnotUh.  "  I  do  not  dispute  your  right  to  an  audience ;  but 
would  it  not  be  better  and  more  accurate  to  give  your  message  to  me  in 
writing?' 

Sheriffs,  **  We  know  the  value  and  consequence  of  the  citizens'  right 
to  apply  immediately  to  the  King,  and  not  to  a  third  person ;  and  we  do 
not  mean  that  any  of  their  rights  and  privileges  shall  be  betrayed  by  our 
means." 

Lord  Weymotith  then  said,  "  His  Majesty,  understanding  that  yon  come 
ministerially  authorized  with  a  message  from  the  City  of  London,  will  see 
you  as  soon  as  the  levee  is  over;"  and  being  introduced  accordingly,  Mr. 
Sheriff  Townshend  addressed  his  Majesty  in  these  words : — 

**  May  it  please  your  Ma^tsty, 
"  When  we  had  last  the  honour  to  appear  before  your  Majesty,  youi 
Majesty  was  graciously  pleased  to  promise  an  answer  by  one  of  your 
Majesty's  principal  Secretaries  of  State ;  but  we  had  yesterday  questions 
proposed  to  us  by  Lord  Weymouth.  In  answer  to  which  we  beg  leave 
numbly  to  inform  your  Majesty,  that  the  application  which  we  make  xojom 
Majesty  we  make  as  SherijBs  A  the  City  dc  London,  by  the  direction  of  thi 


S08  MISCELLANEOUS  LETTERS  A8CB1BED  TO  JUNIUS. 

he  will  take  time  to  consider  whether  he  will  or  will  not  ad- 
here to  the  fourth  article  of  the  Declaratioa  of  Rights.  One 
would  think  that  this  could  never  have  been  a  question  in 
the  mind  of  so  gracious  a  prince,  if  there  were  not  some  very 
dangerous  advice  given  in  the  closet.  I  now  hear  that  it  has 
been  signified  to  the  sheriffs  that  his  Majesty  cannot  receive 
the  petition  until  he  is  informed  of  the  nature  of  the  assem- 
bly in  which  it  was  composed.  A  king  indeed  is  not  obliged 
to  understand  the  political  forms  and  constitution  of  every 
corporation  in  his  dominions,  but  his  ministers  must  be  un- 
commonly ignorant  who  could  not  save  him  the  embarrass- 
ment of  asking  such  a  question  concemiiig  the  first  body 
corporate  perhaps  in  the  world.  The  sheriflfe,  I  presume, 
will  hardly  venture  to  satisfy  so  unusual  an  inquiry  upon  their 
own  bare  authority.  They  will  naturally  move  the  Lord 
Mayor  to  summon  another  Common  Hall  to  answer  for 
themselves  ;  and  then  I  doubt  not  the  corpomtion  of  the  city 
of  London  will  fully  explain,  to  those  whom  it  may  concern, 
who  they  are,  and  what  is  the  nature  of  their  assembly.  After 
all,  Sir,  I  do  not  apprehend  that  the  propriety  of  the  King  s 
receiving  a  petition  from  any  of  his  subjects  depends  in  the 
least  upon  tJieir  quality  or  situation.  He  is  bound  by  the 
declaration  and  subsequent  Bill  of  Eights  to  receive  all 
petitions  from   his  subjects.     What  notice   or  answer  the 

liverj  in  comraon-hall  legally  assembled.  The  address,  remonstrance,  and 
petition,  to  be  presented  to  your  Majesty  by  their  chief  magistrate,  is  the 
act  of  the  citizens  of  London  in  their  greatest  court;  and  is  ordered  by  them 
to  be  properly  authenticated  as  their  act'.*' 

To  which  his  Majesty  replied  as  follows  : — 

"  I  will  consider  of  the  answer  you  have  given  me." 

Whereupon  the  Sheriffs  withdrew. 

'    On  the  Monday  following,  the  Sheriffs  received  the  subjoined  letter. 

"  Gentlemen,  "  SL  James's,  March  12,  1770. 

"  The  King  has  commanded  me  to  signify  to  you  his  Majesty's  pleasure 
that  he  will  receive  on  Wednesday  next,  at  2  o'clock  in  the  afternoon,  the 
address,  remonstrance,  and  petition,  which  you  have  informed  his  Majes^  is 
to  be  presented  by  the  chief  magistrate  of  the  city  of  London. 

"  I  am,  Gentlemen, 
''  Tour  most  obedient  humble  Servant, 
*'  Sheriffs  of  London.  "  Wbtmouth." 

For  further  particulars  of  this  contest  between  the  Court  and  the  City, 
JuDius's  Letter,  No.  S7,  and  note  vol  i.  p.  299. 


SALE   OF  P3AU£g.  399 

contents  of  them  may  deserve,  must  be  considered  after- 
wards. To  refuse  the  petition  itself  is  against  law.  I  am 
persuaded,  however,  that  nothing  can  be  further  from  the 
intention  of  our  gracious  Sovereign  than  to  offer  a  gross 
affront  to  the  whole  city  of  London.  It  is  evident  that  the 
ministry  either  mean  to  gain  time  for  carrying  some  poo** 
counter-measure  by  means  of  the  wretched  dependants  of  tht 
court,  or  to  intimidate  the  city  magisti-ates,  and  deter  them 
from  doing  their  duty.  I  think  it  therefore  absolutely  neces- 
sary for  us  to  rouse  in  defence  of  the  honour:  of  the  city,  and 
demonstrate  to  the  ministry,  by  the  spirit  and  vigour  of  our 
proceedings,  that  we  are  not  what  they  are  pleased  to  repre- 
sent us,  the  scum  of  the  earth,  and  the  vilest  and  basest 
of  mankind. 

MODERATUS*. 


LETTER  LXXI. 

TO   THE   PRINTER   OF  THE    PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 

SiE,  June  26, 1770. 

That  we  may  be  quietly  governed  is  a  very  proper  petition 
in  the  service  of  the  Church  of  England.  If  the  worst  men 
should  be  put  in  authority  imder  the  King,  they  will  think  it 
politic  to  counteract  the  prayers  of  the  people,  and  indi£fer- 
ently  minister  injustice,  to  the  punishment  of  virtue  and  the 
maintenance  of  vice.  The  Duke  of  Grafton  has  devoted 
himself  to  these  principles  with  all  the  fervour  of  an  en- 
thusiast, nor  can  we  avoid  lamenting  that  so  inflexible  a 
bigot  should  still  have  failed  of  martyrdom.  His  Grace  has 
triumphed  over  the  last  m'oments  of  his  power,  nor  permitted 
its  extinction  till  he  had  dismissed  the  Chancellor  f,  and  pro- 
cured a  pension,  inadequate,  indeed,  to  former  merits,  for  the 
truly  honest  Mr.  BradshawJ.  The  first  occurrence  has  been 
sufficiently  canvassed;  the  propriety  with  which  his  Grace 

*  Letter  81  (vol.  i.  p.  2i5),  which,  in  the  first  Woodfall  edition,  is  signed 
PhUo-Junius,  had,  when  it  originally  appeared  in  the  Public  Advertiser,  the 
•ignature  of  Moderatus  affixed  to  it. 

t  The  dismissed  Chancellor  was  Lord  Camden. 

:^  Mr.  Bradshaw,  aa  often  observed  before,  was  the  Duke  ti  Gtafloa's 


300  MISJELLAKEOOS   LETTERS  ASCRIBED   TO  JUNIUS. 

has  effected  the  second  occurreice,  cannot  possibly  be  feh 
through  all  its  force  till  the  deserving  object  of  ministerial 
gratitude  has  spoken  for  himself. 

Come  forward,  Mr.  Bradshaw,  thou  worthy  but  much 
injured  man,  at  once  convince,  and  undeceive  the  public. 
Tell  them,  that  if  a  person  should  exist  who  dares  even  to 
insinuate  that  tho  following  relation  is  founded  upon  stub 
bom  facts  he  is  a  grosd  defamer  of  unbiassed  honour,  and 
would  extend  that  rancorous  abuse,  which  hitherto  has  preyed 
upon  the  fairest  and  most  courtly  characters,  till  it  asperse 
your  own. 

Mrs.  AUenby  entered  into  an  engagement  with  Miss  Brad- 
shaw  in  behalf  of  Mr.  Allenby,  her  husband.  It  was  stipu- 
lated that  she  should  give  into  Miss  Bradshaw*s  hands  the 
sum  of  six  hundred  pounds,  which  was  to  have  been  the 
purchase-money  of  the  place  of  surveyor  of  the  pines  in 
America.  An  application  was  soon  afterwards  made  for  the 
same  place  by  Captain  P *,  who  promised  that  on  re- 
ceiving it  he  would  pay  down  the  sum  of  eight  hundred 
pounds.  In  consequence  of  this  promise,  the  name  of  Mr. 
Allenby,  already  inserted  in  the  list  of  intended  promotions, 
was  erased,  and  the  blank  filled  up  with  the  name  of  Cap- 
tain P ,  to  which  was  added  a  written  assertion  that  his 

appointment  was  owing  to  Mr.  Allenby*s  having  chosen  to 
decline  going.  When  this  affietir  was  examined  at  the  board 
of  treasury,  Mrs.  Allenby  was  asked  where  her  husband  was 
during  this  transaction.  She  answered,  "In  Cumberland, 
assisting  in  the  support  of  the  Portland  interest,  when  Mr. 
Bobinson  and  Mr.  Jenkinson  were  doing  what  mischief  they 
could  to  oblige  Sir  James  Lowther.** 

The  latter  part  of  Mrs.  Allenby's  declaration  occasioned 
some  Uttle  entertainment.  She  was  ignorant  that  the  two 
intimate  friends  of  the  Earl  of  Bute,  whose  characters  she 
was  then  drawing,  were  actually  present.  Mr.  Bradshaw 
pleaded  in  excuse  that  his  sister,  a  milliner  near  Moorfields, 
was  solely  concerned  in  this  business.  When  Mr.  Cooper 
mentioned  to  Mr.  Bradshaw  an  intention  of  lodging  a  com- 
plaint against  him,  he  burst  into  tears.  They  could  not  have 
been  tears  of  penitence,  or  they  imply  preceding  guilt 

Who  the  person  here  alluded  to  is  cannot  be  ascertainedU 


ELECTION  OF  COLONEL  LUITBELL.  301 

When  Mr.  Bradsbaw  shall  have  exculpated  his  conduct, 
which  cannot  be  arraigned  without  injustice,  he  may  perhaps 
become  a  conspicuous  instance  of  the  prevalence  of  example. 
The  voice  of  injured  innocence  may  sound  within  a  neigh- 
bouring quarter;  and,  as  the  ostensible  premier  may  be 
questioned  on  a  similar  occasion,  his  Lordship  will  have  an 
opportunity  to  revive  this  long-forgotten  truth.  However  con- 
temptibly the  world  may  judge  of  ministers  of  state,  they  are 
uot  conscious  to  themselves  of  any  guilt. 

Q  IN  THB  COBNBB.* 


LETTER  LXXII. 

TO   THE   PBINTEB  OF  THE  PUBLIC   ADVEBTISEB. 

Sib,  June  27, 1770. 

YouB  correspondent,  A  Fellow -Labourer  in  the  public  Cause^f 
has  a  claim ,  to  our  attention,  rather  from  the  liberality  and 
candour  with  which  he  has  stated  his  ideas  than  from  the 
force  of  argument  with  which  he  has  supported  them.  He 
seems  to  have  forgotten  that  the  national  resentment  has  not 
been  so  much  excited  by  the  exclusion  of  Mr.  Wilkes  as  by 
the  insertion  of  Mr.  Luttrell.  He  does  not  seem  to  be  aware 
that  the  discussion  of  the  great  question  can  never  be  brought 
on  in  a  new  mode  as  long  as  Mr.  Wilkes  is  to  be  the  ground- 
work of  the  debate;  that  the  arguments  for  incapacitation 
Df  that  gentleman  were  merely  personal ;  that  they  respected 
the  member  returned,  without  any  reference  to  the  consti- 
tuents ;  and,  therefore,  that  the  substitution  of  other  consti- 
tuents can  effect  no  alteration  in  the  case  whilst  the  person 
returned  continued  the  same. 

*  This,  with  subseqaent  letters  under  the  same  signature,  bear  marks  of  the 
point,  sarcasm,  and  political  antipathies  of  Junius,  and  were  probably  among 
nit  less  elaborate  compositions  in  his  rural  retreat,  or  excursions  in  the  summer 
season.  From  Maj  to  August  he  appears  this  year  to  have  been  silent  in 
the  Public  Advertiser  under  his  more  formidable  name,  and  may  have 
thought  to  amuse  himself  by  waging  a  minor  warfiire  as  Q  in  the  Corner, 
and  thus  keep  both  himself  and  the  public  on  the  alert  against  their 
eommon  enemy. — Bd. 

f  A  letter  under  the  nbove  signature  appeared  on  the  preceding  day, 
riHrommending  Mr.  Wilkes  to  stand  forward  as  a  candidate  for  the  city  ol 
Itomdxm  on  the  death  of  Alderman  Beckford. 


302  MISCELLANEOUS   LETTEIla    ASCRIBED    TO  JCNITIS. 

* 

Your  correspondent  would  likewise  have  done  well  to  ha?c 
borae  in  mind  that  the  livery  of  London  have,  hj  the  most 
authentic  act  of  the  corporation,  declared  to  the  world  that 
the  intrusion  of  Mr.  Luttrell  has  vitiated  the  present  parlia- 
ment*.    With  what  consistency  then  can  the  same  body  of 

*  In  Buch  popular  detestation  was  the  condact  of  ths  ministry  and  parlia- 
ment held,  with  respect  to  their  proceedings  in  the  Middlesex  election,  that 
Mr.  Aldermnn  Townshend  went  so  fiir  as  to  try  the  Irgality  of  the  Aet  of 
Parliament  for  raining  the  land-tax,  the  Alderman  having  refused  to  pay  it 
on  the  pretence  that  the  intrusion  of  Mr.  Luttrell  had  vitiated  the  parliament, 
and  negatived  its  power. 

The  trial  took  place  June  9,  1772,  nnd  the  following  account  of  it  is 
extracted  from  the  Pvllic  AdveHiser  of  the  ensuing  day : — 

"  Yesterday  came  on  in  the  Court  of  King's  Bench  the  long-expected  causa 
between  Mr.  Alderman  Townshend  and  the  collector  of  the  land-tax.  Lord 
Mansfield  had  appointed  the  trial  for  9  o'clock  precisely  ;  but  he  delayed  it 
till  near  11,  waiting  for  the  Attorney-General,  who  did  not  attend.  The 
cause  was  opened  by  Mr.  Davenport ;  after  which  Mr.  Sergeant  Glynn  ad- 
dressed the  jury,  and  informed  them  that  in  common  cases  it  was  the  custom  to 
content  themselves  with  proving  the  trespass,  iind  then  leave  the  justification 
of  it  to  the  defendant ;  but  he  said  the  present  case  required  a  further  dis- 
cussion from  him  ;  that  it  was  an  important  constitutional  point  upon  which 
the  valuable  rights  of  the  whole  nation  depended.  He  said  he  was  directed 
by  his  client,  Mr.  Townshend,  to  conduct  the  cause  as  its  importance 
demanded  ;  that  therefore  he  should  waive  all  the  informalities  in  the  col- 
lector's proceedings ;  he  would  admit  him  likewise  to  be  collector,  and  that 
he  was  authorized  by  the  commissioners ;  that  the  single  ground  of  his 
pleading  would  be  that  the  commissioners  themselves  were  not  authorised : 
ibr  that  a  House  of  Commons,  legally  chosen  by  the  people,  are  alone 
empowered  to  levy  taxes  in  this  country ;  and  he  said  he  insisted,  and 
would  prove  by  evidence,  that  the  persons  who  passed  the  Act  of  Parilament 
(under  which  the  collector  had  seized  Mr.  Townshend's  hay)  were  improperly 
called  a  House  of  Commons,  because  they  were  illegally  and  defectively 
constituted.  He  said  that  to  the  making  of  all  laws,  and  the  levying  of  all 
taxes,  it  was  formerly  necessary  that  every  freeholder  should  assent  indi- 
vidually ;  and  especially  before  a  tax  was  to  be  levied,  the  constituents 
formerly  were  first  referred  to,  because  they  were  to  consent  to  what  they 
were  to  pay.  Custom  and  usage  .(he  said)  had  now  made  it  common  for  the 
representatives  in  parliament  to  speak  for  the  people,  and  this  was  considered 
the  same  as  the  consent  of  the  people,  b:-cause  they  were  freely  chosen  by 
the  people  for  that  purpose;  and  after  every  election  a  formal  letter  of 
attorney  (the  indenture)  is  always  given  by  the  electors  to  the  person  they 
have  chosen.  He  said  that  this  implied  consent  of  the  people  by  then 
representatives  depended  entirely  on  their  having  the  free  choice  of  their 
representatives ;  for  if  their  freedom  of  choice  was  inviaded,  the  reference  and 
implication  were  destroyed,  and  the  people  would  no  longer  have  any  the 
least  consent  in  the  making  of  laws  or  levying  of  taxes ;  but  that  their  lives 
and  their  property  would  be  absolutely  at  the  mercy  of  any  set  of  men  who 


ELECTION  OF  OOLONKL  LUTTRELL.         3d3 

men  subscribe  to  the  integrity  of  the  same  parliament  upon 
any  other  terms  than  the  previous  extermination  of  the  con- 
taminating object?    The  introduction  of  Mr  Wilkes  into  the 

should  call  themselves  a  parliament,  corrupted  by  the  reremie,  and  sap 
ported  by  the  trqops  of  a  weak  or  a  wicked  tyrant.  He  said  that  this^  as 
&r  at  least  as  it  related  to  representation,  was  the  case  with  the  present 
persons  who  call  themselves  a  House ;  for  which,  he  said,  as  they  were  not 
chosen,  so  neither  are  they  acknowledged  by  the  people  :  the  county  of 
Middlesex,  he  said,  was  not  represented ;  that  one  of  the  members  legal!} 
choaen  by  the  county  had  been  forcibly  and  illegally  excluded,  and  another 
person  as  illegally  and  forcibly  substituted  in  his  room.  Mr.  Glynn  then 
gave  a  very  striking  account  of  the  absurdity  and  impudence  of  Mr:  Luttrell*s 

pretensions,  and  of  the  infamy  of  our  ,  and  his  abettors  and  accomplices. 

He  said,  the  present  pretendi^d  House  of  Commons  had  superseded  the 
election  of  the  county  by  an  unwarrantable  resolution  of -their  own ;  and 
had,  by  so  doing,  seized  into  their  own  hands,  and  for  th«»ir  own  use  and 
emolument,  the  birthright  of  all  the  people  of  England.  H«  proved  in  the 
clearest  manner  that  the  pretence  of  Mr.  Wilkes*s  incapacity  iloes  not  exist  in 
the  law;  and  that  the  people's  right  of  representation  is  le  han  a  name  if 
the  House  of  Commons  has  an  indefinite  power  of  expulsion.  Mr.  GFlync 
said  he  would  produce  unquestionable  evidence  to  the  points  on  which  he. 
had  rested  the  merits  of  his  cause;  notwithstanding  that  he  thought  it 
unnecessary,  because  the  facts  were  so  notorious,  and  so  well  kn^wn  to  the 
jury  themselves,  that  they  could  of  their  own  knowledge^  ig[reeably  to  the 
laws  of  the  land,  give  a  verdict  for  the  plaintiff  even  without  any  evidence- 

"As  soon  as  Mr.  Glynn  had  finished  his  speech,  and  was  directing  thr 
evidence  to  be  called,  Mr.  Wallace  (the  King's  counsellor)  produced  a  printed 
paper,  which  he  said  was  the  Act  of  Parliament  by  which  the  collector  levied 
the  tax.  As  for  the  objection  that  had  been  made  by  Mr.  Glynn  relative  to 
the  seat  of  one  of  the  members,  or  of  the  legality  of  the  parliament,  he  said 
the  courts  of  Westminster  Hall  had  no  power  to  determine. 

"  Lord  Mansfield  then  rose  and  said,  that  he  perceived  Mr.  Glynn  wanted 
that  court  to  retry  the  judgment  of  the  House  of  Commons  touching  the  case 
of  the  Middlesex  election ;  that  is,  said  his  Lordship,  he  wants  to  prove  that 
the  l^iislatnre  is  dissolved  ;  and,  that  all  the  Acts  of  Parliament  made  sinco 
the  year  1769  are  void.  The  evidence  which  Mr.  Glynn  wants  to  produce 
is  not  by  law  admissible,  and  I  will  not  suf&r  it  to  be  given.  '  Gentlemen 
of  the  jury,  you  will  find  for  the  defendant.'  The  clerk  then  hurried  ovei 
the  form,  and  said,  *  Gentlemen  of  the  jury,  hearken  to  your  verdict,  &c 
You  find  for  the  defendant,  and  so  you  say  all.'  Whereupon,  one  of  the 
jury,  Mr.  Long,  said  he  did  not  consent  to  that  verdict.  This  dissent  caused 
some  embarrassment  to  Lord  Mansfield,  which  he  soon  got  over  by  saying, 
'  Gentlemen,  you  are  sworn  to  give  a  verdict  according  to  the  evidence ;  now 
no  evidence  hat  been  prodiuxd  to  you  against  the  defendant ;  therefore  yon 
aiust  find  for  him.  You  cannot  try  fietcts  by  notoriety ,  that  is  not  law,  jos 
must  go  by  evidence,  and  you  have  heard  no  evidence ;  you  must  find  for  ths 
defendant.' " 

The  jury  iuxorauigly  acquitted  the  defendant. 


^04         KI8CBLLANR0US  TJITTEfiS  ASCIUBBD  TO  JUNIUS. 

House  is  in  itGielf  a  circumstance  of  little  importance.  L 
parliament  and  the  county  of  Middlesex  had  gone  on  in  an 
eternal  circulation  of  expulsions  and  returns,  the  essence  of 
that  assembly  would  not  have  been  affected.  The  indispen- 
sable point  is  that  the  corrupt  member  should  be  lopped  off; 
a  point  that  will  hardly  be  compassed  by  an  event  of  such 
indifference  to  the  public  as  the  mere  seating  Mr.  Wilkes 
in  the  House  of  Commons  a  representative  of  the  city  of 
London. 

Upon  the  plan  of  your  correspondent,  the  prosecutors,  in- 
deecC  will  be  changed,  but  the  cause  will  still  be  the  same. 
It  is  in  the  power  of  administration  alone  to  vary  and  extend 
the  cause,  by  arbitrarily  incapacitating  another  member  legally 
elected ;  a  measure  which  they  do  in  truth  "  tremble  at  the 
thoughts  of." 

In  conclusion :  the  restoration  of  parliament  must  begin  in 
the  person  of  Mr.  Luttrell ;  nor  can  the  injury  to  the  people 
of  England  be  heightened  in  the  person  of  Mr.  Wilkea. 
Every  county,  every  borough,  is  already  as  essentially  affected 
as  the  county  of  Middlesex.  It  is  an  eternal  truth  in  the 
political  as  well  as  the  mystical  body,  that  *'  where  oiie  mem- 
ber suffers  all  the  members  suffer  with  it." 

I  am, 
A  LABOUBBB  IN  THB  SAMB  OAUSK 


LETTER  LXXIIl. 


BEPLT  TO  Q  IN  THE   OOBNER. 


SiK,  Southampton  Street,  Bloomsbnry,  June  27, 1770L 

HiYiKa,  to  my  great  surprise,  seen  in  a  letter  published  in 
your  paper  of  yesterday,  signed  Q  in  the  Comer,  the  following 
paragraph,  "  When  Mr.  Cooper  mentioned  to  Mr.  Bradshaw 
an  intention  of  lodging  a  complaint  against  him,  he  burst 
into  tears,"  I  think  myself  bound  in  honour  and  in  justice 
to  declare,  that  the  whole  of  this  assertion  is  false  and  gpround 
less :  I  never  mentioned  to  Mr.  Bradshaw  any  intention  d 
lodging  a  complaint  against  him ;  I  never  heard  of  any  suck 


BEJOINDEB  OF  Q  IK  THE   CORMBUV.  90^5 

intention ;  and  I  do  not  know  of  any  circumatanoe  whatsoever 
that  can  justify  the  least  imputation  on  Mr.  Bradshaw  of  the 
nature  intended  to  be  couvejed  by  the  said  letter. 

I  am,  Sir, 

Your  humble  servant, 

GREY  COOPEB. 


LETTER  LXXIV, 

TO  THE  PRINTEB  OF  THE  PUBUO  ADYKBTISEB 

Sib,  June  80,  17T0. 

I  BEGEiYED  the  cuTcumstance  of  Mr.  Bradshaw's  having  burst 
into  tears  from  an  authority  which  I  thought  at  least  equal  to 
Mr.  Cooper's,  and  therefore  I  believed  and  asserted  it.  I 
now  perceive  that  I  was  mistaken,  do  willingly  give  up  so 
capital  a  point  in  Mr.  Bradshaw's  case,  and  join  with  his 
honourable  friend  in  declaring  that  he  has  not  wept  at  all 
about  the  matter. 

I  have  a  high  opinion  of  Mr.  Cooper's  integrity,  but  a  much 
higher  of  Mr.  Bradshaw's.  I  find  the  fair  image  of  truth  in 
the  first,  in  the  last  I  expeot  to  meet  an  oracle.  Why  wil] 
not  Mr.  Bradshaw  be  so  obliging  as  to  step  forward,  and  de- 
clare upon  his  honaur^  that  ke  ''  does  not  know  of  any  eireum- 
stance  whatsoever  that  can  justify  the  least  imputation  on 
him  of  the  nature  which  seems  to  Mr.  Cooper  to  have  been 
conveyed  by  a  letter  in  this  paper?  " 

I  allow  Mr.  Cooper's  evidenee,  as  far  as  it  relates  to^the 
falling  of  some  few  tears,  to  be  entirely  decisive ;  but  I  am 
not  so  courtly  as  to  infer  fix)m  Mr.  Cooper's  absolute  ignorance 
of  the  subject  an  equal  one  in  Mr.  Bradshaw.  It  is  from  Mr. 
Bradshaw,  who  must  know  something  more  of  the  matter 
than  Mr.  Cooper,  that  I  expect  to  be  told,  that  no  board  was 
ever  held  at  which  this  particular  subject  was  introduced,  and 
that  Mrs.  Allenhy  was  not  at  that  time  present. 

May  I  presume  humbly  to  inquire  of  Mr.  Bradshaw  if  Mr 
Dyson  did  not  at  that  time  examine  Mrs.  Allenhy ;  if  he  did 
not  attempt  to  browbeat  her;  and  if  a  noble  Lord  had  not  the 
numanity  to  interfere  ? 

After  al],  it  may  be  worth  remarking,  that  Mr  Cooper't 

TOL.  XL  S 


306  MISCELLANEOUS   LETTERS   ASCRIBED   TO  JUKIUS. 

testimony  seems  to  relate  only  to  his  own  intentions  with  m 
spect  to  lodging  a  complaint,  and  his  own  ideas  of  the  impu- 
tations that  should  arise  from  transactions  of  this  nature. 

I  am,  Sir, 

Your  humble  servant, 

Q  IN  THE  C0EN2R. 


LETTER  LXXV. 

TO   THOMAS   BRADSHAW,   ESQ* 

July  7, 177a 
Your  honourable  colleague,  Mr.  Cooper,  bore  witness  to  youf 
innocence.  So  full  a  vindication  was  superfluous.  I  dwe 
answer  for  it,  that  the  opinion  which  the  public  had  conceived 
of  your  integrity  is  still  unaltered ;  it  could  not  have  been 
lessened  although  your  champion  never  had  appeared ;  nor 
has  his  entrance  within  the  lists  at  all  increased  it.  I  took 
the  liberty  to  appeal  from  his  decision  to  your  own :  you  seem 
determined  to  be  silent.  Perhaps  the  rigour  of  your  situation 
deprives  you  of  any  choice  between  the  sacrifice  of  truth  and 
of  yourself.  You  nobly  hesitate  to  make  the  first,  and  tacitly 
confess  that  in  one  heedless  moment  throughout  a  life  of  un- 
polluted honesty  you  may  have  been  to  blame.  Perhaps  you 
do  not  think  it  quite  ineligible  to  let  this  matter  die  away. 
Consult  the  feelings  of  your  heart,  and  they  will  tell  you  that 
the  public  forms  of  justice  can  avail  but  little.  They  will  not 
either  yield  a  shelter  to  yourself,  or  enable  you  to  direct  the 
storm  against  another.  I  have  not  written  from  conjecture, 
nor .  can  you  be  ignorant  that  T  have  drawn  my  intelligence 
from  its  first  source,  and  not  the  common  falsities  of  the  dav. 
There  is  a  place  which  once  was  called  the  House  of  Prayer  ; 
I  leave  it  to  men  more  versed  in  Scripture  phrases  than  my- 
self to  tell  you  what  it  is  at  present.  Should  you  hereafter 
think  it  proper  to  discuss  this  subject  there,  you  possibly  may 
tind  an  individual  in  that  virtuous  congregation  who  will 
6ist  the  hitherto  ineffectual  inquiries  of 

Q  IN  THE  GO&NBR. 


CITY  ELBOTIOK  OF  WILKRS.  '  807 


LETTER  LXXVI. 


TO   THE   PRINTER  OF  THE   PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 

Sir,  July  7,  1770. 

I  FIND  myself  engaged  at  ouce  with  two  antagonists  of  Tery 
different  complexions.  I  must  content  myself,  however,  with 
opposing  the  same  ohvious  reasoning  of  a  plain  man  to  the 
cool  circumspect  address  of  The  Fellow-labourer  in  the  Public 
Cause,  and  to  the  rapid,  eager  precipitation  of  his  supporter. 
The  latter  of  these  gentlemen,  with  a  temperance  that  does 
not  seem  to  belong  to  him,  is  peremptorily  of  opinion,  "  that 
when  a  particular  injustice  is  founded  on,  and  supported  by,  a 
general  principle,  the  appeal  should  no  longer  be  made  to  the 
passions,  but  to  the  \visdom  of  the  people."  The  reverse  is, 
I  believe,  invariably  time.  Prudence  may  incline  us  to  for- 
get the  injury  of  a  moment,  the  impulse  of  passion,  or  the 
suggestion  of  caprice.  Let  the  same  injury  be  offered  to  us 
with  all  the  insolence  of  authority,  or  even  let  the  authority 
be  pretended  to  without  any  actual  exertion,  and  wisdom  her- 
self shall  call  forth  every  passion  to  resist  it. 

A  simple  tax  of  a  few  shillings,  illegally  extorted,  was  suffi- 
cient to  enlighten  the  understandings  of  the  whole  nation. 
Everybody  perceived  that  one  such  instance,  supporting  itself 
on  a  general  claim,  was  equivalent  to,  and  (like  an  universal 
proposition)  comprehended  a  thousand.  It  did  not  require 
the  sagacity  of  a  Hampden  to  deduce  the  consequences ;  but 
it  called  for  all  his  spirit  to  oppose  them. 

I  am  ready  to  acknowledge,  that  "  in  rigorous  consistency 
the  city  of  London  ought  not  to  return  any  representative  " 
to  St.  Stephen*s  Chapel ;  I  am  more  ready  to  dispense  with 
'•  the  attendance  of  some  of  the  present  city  members."  But 
I  am  still  willing  to  admit  the  necessity  of  their  departing  a 
little  from  that  rigour,  because  I  see  no  medium  between  sucli 
a  temporar}'  accommodation,  and  either  the  miseries  of  civil 
bloodshed,  or  (what  is  infinitely  more  to  be  deprecated)  the 
established  tranquillity  of  servitude. 

The  right  of  resistance  on  the  part  of  the  people  i&  the 
(litimate  sanction  of  our  civil  liberties.     But  God  forbid  that 

X  2 


308  MISCELLANEOUS   LETTERS  ASCRIBED   TO  JCSIUS. 

we  should  be  too  criticallj  exact  in  defining  the  precise  boun 
dary  where  the  exertion  of  that  right  becomes  a  duty.  The 
distresses  of  an  intestine  war  are  known  and  inevitable ;  the 
event  precarious.  It  may  be  better  to  submit,  for  a  time,  to 
what  even  is  an  irregularity  in  the  most  essential  part  of  the 
state  than  instantly  to  seek  redress  by  violence.  Every 
other  conceivable  method  ought  first  to  be  eagerly  adopted, 
and  earnestly  pursued.  Something  may  be  expected  from 
time,  from  iaiportunity,  from  fear ;  perhaps  something  even 
from  conscieace  and  remorse.  And  if,  at  length,  without 
coming  to  extremities,  the  integrity  of  the  legislature  should 
be  restored^  the  tyrannical  decisions  of  an  unauthorized  as- 
sembly will  of  course  be  abrogated ;  their  useful  acts  may  re- 
ceive a  raiUfieation  from  ^  legitimate  parliament. 

Tou  perceive,  Sjir,  i^bsX  I  am  not  here  maintaining  the  doc- 
trine asserted  ia  the  icity  remonstrance,  but  arguing  from  it. 
Yet  I  must  beg  leav«-to  observe,  that  the  distinction  intro- 
duced hj  this  correspondent,  between  a  speculative  and  a 
practiea}  parliament,  a  parliftment  de  jure  and  de  facto,  is 
equally  novel  and  monstrous.  On  this  account  I  cannot  but 
be  of  (pinion  that  the  city  should  adhere  to  their  constitu- 
tional speculation,  and  insist  that  Mr.  Wilkes  is  actual  repre- 
sentative of  Middlesex ;  although  they  may  without  blame, 
perhaps,  acquiesce,  for  a  time«  in  the  proceedings  of  an  as* 
fiembly  to  which  they  canoot  aven  allow  the  rank  of  a  con- 
vention. 

Eor  the  sake  of  peace  tibey  may  be  justified  in  returning 
Mr.  Olivor.  For  the  sake  not  merely  of  consistency,  but  of 
the  safety  and  dignity  of  the  state,  Mr.  Wilkes  must  not  be 
idlowed  to  quit  **lhe  sure  ground  on  which  he  stands,*'  to 
borrow  an  expression  of  his  own  in  an  address  to  his  con- 
Btituents. 

But  it  seems,  "  if  Mr.  Wilkes  were  returned  by  the  city, 
and  admitted  to  take  his  seat,  the  unconstitutional  principle 
would  be  if8o  facto  overturned."  Let  us  see,  then,  how  the 
Argument  mil  stimd.  If  the  admission  of  Mr.  Wilkes  would 
ipso  facto  overturn  tbe  unconstitutional  principle,  undoubtedly 
the  continoadon  of  Mr.  Luttrell  must  ipso  facto  perpetuate  it. 
What  is  this  but  to  make  the  House  of  Commons  such  an  ab- 
surd monster  in  politics  as  has  never  yet  disgraced  the  rea- 
Bon  or  the  patience  of  mankind :  a  legislatire  body  subsistii^ 


CITT  ELECTION   OF  WILKKS.  8U9 

by  two  principles  (ea^h  in  its  full  force  and  energy),  equal 
contrary,  and  mutually  destructive. 

The  FeUoW'lahourer  of  this  day  has,  indeed,  candidly 
admitted  that  the  extermination  of  Mr.  Luttrell  is  the  indis- 
pensable  point,  if  your  other  correspondent,  who  absolutely 
denies  the  position,  will  indulge  me  in  the  phrase.  Mr. 
Luttrell  holds  his  seat  by  a  very  different  title  from  a 
common  determination  in  the  case  of  a  contested  return.  In 
the  latter  instance,  the  jurisdiction  of  the  House  is  competent; 
nor  has  the  constitution  hitherto  provided  an  appeal  for  their 
decision.  In  the  case  before  us,  a  new  and  unheard-of  power 
is  supposed  to  be  usurped,  and  rights  beyond  the  reach  of 
the  whole  legislature,  I  mean  the  fundamental  rights  of  the 
people,  invaded  by  a  third  part  of  it.  By  this  invasion  Mr. 
Luttrell  was  seated;  upon  this  principle  the  return  was 
amended  by  the  House  and  his  name  inserted ;  and  it  is  in 
consequence  of  that  alteration  that  he  still  ranks  as  a  member 
Af  parliament.  As  long,  therefore,  as  he  shall  be  permitted 
to  sit  there,  so  long  will  the  principle  be  in  force.  For  in 
the  House  of  Commons,  as  in  every  other  court,  prove  the 
'urisdiction  to  be  incompetent  to  the  case,  and  the  adjudica- 
tion falls  to  the  ground. 

It  appears  to  me  that  both  your  correspondents  have  con- 
templated this  subject  in  too  confined  a  view.  For  my  own 
part,  I  think'  too  highly  of  Mr.  Wilkes's  services  to  the  state, 
and  of  the  sacredness  of  our  common  cause,  to  wish  either  one 
or  the  other  to  be  made  a  mere  engine  of  party,  or  a  scare* 
crow  of  opposition.  But  since  the  gentlemen  from  whom  I 
dissent  have  delivered  their  sentiments  concerning  the  effect 
which  the  proposed  measure  would  probably  produce  in  the 
House  of  Commons  and  in  ministry,  I,  too,  in  my  turn,  will 
venture  to  pronounce  that  nothing  is  so  ardently  desired  by 
either,  an  a  separation  between  the  county  of  Middlesex  and 
Mr.  Wilkes. 
\  I  am,  Sir, 

Your  humble  Servant, 
A  LABOUBEB  I^  THE  SAlTS  CAUSB. 


310  VCSGELLANEOUS  1JSTTEBS  ASCBI6ED  TO  JUKIUd. 


LETTER  LXXVII. 

TO   THE   PRINTER  OF  THE   PUBLIC  ADVERTISER. 

Sir,  NoTember  19,  1770. 

A  FEW  days  ago  I  was  in  a  large  public  company,  whero 
there  happened  some  curious  conversation.  The  Secretary  at 
War'*'  was  pleased  to  express  himself  with  unusual  simplicity 
and  candour.  He  assured  us  that,  after  having  carefully  con- 
sidered the  subject,  he  did  not  know  a  single  general  officer 
(out  of  near  an  hundred  now  in  the  service)  who  was  in  any 
s\iape  qualified  to  command  the  army ;  and,  for  fear  we  should 
not  believe  him,  repeated  and  inforced  his  assertion  five  seve- 
ral times.  You  will  allow,  Sir,  that,  at  the  eve  of  a  foreign 
war,  this  is  pretty  comfortable  intelligence  for  the  nation,  es- 
pecially as  it  comes  from  authority.  He  gave  us  some  conso- 
lation, however,  by  assuring  us  that  he  and  General  Hervey 
would  take  excellent  care  of  the  army,  and  compared  himself 
(not  unhappily)  to  an  old  woman  ciriug  an  ague  with  the 
assistance  of  Dr.  RadclifP.  I  don't  so  much  question  Mr. 
Hervey  s  being  able  to  give  good  advice  as  that  other  little 
man's  being  either  willing  or  able  to  follow  it ;  but  I  should 
be  glad  to  know  which  of  them  is  to  be  responsible  to  the 
country  for  the  management  of  the  army,  or  whether  they  are 
invested  with  equal  powers.  Is  Lord  Harrington  the  marks- 
man and  General  Hervey  only  the  stalking-horse  ?  Or  does 
the  latter  command  and  that  other  only  do  as  he  is  bid?  This 
point,  1  think,  ought  to  be  explained,  for  if  we  don't  know 
who  commands  the  army,  and  any  mischief  should  happen, 
the  Secretary  at  War  and  Adjutant  General  will  of  course  lay 
the  blame  upon  each  other,  and  the  nation  never  know  which 
of  them  ougb.t  to  be  punished. 

TBSTia 

*  Lord  Yisconnt  Bairington. 


8TB1CTURES  ON  GENERAL  OFFICERS.  311 


LETTER  LXXVIII*. 


TO   THE   PRINTER  OF  THE   PUBUC   ADVEHIISER 

Sib,  ^  Novemb<r  24,  1770. 

I  BATE  never  joined  in  the  severe  censures  which  have 
ately  heen  thrown  upon  liord  Barrington.  The  formal 
declaration  he  wiys  pleased  to  make  (for  the  information  of 
the  House  of  Commons  and  of  this  country)  with  respect  to 
the  shameful  ignorance  and  incapacity  f^^  all  the  general 
officers,  without  exception,  may,  for  aught  I  know,  be  ex- 
tremely well  founded ;  and  if  it  were  not  so,  I  do  not  consider 
the  Viscount  as  a  free  agent.  He  undoubtedly  meant  no 
more  than,  as  a  dutiful  sers^ant,  to  obey  the  orders  and 
express  the  sentiments  of  his  royal  master.  The  Secretary 
at  War,  it  is  true,  has  a  multitude  of  enemies,  but  the 
bitterest  of  them  will  not  affirm  that  he  is  positively  an  idiot 
without  a  single  ray  of  understanding.  That  would  be  going 
a  little  too  far.  Yet  he  must  certainly  be  the  very  weakest  of 
the  human  species  if,  without  any  plan  or  purpose  whatso- 
ever, he  loaded  himself  with  the  hatred  and  resentment  of  so 
large  and  powerful  a  body  of  men  as  the  general  officers. 
This,  I  think,  is  too  absurd  to  be  supposed.  Yet  1  do  not 
pretend  to  deny  the  fact ;  on  the  contrary,  I  mean  to  account 
for  it  upon  clear  and  rational  principles.  If  it  be  the  King's 
intention  (as  we  have  sufficient  reason  to  think  it  is)  to 
govern  the  army  himself  (by  which  means  the  disposal  of 
commissions,  like  everytliing  else,  will  ultimately  centre  in 
Carlton  House),  the  firet  step  is  to  possess  the  public  with  an 
opinion  that  this  measure  is  not  of  choice  but  necessity.  When 
the  Secretary  at  War  has  informed  the  House  of  Commons,  in 
the  name  of  his  gracious  master  (for  it  is  not  to  be  suspected 
that  he  spoke  for  himself),  that  all  his  general  officers  were  no 
letter  than  drivellers,  it  follows  of  course  that  the  Secretary 
at  War,  with  the  Adjutant  General  s  advice,  must  be  the  os- 
tensible manager  of  the  army,  and  then  you  see.  Sir,  every- 

•  On  the  outside  of  Note  No.  25,  which  accompanied  this  letter,  wai 
written,  by  the  author,  *'&%  euclosed  strikes  deeper  than  fon  nur 
imagine.     C." 


SIS  lllflOELT.\K£OUH  LETTERS  ASCBIBED   TO  JUNIUg. 

thing  goes  on  as  her  Royal  Highness  the  Princess  Dowager 
of  Wales  would  have  it. 

Far  he  it  from  me  to  impeach  his  Majesty's  judgment  in 
military  matters.  Our  gracious  Sovereign  cannot  possibly 
have  a  meaner  opinion  of  his  general  officers  than  I  have. 
Yet  I  own  there  is  one  circumstance  that  a  little  surprises 
me.  These  poor  creatures,  it  is  agreed  on  all  hands,  have 
neither  capacity  nbr  experience ;  but  one  would  think  that,  as 
soldiers  and  gentlemen,  they  might  show  a  little  spirit  when 
they  are  insulted.  What,  will  they  go  to  court  again,  to  bow, 
and  cringe,  and  fawn  upon  «****,  who  orders  his  official 
servant  to  point  them  out  to  their  country  as  a  knot  of  idiots 
— asses— mules — beasts  of  burthen ! 

This  affidr,  Sir  (as  many  other  circumstances  do,  and  more 
important  ones  may  do  hereafter),  puts  me  in  mind  of  the 
sincere,  honest,  candid  chaiucter  of  that  pious  prince,  Charles 
the  First  W|hen  a  great  number  of  the  first  people  of  this 
country  had  hazarded  their  lives  and  spent  their  fortunes  in 
liis  defence,  and  when,  in  the  last  instance,  they  had  formed 
a  convention  at  Oxford,  which,  if  not  a  parliament,  was 
at  least  a  meeting  highly  respectable,  what  return  did  they 
receive  from  that  devout  religious,  grateful  monarch  ?  He 
Battered  them  to  their  faces,  and  the  next  moment  wrote  to 
nis  wife  that  they  were  a  base  mutinous  set  of  mongrel8> 
whom  he  was  happy  to  get  rid  of. 

ETSTICULUS. 


LETTER  LXXIX 

TO  THE  PBINTEB  OF  THE   PUBUC  ADYEBTISEB 

Sis,  December  8, 1770. 

A  BEPOBT  prevails  that  the  late  premier  is  very  soon  to  be 
placed  at  the  head  of  the  admiralty.  I  thought  Junius  had 
fairly  hissed  him  ofif  the  stage.  But  since  he  adventures 
again  to  appear  before  the  public,  let  me  do  justice  to  his 
modesty,  and  commend  him  for  his  discretion  in  sinking  to 
an  inferior  character.  I  should  be  sorry  to  interrupt  so 
natural  a  descent.  By  dropping  gradually  from  part  to  part 
he  may  in  time  arrive  At  something  that  will  suit  his  capacity 


LKTTBE  OP  DOMTTIAN.  813 

Besides  the  moral  fitness  of  reducing  all  men  to  their  proper 
level,  there  will  be  a  novelty  in  l£e  public  entertainment, 
^hen  we  see  the  same  wretched  stroller,  who  strutted  yester- 
day in  Othello,  creeping  upon  the  stage  to  day  in  the  shape  of 
a  candle^snuffer. 

In  the  article  of  firmness,  I  think  this  young  man  s  cha- 
racter is  universally  given  up ;  but  I  observe  there  is  still  an 
opinion  maintained  by  some  people  that,  in  point  of  ability, 
he  is  not  deficient:  For  my  own  part,  Sir,  I  never  could  dis- 
cover upon  what  foundation  that  opinion  rested.  Let  it  be 
fairly  tried  by  the  two  great  decisive  tests  of  the  human  un- 
derstanding—conc^uct  and  discourse.  These,  I  know,  are 
sometimes  at  variance  with  each  other.  An  ingenious  man 
may  act  very  absurdly,  and  we  frequently  see  a  dull  fellow 
conduct  himself  with  firmness  and  propriety.  It  is  the  Duke's 
misfortune  that  he  fails  equally  \n  both  articles — that  he 
neither  acts  with  judgment  nor  speaks  with  ability.  Look  at 
his  conduct  from  the  outset;  I  mean  with  a  reference  not  to 
the  treachery,  but  to  the  foUy  of  the  man.  His  earliest  per- 
sonal attachment  in  life  was  to  the  Duke  of  Portland ;  that 
friendship  he  has  foolishly  dissolved,  without  succeeding  in 
his  purpose,  to  oblige  Sir  James  Lowther.  His  first  public 
connection  was  with  Lord  Rockingham.  That  too  is  lost,  to- 
gether with  the  friendship  of  Lord  Chatham,  for  which  he 
sacrificed  the  Marquis.  For  the  solidity  of  his  imion  with 
Lord  Chatham  he  pledged  himself  to  the  public  by  some  very 
uncommon  declarations,  both  abroad  and  in  parliament.  Yet 
from  this  union,  and  his  subsequent  friendship  with  Lord 
Granby  and  Lord  Camden,  the  cajolery  of  the  closet  soon 
seduced  him.  His  easy  virtue  is  not  made  for  resistance. 
To  support  his  last  plan,  we  have  seen  him  renounce  not  only 
all  these  successive  connections,  but  every  political  idea, 
opinion,  and  principle  of  his  former  life,  and  throw  himself, 
body  and  soul,  into  the  arms  of  the  Bedfords.  Here,  at  least, 
he  might  have  stopped,  since  there  was  not  another  party  in 
the  kingdom  to  which  it  was  possible. for  him  to  transfer  his 
affections.  He  had  gone  resolutely  through  the  whole 
drudgery  of  the  Middlesex  election.  He  had  paid  Governor 
Burgoyne's  expenses  very  handsomely  by  the  sale  of  that 
patent  to  Mr.  Hine,  which  the  right  honourable  the  House  of 
Commons  have  not  yet  thought  proper  to  inquire  into     He 


314  MISCELIANEOOS   J^EITERS   ASOKIRKD   TO  JUNJUS. 

had  shown  fortitude  enough  to  drop  the  prosecution  of  Mf . 
Yaughan,  though  urged,  insulted,  braved  to  it  bj  every 
itimuhu  that  could  touch  the  feelings  of  a  man :  and,  in  con« 
elusion,  he  had  made  himself  accessory  to  the  untimely  death 
of  Mr.  Yorke; — I  say  accessory^  because  he  was  certainly  not 
the  principal  actor  in  that  most  atrocious  business.  After  all. 
Sir,  when  it  was  impossible  for  him  to  add  to  his  guiltiness,  a 
panic  seizes  him,  he  begins  to  measure  his  expectations  by  the 
sense  of  his  deserts,  a  visionary  gibbet  appears  before  his  eyes, 
he  flies  from  his  post,  surrenders  to  another  the  reward  due  to 
his  honourable  services,  and  leaves  his  King  and  country  to 
extricate  themselves,  if  they  can,  from  the  distress  and  con- 
fusion in  which  he  had  involved  them. 

The  danger,  as  he  conceives,  being  now  pretty  well  over, 
what  plan  do  you  think  this  worthy,  resolute  young  man  pur- 
sues at  present?  While  he  was  First  Lord  of  the  Treasury, 
it  is  well  known  (and  I  speak  from  knowledge  when  1  assert), 
that  he  never  treated  Lord  North  even  with  the  common  ci\i- 
lity  due  to  his  clerk.  I  appeal  to  Lord  North  himself,  and 
to  every  clerk  in  the  treasury  (particularly  to  Grey  Cooper), 
whether  it  was  not  known  to  be  a  difficult  matter  for  the 
Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer  to  obtain  an  audience  even  of 
Mr.  Thomas  Bradshaw.  Would  you  believe  it  possible.  Sir, 
that,  after  these  facts,  this  very  Duke  of  Grafton  can  be  so 
degraded,  so  lost  to  every  sensation  of  pride,  of  dignity,  and 
decorum,  as  to  be  a  suppliant  beggar  for  employment  to  this 
very  Lord  North  ?  Yet  so  it  is ;  and,  if  I  were  to  tell  you 
with  what  circumstances  of  humiliation  he  accompanies  his 
suit  to  the  minister,  the  narrative  would  be  nauseous  and  ful- 
some. He  is  so  very  impatient  to  be  First  Lord  of  the  Admi- 
ralty, that  Lord  North  can  hardly  keep  the  fawning  creature 
from  under  his  feet.  Now,  Sir,  let  any  man  living,  I  care 
not  whether  friend  or  foe,  review  this  suramai-y  of  his  life,  and 
tell  us  in  what  instance  he  has  discovered  a  single  ray  of  wis- 
dom, solidity,  or  judgment? 

As  to  the  other  test  of  his  abilities,  I  mean  his  talent  for 
talking  in  public,  I  can  speak  with  greater  precision,  for  I 
have  often  had  the  honour  of  hearing  him.  With  a  very 
solemn  and  plausible  delivery,  he  has  a  set  of  tlioughts,  or 
rather  of  words  resembling  thoughts,  which  may  be  applied 
indifferently,  and  with  equtd  success,  to  all  possible  subjects 


LETTER   OF   DOMITIAN.  315 

There  is  this  singular  advantage  in  his  Grace's  method  of  dis- 
course, that,  if  it  were  once  admitted  that  he  spoke  well  upon 
any  one  given  topic,  it  would  inevitably  follow  that  he  was 
qualified  to  deliver  himself  happily  upon  everv  subject  what- 
soever. He  would  be  ipso  facto  an  universal  orator.  Accept 
of  the  following  specimen  of  bis  Grace's  eloquence,  and  I  pro- 
mise you  you  will  be  as  well  able  to  judge  of  his  oratorical 
powers  as  if  you  had  heard  him  a  thousand  times. 
"  My  Lords, 

"When  I  came  into  the  house  this  day,  I  protest  I  did 
not  think  it  possible,  indeed  I  had  formed  in  my  own  breast 
a  resolution  to  the  contrary ;  but,  my  Lords,  I  really  thought 
it  impossible  that  I  should  be  compelled  to  trouble  your 
Lordships  with  my  poor  thoughts  upon  the  question  before 
your  Lordships.  I  never  do  presume  to  trouble  your  Lord- 
ships at  any  time  without  always  feeling  a  pain,  an  internal 
regret,  a  degree  of  uneasiness,  which  I  can  with  truth  assure 
your  Lordships  (and  I  flatter  myself  that  I  shall  find  credit 
with  every  noble  lord  who  hears  me),  it  is  not  eas^  for  me  to 
have  the  honour  of  describing  to  your  Lordships.  My  Lords, 
I  am  called  upon,  as  I  humbly  conceive,  and  I  appeal  boldly 
not  only  to  the  candour  of  noble  lords,  but  to  your  Lordships* 
severest  judgment,  whether  I  am  not  compelled  to  declare  my 
sentiments,  as  explicitly  as  I  now  do,  upon  the  motion  upon 
your  Lordships'  table.  Upon  this  ground,  my  Lords,  T  meet 
the  noble  Lord  without  fear,  though  I  respect  his  superior 
abilities,  and  I  pledge  my^eM  to  your  Lordships  for  the  truth 
of  what  I  assert.  Otherwise,  my  Lords,  if  facts  were  not  as 
I  have  stated  them,  where  will  your  Lordships  draw  the  line  ? 
My  Lords,  I  am  really  astonished ;  yet  indeed,  my  Lords, 
ought  not  to  be  a^onished.  The  question  has  been  handled 
with  so  much  ability  by  other  noble  lords,  that  I  shall  cont  nt 
myself  with  this  simple,  unadorned  declaration  of  my  opinion. 
Yet  I  could  quote  cases,  my  Lords,  which  I  accidentally  et 
with  this  morning  in  the  course  of  my  readings,  which  1 
doubt  not,  would  convince  your  Lordships,  if  conviction  w  re 
in  question.  But  I  fear  I  have  troubled  your  Lordships  too 
long.  I  shall  therefore  return  to  the  leading  proposition, 
which  I  had  the  honour  of  setting  out  with,  and  move  for  an 
immediate  adjournment." 

This  style,  I  apprehend,  Sir,  is  what  the  learned  Scriblerug 


816  MISCELLANEOUS  LETTERS   ASCRIBED   TO  JUNTUfl. 

calls  rigmarole  in  logic,  riddlemeree  among  schoolboys,  and 
in  vulgar  acceptation,  Three  blue  beans  in  a  blue  bladder.  It 
is  the  perpetual  parturience  of  a  mountain  and  the  never- 
failing  delivery  of  a  mouse. 

I  am,  Sir, 

Your  humble  Servant, 

DOMITIAN^. 


LETTER  LXXX. 

For  the  Public  Advertiser. 

December  13, 1770. 
CHAPTER  OF   FACTS,   OR  MATERIALS    FOR  HISTORY f. 

1.  The  House  of  Lords,  justly  offended  at  the  accuracy  and 
precision  with  which  a  certain  noble  Duke's  oration  |  has 
oeen  delivered  to  the  public,  and  concluding  that  the  very 
words  must  have  been  taken  down  in  writing,  by  some  foreign 
enemy,  have  determined  to  preserve  the  honour  of  their 
members,  and  the  credit  of  their  eloquence,  by  ordering  all 
strangers  to  be  carefully  excluded. 

2.  But  not  to  give  offence,  the  exclusion  is  made  general ; 
their  Lordships  very  properly  considering  that  the  members 
of  the  House  of  Commons  are  no  more  fit  to  be  trusted  with 
the  debates  of  a  public  assembly  than  the  spies  or  emissaries 
of  a  foreign  ambassador,  or  so  many  Jesuits  in  disguise. 

3.  The  right  honourable  the  Speaker  of  the  House  of  Lords 
was  pleased  to  summon  all  the  lords  to  attend  on  Monday 
last,  on  purpose  to  inform  their  Lordships  collectively  in  what 
comer  of  the  house  each  lord  separately  might  find  waste 
paper  for  his  necessary  occasions.  N.  B.  It  seems  to  be  the 
fate  of  this  unhappy  paper  (which  always  brings  nasty  ideas 
with  it)  to  be  produced  in  a  most  unseemly  manner.  In  the 
Court  of  King's  Bench,  the  introduction  of  it  was  allowed  to 
be  irregular  J  unprecedented^  and  extrajudicial.   In  the  House 

It  has  been  already  remarked  that  Jnniuf  admitted  thii  to  be  one  d 
his  signatures. — Ed. 
f  By  Junius,  see  note,  pott^  p.  81  tf. 
X  See  the  preceding  letter. 


MATKBTALS   FOB  HISTORY.  317 

of  Lords  it  was  only  silly  and  ridiculous.  What  a  strange 
antipathy  some  men  have  to  a  record!  When  they  dare  not 
erase  they  fairly  take  post  and  travel  out  of  it. 

4.  The  bill  for  regulating  contested  elections  was  strenu- 
ously opposed  by  Lord  North  and  the  rest  of  the  King's  ser- 
vants. Yet  every  one  of  the  judges  who  went  the  circui:  last 
summer,  instead  of  instructing  the  several  grand  juries  ia  the 
old,  legal,  constitutional  way».  were  ordered  to  sound  the 
praises  of  the  House  of  Commons  for  their  singular  virtue  in 
passing  this  and  the  privilege  bill.  And  now  let  it  be  ob- 
served that  in  the  first  instance  of  the  operation  of  this  new 
law  (the  Shoreham  election)  not  one  of  the  ministers  attended 
Yet,  intrusted  as  they  are  with  the  executive  power  of  the 
state,  it  is  their  particular  duty  to  attend,  to  facilitate,  and 
inforce  the  execution  of  the  laws;  and  these  are  the  people 
who  deafen  us  with  their  complaints  of  the  licentiousness  of 
the  times,  and  the  total  want  of  respect  into  which  the  laws 
are  fallen. 

5.  So  far  from  performing  this  duty,  it  is  a  £Etct  notorious 
that  one  Purling,  a  Caribhee,  has  been  encouraged  by  ministry 
to  introduce  a  third  candidate  at  Shoreham,  and  to  give  him 
four  of  his  own  votes,  in  order  that  by  having  two  petitions 
preferred  (a  case  not  expressly  provided  for  by  the  act),  this 
wise,  this  salutary  law  may  be  defeated  in  the  first  instance, 
and  have  a  contempt  thrown  upon  it. 

6.  Let  it  be  known  to  posterity,  that  when  Lord  Mansfield 
was  attacked  with  so  much  vehemence  in  the  House  of  Com- 
mons on  Thursday  the  6th  instant,  not  one  of  the  ministry 
said  a  word  in  his  defence.  Nobody  spoke  for  him  but  the 
Carlton  House  junto,  Jenkiuson  and  Sir  Gilbert  (N.B. 
Mungo  is  sick).  Even  Mr.  George  Onslow,  who  in  general 
is  not  very  scrupulous,  confined  himself  to  the  defence  of  Mr. 
Baron  Smythe,  and  did  not  utter  a  syllable  in  favour  of  poor 
Mansfield.  These  facts  show  plainly:  1st,  How  the  Carlton 
House  connection  hangs  togetiier.  2nd,  That  Lord  North 
himself  is  not  over  and  above  pleased  with  the  closet  influence 

of  the  GHfEF  JUGOLER. 

The  great  Lord  Camden  did  yesterday  ■(!  1th  of  December, 
1770)  address  himself  directly  to  Lord  Mansfield,  and  declare 
that  he  considered  the  paper  delivered  in  by  that  Lord  as  a 
ehallenge  to  himself,  whicl    he  accepted ;  tkat  the  glove  was 


Bm  MISCELLANEOUS   LETTEjtS   ASGBIBED   TO  JUmOB. 

thrown  down,  and  he  took  it  up.  That  he  was  ready  to  raeel 
him  in  defence  of  the  laws  of  this  countrjs  and  vehemeiitij 
urged  that  a  day  might  be  fixed  for  debating  the  matter.  But 
notwithstanding  every  possible  instance  made  by  the  minority 
Lords,  the  Chief  Justice  shrunk  from  the  combat,  and  would 
not  fix  any  day. 


LETTER  LXXXI 

For  the  Public  Advertiser. 

December  14, 1770 
SECOND   CHAPTER  OF   FACTS,   OB  MATERIALS   FOR  HISTORY. 

1.  The  Earl  of  Chatham  having  asserted,  on  Tuesday  last, 
in  the  House  of  Lords,  that  Gibraltar  was  open  to  an  attack 
from  the  sea,  and  that,  if  the  enemy  were  masters  of  the  bay, 
the  place  could  not  make  any  long  resistance,  he  was  answered 
in  the  following  words  by  diat  great  statesman  the  Earl  of 
Sandwich: — ''Supposing  the  noble  Lord's  argument  to  be 
well  founded,  and  supposing  CHbraltar  to  be  now  unluckily 
taken,  still,  according  to  the  noble  Lord  s  own  doctrine,  it 
would  be  no  great  matter.  For  although  we  are  not  masters 
of  the  sea  at  present,  we  probably  shall  be  so  some  time  or 
other,  and  then,  my  Lords,  there  will  be  no  difficulty  in  re 
taking  Gibraltar."  N.B.  This  Earl  is  a  privy  counsellor,  and 
appeared  to  have  concerted  this  satisfactory  answer  with  Peg 
Trentham  at  the  fire-side. 

^.  Sir  Edward  Hawke,  on  Wednesday  last,  gave  the 
House  of  Commons  a  very  pompous  account  of  the  fleet. 
Being  asked  why,  if  our  navy  was  so  numerous  and  ready  for 
service,  a  squadron  was  not  sent  to  Gibraltar  and  the  West 
Indies?  his  answer  was  candid: — ''That  for  his  part  he  did 
not  understand  sending  ships  abroad  when,  for  aught  he  Imew, 
they  might  be  wanted  to  defend  our  own  coast"  Such  is  the 
care  taken  of  our  possessions  abroad !  One  great  minister 
tells  us  they  may  be  easily  retaken;  another  assures  us 
that  they  cannot  be  defended.  Will  that  man  who  sleepetb 
never  awake  until  destruction  comes  upon  him  ?    Has  he  uc 


MATEBTALS   FOR  fllSTOBr.  319 

friend,  no  servant,  to  draw  his  curtain,  until  Troy  is  actual I3 
in  flames  ? 

3.  Lord  North  informed  the  House  of  Commons  on  Wed- 
nesday that,  although  he  wished  for  an  honourable  accommo- 
dation, he  thought  it  his  duty  to  tell  the  House,  that  he  feared 
war  was  too  probable ;  that  he  intended  to  move  for  a  further 
augmentation  of  ten  thousand  seamen*,  and  that,  at  any  rate, 
he  should  advise  the  keeping  up  the  naval  and  military  force 
upon  the  augmented  stablishment,  for  that,  notwithstanding 
the  language  held  by  the  French  and  Spanish  ministers,  there 
was,  all  over  France  and  Spain,  the  greatest  appearance  of 
hostile  preparations. 

4.  The  riot  in  the  House  of  Lords  has  shocked  the  delicacy 
of  Sir  Fletcher  Norton.  Upon  occasion  of  some  clamour  yes- 
terday, he  called  to  them,  with  all  the  softness  of  a  bassoon. 
Pray,  gentlemen^  be  orderly;  you  are  almost  as  bad  a»  the 
other  Home. 

5.  On  Tuesday  last,  Lord  Camden  delivered  into  the 
House  of  Lords  a  paper  containing  three  questions,  relative 
to  the  doctrine  laid  down  in  Lord  Mansfield's  paper,  which  he 

*  Both  this  and  the  preceding  communication  were  unquestionably  from 
Junius.  His  industry  in  collecting  information,  in  attending  the  debates  of 
parliament,  and  communicating  the  results  of  each  through  different  channels, 
was  indefatigable.  In  a  letter  addressed  by  Mr.  Calcnift  to  the  Earl  of 
Chatham,  dated  December  16,  1770,  a  similar  report  is  made  of  the  proba- 
bility of  war,  and  the  utterances  of  Lord  North,  and  which  it  is  likely  either 
Junius  had  communicated  to  Calcraft,  or  Calcraft,  who  was  a  member,  to 
Junius.     Mr.  Calcraft  siiys  to  his  Lordship  : — 

"  First  for  the  land-tax.  Lord  North  alleged  the  four  shillings  necessary  for 
the  year,  in  any  event.  He  told  us  our  situation  was  precarious ;  that  war 
was  too  probable ;  that  so  many  more  shjps  were  ordered  to  be  fitted  as 
would  take  9000  additional  seamen ;  and  though  Spain  should  come  to  terms 
of  accommodation,  it  would  be  unwise  to  disarm  whilst  the  warlike  prepani> 
tions  of  France  and  Spain  continued." — Chatham  Correspondence tyo\.  iv.  p.  57. 

Of  the  riot  mentioned  in  the  next  paragraph  by  Junius,  Mr.  Calcraft,  in 
the  same  letter  says,  "  Now  for  yesterday  I  Lord  George  Germain  moved  for 
a  conference  with  the  Lords,  was  seconded  by  Lord  George  Cavendish,  and 
most  ably  supported  by  Mr.  Dunning,  Colonel  Barr6,  and  Mr.  Burke. 
Their  speeches  were  admirable.  Barre  described  the  riot  in  the  Lords  as 
a  mob  broke  in,  headed  by  Lords  Marchmont  and  Denbigh,  of  whose  persons 
lie  gave  the  most  ridiculous  description." — Ibid,  p.  58. 

I  have  already  mentioned  the  fact  that  Sir  Philip  Francis  obtained  from 
tbe  late  John  Calcraft,  Esq.,  all  the  letters  and  papers  Sir  Philip  had  fo^ 
taulj  addressed  to  hie  father,  the  above-mentioned  Mi.  CaL^raft^'^Bi)* 


320  MISGETXANEOUS  LETTEB8  ASCRIBED  TO  JUNIUS 

desired  that  Lord  would  answer,  if  he  could.  Lord  Mansfield 
was  veiy  angry  at  being  taken  by  surprise  upon  a  subject  he 
Had  neyer  had  an  opportunity  of  considering,  and  that  he 
valued  the  constitutional  liberty  of  the  subject  too  much  to 
answer  interrogatories  *, 


LETTER  LXXXIL 

TO   THE   PBINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC  ADYEBTISEB. 

Sib,  December  17, 1770. 

As  far  as  assertion  goes,  no  man  argues  better  than   your 
correspondent  Nerval*     If  we  are  contented  to  take  his  word 

*   Vide  Lord  Mansfield,  note,  jxut,  p.  824. 

f  Nerva  was  a  vriter  in  fitvour  of  Lord  Mansfield  upon  the  subject  of  his 
conduct  in  the  cause  of  the  King  against  Woodfall  for  printing  Junius's 
Letter  to  his  Majesty ;  as  well  as  for  his  posterior  proceeding  in  the  Honae  of 
Peers  upon  the  matter  of  this  cause ;  in  the  course  of  which  he  thouglit 
proper,  as  has  been  observed  already,  to  summons  the  House  specially,  in 
order  to  afibrd  him  an  opportunity  of  fully  explaining  himself  upon  this 
point ;  an  opportunity,  however,  of  which  he  was  even  at  last  afraid  to  avail 
himsell     See  Appendix,  voL  i  p.  472. 

The  letter  of  Iferva,  above  alluded  to,  was  addressed  to  Lord  Chatham, 
and  appeared  in  the  Pvhlic  AdverUter,  December  li,  1770.  The  following 
is  a  copy  ; — 

'*For  the  Public  Advertiser. 


ft 


TO  THE  RIGHT  HON.  LORD  0HATHA3C. 


"  My  Lord,  "  December  14,  1770. 

"  I  saw  on  Monday,  in  a  certain  great  assembly,  the  most  striking  contrast 
of  character  that  ever  was  exhibited  on  any  public  occasion.  On  the  one 
hand,  decency,  propriety,  dignity,  wisdom,  and  temper ;  on  the  other,  pre- 
sumption, insolence,  absurdity,  meanness,  folly,  ignorance,  and  rancour, 
four  Lordship  sat  for  one  of  the  pictures,  and,  I  am  sorry  to  say,  it  was  not 
for  the  best  To  speak  without  metaphor,  what  demon,  save  the  demon  of 
malice,  could  inspire  you  with  an  objection  to  the  fiur,  the  equitable  infinia- 
tion  which  Lord  Mansfield  ofiered  to  the  House  1  The  proposal  itmAi,  the 
terms  in  which  it  was  conceived,  would  have  conciliated  a  barbarian ;  but 
your  animosity  is  worse  than  a  barbarian's,  and  betrays  the  principle  frcaa 
which  it  springs  1  In  an  unprecedented,  extn^udidal,  captions,  and  insh 
dious  manner,  you  had  taken  occasion  to  censuve  that  great  man's  oplnioiia  in 
the  court  of  justice  where  he  presides.  Though  you  endeaTour  to  take  him 
by  surprise,  that  you  might  catch  at  some  nn&ir  advantage  firom  his  answer^ 
yon  were  baffled  and  disappointed.  He  answered  you  with  the  noble  aim* 
l^ity  of  innocence,  and  the  wisdom  that  ne-*et  forsakes  the  mttis  wtseti 


OONDUCT  OF  CHIEF  JUSTICE    MANSFIELD.  321 

fo£  proof,  Lord  Chatham  is  a  hare-brained,  desperate  oid 
fellow,  and  Lord  Mansfield  the  very  quintessence  of  integrity 

recti.  He  fairly  stated  his  opinions;  and  the  principles  on  which  they  were 
grounded,  and,  without  recrimination,  he  threw  down  his  glove  to  yon,  and 
to  all,  daring  you  to  convict  him  of  an  error,  upon  fair  and  legal  argument. 

"He  did  more ;  to  prevent  that  misrepresentation  and  misconstruction  which 
might  arise  from  words  spoken,  be  delivered  to  the  House  the  opinion  given 
by  him  in  court  in  the  case  alluded  to  in  writing ;  candidly  and  formally  de- 
claring, that  he  meant  to  ground  no  motion  upon  it,  but  merely  for  the  in- 
formation of  every  member,  that  those  who  had  not  steeled  their  minds 
against  conviction  might  be  convinced  how  falsely  the  censure  had  been 
miside,  and  that  your  Lordship  and  your  party  might  have  a  more  open  ground 
of  objection  to  the  doctrine  which  the  writing  contained. 

**  When  I  give  this  account  of  Lord  Mansfield's  reasons  for  lubmitting  this 
paper  to  the  House,  I  do  wrong  to  the  moderation  of  his  expressions ;  but  I 
speak  to  a  man  whose  conscience  tells  him,  that  the  distinction  between  him 
and  those  who  are  open  to  conviction  is  but  toe  well  founded.  Be  that 
as  it  may,  one  would  have  thought  you  could  wish  for  nothing  more  than 
that  a  person  whose  doctrines  you  arraigned  should  give  them  under  his 
hand,  and  dare  you  to  the  trial  of  their  truth.  Instead  of  closing  with  the 
proposal,  you  rose  up  and  objected  to  the  delivery  of  the  paper  as  •informal ; 
but  it  is  no  new  thing  with  you,  after  you  have  made  a  malicious  and  ground- 
less attack,  when  yon  see  it  likely  to  produce  consequences,  to  shrink  back, 
and  shelter  yourself  imder  some  pitiful  evasion ;  catching  at  form,  or  any 
other  twig,  to  save  you  from  the  effects  of  year  own  folly  and  ill-nature. 
.  ''  But  if  you  had  made  an  end  here,  your  audience  had  gone  away,  con- 
vinced only  that  you  were  happy  to  get  out  of  the  scrape  into  which  you  had 
brought  yourself  by  your  unprecedented  and  unjust  attack  on  Lord  Mans- 
field. But,  as  if  you  were  determined  that  every  man  who  hears  you  should 
bear  witness  to  your  rambling  inconsistency  and  ignorance,  you  did  not  make 
an  end  here.  After  having  affirmed  that  the  paper  could  not  be  received-^ 
after  declaring  you  knew  not  what  was  censured  in  the  proceedings  of  the 
courts  of  justice,  nor  against  whom  in  particular  that  censure  was  directed — 
after  having  declared  also  your  ignorance  of  what  the  paper  contained,  ]fou 
entered  into  a  discussion  of  its  contents.  You  said  the  paper  contained  an 
extrajudicial  and  unprecedented  opinion,  and  that  the  judgment  was  not  war* 
ranted  by  the  record,  and  the  two  motions  on  which  the  judgment  was  U 
operate.  All  this  you  asserted  in  terms  unbecoming  the  place  in  which  you 
stood,  unbecoming  the  person  to  which  they  were  addressed,  and  highly  imr 
proper  to  be  used  by  one  who  spoke  about  what  he  did  not  understand.  All 
the  world  knows  that  you  are  ignorant  of  every  science.  This  country  se- 
verely smarts,  and  will  long  severely  smart,  for  your  ignorance  in  politics  aiid 
finance.  Tour  ignorance  of  the  law  may  not  perhaps  produce  such  fiital  con- 
sequences, but  it  was  such  on  the  occasion  I  speak  of  that  your  dependant, 
the  man  who  has  sold  himself  to  you  soul  and  body,  who  trembles  at  his 
tyrant's  frown,  durst  not  say  a  word  in  defence  of  your  position,  nor  even  by 
a  distinction  endeavour  to  shade  the  g1».re  of  your  absurdity. 

"  I  know  you  are  not  ashamed  of  the  grossest  ignoiance  and  absurdity ;  bu| 

VOL.  II.  Y 


322  MISCELLANEOUS  LETTEBS  ASCRIBED  TO  JUNIUS 

\visclom,  moderatioii,  and  firmness.  I  wonder  he  did  not 
assure  us  on  the  same  foundation  that  this  worthy  judge 
never  drank  the  Pretender's  health  upon  his  knees ;  or  that 
his  brother  was  not  secretary  to  that  most  Catholic  Prince 
or  that  Peg  Trentham's  father  had  not  his  left  foot  in  th 
stirrup  in  the  year  1715,  to  go  off  to  what  he  thought  the 
best  side  of  the  question :  all  this  too  I  suppose  we  shall  be 
told  is  mere  fiction,  mere  inference  of  law,  and  the  suggestion 
of  the  devil ;  but,  setting  aside  ornament,  let  us  look  a  little 
to  matters  of  fact. 

I  wonld  aak  yoa  one  question.  When  tbe  great  man,  whom  you  had  treated 
80  injuriously,  rose  up  to  eicplain,  and  with  the  most  amiable  moderatioii, 
and  intuitive  perspicuity,  pointed  out  your  mistake,  and  rectified  your  blon* 
der,  had  you  no  feelings  of  remorse  for  your  injustice  towards  him  %  Bid  you 
not  see  how  lovely  virttte  wu,  and  mtmrn  your  lout  Did  not  the  demon  o' 
ftiction  and  malice  retire  dejected  from  your  heart,  and  leave  you  in  the  mo 
mentary  possession  at  least  of  better  angels  1  If  not,  you  are  unhappy  in- 
deed!  But  I  err.  Perhaps  your  fiuniliar  whispered  to  you,  that  your  op- 
ponent's temper  was  an  argument  of  his  contempt ;  and,  to  sting  you  to  mad- 
ness, suggested  that  your  brutal  violence  was  unable  to  ruffle  the  steady  tenor 
of  his  soul.  I  own  this  were  a  galling  reflection  to  a  man  of  your  pride;  but 
pride  like  yours  must  suffer  every  indignity. 

"  If  this  was  his  motive  for  cidmness  and  moderation  it  was  taking  indeed 
vengeance,  but  a  heroic  vengeance.  Were  it  your  fortune  to  catch  him  at  a 
fdit  advantage  (an  event  which  can  never  happen),  how  differently  would 
you  use  it  1  With  what  vehemence  would  you  not  press  it  home  1  How 
would  you  exaggerate  a  molehill  to  a  mountain,  and  call  heaven  and  earth 
to  witness  that  the  nation  was  mined  and  our  liberties  at  an  end  !  But  all 
men  are  not  bom  to  be  heroes,  nor  all  men  candid,  just,  or  wise.  You,  my 
Lord,  have  imposed  long  enough  on  the  world;  your  &culties  have  been 
greatly  misjudged ;  your  organs  have  been  mistaken  for  talents,  your  £Eu:ility 
and  versatility  for  parts,  your  boldness  (I  could  give  it  a  harsher  name)  fitir 
knowledge,  and  your  precipitation  for  dispatch.  Ton  are  a  memorable  ex- 
ception to  the  general  rale  of  humanity,  for  years  and  exercise  have  not  en- 
dowed you  with  experience  or  wisdom,  and  you  possess,  together  with  the 
cold  heart  of  age,  the  hot  brain  of  rash  and  intemperate  youth.  Already 
hath  your  furious  prodigality  brought  this  nation  to  the  brink  of  ruin.  Do 
not  persist  in  your  impious  intention  to  accomplish  what  you  have  already 
well  nigh  performed.  Eetire  from  the  stage,  and  try  in  retirement  to  repent 
of  the  evils  you  have  brought  on  your  country.  If  your  proud  heart  cannot 
brook  the  idea  of  sincere  repr  atance,  let  the  repeated  defeats  which  yon  have 
lately  suffered  in  the  prosec%  tion  of  your  outrageous  designs  teach  yon  to 
assume  a  virtue  though  you  lave  it  not.  By  that  appearance  of  contrition, 
and  by  that  only,  you  may  soften  the  odium  which  must  attend  you  to  the 
grave,  and  alleviate  the  load  of  indignation  which  posterity  will  lay  on  you 
nemory. 

'*  Nfkva.  " 


CONDUCT  OF  CHIEF  XUSTICE   MAKSFIELr  323 

For  what  reason  Lord  Mansfield  laid  his  paper  upon  the 
table,  he  best  knows.  He  gave  none  to  the  House  of  Lords, 
except  that  he  thought  calling  them  together  was  the  most 
compendious  way  of  informing  them  where  each  lord  might, 
if  he  pleased,  procure  a  copy  of  his  charge  to  the  jury  in 
WoodMrs  cause.  This  was  the  whole,  for  he  made  no  mo- 
tion whatsoever,  nor  did  he  pretend  to  say  that,  in  their 
corporate  capacity  as  a  House  of  Peers,  they  could  take  the 
least  notice  of  the  paper.  Now,  Sir,  it  remains  with  Lord 
Mansfield  to  give  us  an  example,  if  he  can,  of  any  respec- 
table peer  having  ever  moved  for  a  call  of  the  House  for  so 
trifling,  so  nugatory,  so  ridiculous  a  purposd.  I  think  it 
strongly  deserves  these  epithets,  and  after  much  considera- 
tion I  can  find  but  one  possible  way  of  reconciling  the  fact 
with  the  cunning  understanding  of  the  man.  When  he  sum- 
moned the  House,  he  never  meant  to  do  what  he  afterwards 
did;  some  qualm,  some  terror  intervened,  and  forced  him 
hastily  to  alter  his  design,  and  to  substitute  a  silly,  absurd 
measure  in  the  place  of  a  dangerous  one.  As  for  his  having 
dared  Lord  ChatJiam  to  a  trial  of  his  doctrines,  I  should  be  glad 
to  know  by  whom  the  combat  was  refused.  Lord  Chatham 
attacked  him  directly  upon  the  spot,  and  on  the  very  next 
day  it  is  known  to  the  whole  world,  that  the  great  Lord 
Camden  addressed  him  in  the  following  words :  '*  I  consider 
the  paper  delivered  in  by  the  noble  Lord  upon  the  woolsack 
as  a  challenge  directed  personally  to  me,  and  I  accept  of  it ; 
— he  has  thrown  down  the  glove,  and  I  take  it  up.  In  direct 
contradiction  to  him,  I  maintain  that  his  doctrine  is  not  the 
law  of  England.  I  am  ready  to  enter  into  the  debate  when- 
ever the  noble  Lord  will  fix  a  day  for  it.  I  desire  and  insist 
that  it  may  be  an  early  one.*'  The  deviVs  in  it  if  this  be 
declining  the  trial;  but  what  was  the  consequence?  Lord 
Mansfield,  after  an  hour's  shuffling  and  evasion,  finding  him- 
self pushed  to  the  last  extremity,  cried  out  in  an  agony  of 
torture  and  despair,  No,  I  vtnll  not  fix  a  day — I  mil  not  pledge 
mysdf*. 

*  To  wbat  is  stated  in  the  Appendix  (vol.  i.  p.  473)  it  may  be  added  that 
Lord  Mansfield's  conduct,  on  the  occasion  referred  to  in  the  text,  was  the 
weakest  portion  of  his  public  jfe.  His  behaviour  was  pusilUnimons  in  the 
extreme,  and  evinced  such  want  of  firmness,  consistency,  and  legal  compe- 
to  maintain  kii  jodidal  dicta,  that  he  rendered  himself  an  object  of  pity^ 


324    MISCELLANEOUS  LETTEB8  ASCBinSD  TO  JUNIUS. 

As  to  Lord  Chatham's  declarations  concerning  the  irregular 
production  of  Lord  Mansfield's  opinion  in  the  Court  of  King's 
Bench,  I  am  sorry  to  say  that  your  correspondent  Nerva 
neither  knows  the  fact,  nor  understands  the  argument  He 
talks  of  a  judgment  in  a  cause  where  no  judgment  was  ever 
given.  Leaving  therefore  this  poor  man  to  his  own  unhappy 
reveries,  let  me  state  briefly  to  the  public  what  was  the  fact, 
and  what  was  the  irregularity  of  the  proceeding  upon  it.  j 

The  verdict  given  at  Nisi  Prius  in  the  King  and  Woodfall  i 
was,  guilty  of  printing  and  publishing  only*.  A  motion  in  \ 
arrest  of  judgment  was  made  by  the  defendant's  counsel, 
grounded  upon  the  ambiguity  of  the  verdict.  At  the  same 
time  a  motion  was  made  by  the  counsel  for  the  crown,  for  a 
rule  upon  the  defendant  to  show  cause  why  the  verdict 
should  not  be  entered  up  according  to  the  legal  import  of  the 
words.  On  both  motions  a  rule  to  show  cause  was  granted, 
and  soon  after  the  matter  was  argued  before  the  Court  of 
King's  Bench.  Lord  Mansfield,  when  he  delivered  the 
opinion  of  the  court  upon  the  verdict,  went  regularly  through 

almost  contempt,  to  the  House  of  Lords.  Horace  Walpole,  who  witnessed 
the  scene,  says^  *'  The  dismay  and  confusion  of  Lord  Mansfield  were  obvioos 
to  the  whole  audience ;  nor  did  one  peer  interpose  a  syllable  in  his  behalf." 
He  was  so  closely  pressed  on  the  point  that  he  would  not  answer  "  interroga- 
tories *'  by  Lords  Chatham  and  Bichmond,  that  the  House  became  desirous 
the  matter  should  drop,  from  commiseration  of  the  embarrassment  of  the 
Chief  Justice,  and  it  was  never  resumed.  Next  morning  Lord  Chatham  sent 
a  note  to  Lord  Camden  complimenting  him  on  his  triumph,  and  inquiring 
after  his  health,  and  adding,  "  I  think  I  ought  rather  to  inquire  how  Lord 
Mansfield  does/' — Lives  of  the  CM^  Jiutices,  vol.  ii  p.  489. 

Lord  Campbell,  in  his  report  of  the  scene,  omits  the  two  last  questions  of 
Lord  Camden. — Ed. 

*  The  whole  of  this  paragraph  is  taken  hj  Junius  frt>m  a  speech  of  Lord 
Chatham,  delivered  December  11, 1770,  that  is,  a  few  days  before  it  appeared 
in  the  Pvhlic  Advertiser,  Junius  long  after,  in  his  Fre&oe,  quotes  the  same 
passage,  introducing  it  with  a  note  which  was  accidentally  omitted  in  its  pro- 
per place,  p.  95  of  vol.  i.,  and  acknowledges  it  to  be  from  a  speech  of  Lord 
Chatham,  and  which,  in  his  letter  under  the  signature  of  PhoUaris,  he  omits. 
*'  The  following  quotation,"  says  he,  "from  a  speech  delivered  by  Lord  Chat- 
ham, is  taken  with  exactness.  The  reader  will  find  it  very  curious  in  itself, 
and  fit  to  be  inserted  here."  He  then  gives  the  extract  verbatim,  as  in  the 
above  paragraph.  It  became  .important  afterwards,  as  one  of  the  meaos  oi 
identifying  Sir  Philip  Francis  to  be  Junius,  it  being  known  that  Francis  re- 
ported several  of  Lord  Chatham's  speeches  and  gave  copies  to  Almon,  and  iB 
consequence  was  a  good  judge  of  the  one  "taken  with  exactness."— -£01 


LETTER  OF  DOITITUN.  325 

the  whole  of  the  proceedings  at  Nisi  Prius,  as  well  the  evi- 
dence that  had  been  given  as  his  own  charge  to  the  jury. 
This  proceeding  would  have  been  very  proper  had  a  motion 
been  made  of  either  side  for  a  new  trial,  because  either  a 
verdict  given  contrary  to  evidence,  or  an  improper  charge  by 
the  judge  at  Nisi  Frius,  is  held  to  be  a  sufficient  ground  for 
granting  a  new  trial ;  but  when  a  motion  is  made  in  arrest  of 
judgment,  or  for  establishing  the  verdict,  by  entering  it  up 
according  to  the  legal  import  of  the  words,  it  must  be  on  the 
ground  of  something  appearing  on  the  record ;  and  the  court, 
in  considering  whether  the  verdict  shall  be  established  or  not, 
are  so  confined  to  the  record  that  they  cannot  take  notice  of 
anything  that  does  not  appear  on  the  face  of  it;  to  make 
use  of  the  legal  phrase,  they  cannot  travel  out  of  the  re- 
cord. Lord  Mansfield  did  travel  out  of  the  record.  I  affirm 
therefore  with  Lord  Chatham,  that  his  conduct  was  irregular^ 
extrajvdicial.  and  unprecedented ;  and  I  am  sure  there  is  not  a 
lawyer  in  England  that  will  contradict  me.  His  real  motive 
for  doing  what  he  knew  to  be  wrong  was,  that  he  might  have 
an  opportunity  of  telling  the  public  extrajudicially,  that  the 
other  three  judges  agreed  with  him  in  the  doctrine  laid  down 
in  his'  charge. 

When  you  have  read  this  paper,  I  am  sure  you  will  join 
with  me  in  opinion,  that  to  support  an  uniform  system  of 
falsehood,  requires  greater  parts  than  even  those  of  Lord 
Mansfield. 

PHALARIS. 


LETTER  LXXXIII. 

TO   THE   PRINTER  OF  THE   PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 
Sib,  December  24,  1770. 

Without  attempting  to  account  for  all  the  political  changes 
which  have  happened  since  his  Majesty's  auspicious  accession 
to  the  throne,  it  requires  but  little  sagacity  to  observe  that 
the  general  principle  from  which  they  have  arisen  is  uniform 
and  consistent  with  itself.  A  prince  of  the  house  of  Bruns- 
wick searches  for  the  consolation  and  endearments  of  privste 


326  MTSCZLUiKEOUS   USTTEBS  ASCBIBED   TO  JUKI  78. 

sociality  and  friendsbip  iu  the  lojal  hearts  of  Jacobites,  Tories, 
and  Scotchmen:  a  devout  prince,  whose  sincere  unaffected 
piety  would  have  done  honour  even  to  Charles  the  First,  in 
trusts  the  public  government  of  his  affairs  to  Grafton,  North, 
Halifax,  and  Sandwich.  The  first  choice  naturally  led  to 
the  second.  The  private  convivial  hours  of  Jonathan  Wild 
were  happily  unbent  in  the  company  of  the  lower  adepts  in 
pilfering*  and  petty  larceny.  In  public  he  resumed  his  state, 
and  never  appeared  without  an  attendant  knot  of  highway- 
men and  assassins. 

I  congratulate  this  country  upon  the  return  of  the  Earl  of 
Sandwich  to  a  station  in  which  he  has  heretofore  given  com- 
plete satisfaction  to  his  royal  master*.  It  is  the  more  pleas- 
ing because  it  was  unexpected.  A  gracious  and  a  truly  reli- 
gious prince  had  often  declared  that  this  was  the  only  man 
in  his  dominions  whom  he  never  would  suffer  to  enter  the 
cabinet.  He  was  tender  of  the  morals  of  his  ministers,  and 
the  Bedfords  had  delicacy  enough  to  acquiesce  in  the  truth 
of  the  objection.  I  feel  for  his  Majesty's  distress.  To  what 
a  melancholy  condition  must  he  be  reduced,  when  he  is  forced 
to  apply  to  the  Earl  of  Sandwich  as  the  last  resource,  the 
only  prop  remaining  to  stop  the  fall  of  government?  Lord 
Weymouth,  it  seems,  retires  perfectly  satisfied,  and  deter- 
mined to  support  men  and  measures  as  vigorously  as  if  he 
had  continued  in  employment.  Good-humoured  creature! 
What  a  pity  it  is  that  he  cannot  submit  to  the  drudgery  of 
receiving  seven  thousand  pounds  a  year !  The  King  press4)s 
him  to  accept  of  some  other  post,  where  there  is  neither 
labour  nor  responsibility ;  anything,  in  short,  provided  he  will 
not  fling  the  public  mortification  upon  his  royal  master  of 
quitting  his  service  at  so  critical  a  conjuncture.  Still  he 
resists ;  still  he  refuses ;  but  though  he  quits  all  connection 
with  ministers  and  their  practices,  it  is  impossible  to  inter- 
rupt his  complacency  and  good-humour.  By  this  nobleman's 
retreat  the  nation  has  made  some  capital  acquisitions.  To 
say  nothing  of  my  Lord  Sandwich,  what  do  you  think  of  the 
amiable  Mr.  Bamber  Gascoyne,  and  that  well-educated,  gen- 

*  The  oflSce  of  Foreign  Minigter,  vacant  by  the  remoTal  of  the  Bad  of 
Roehfcrd  to  the  Home  Department,  and  which,  before  its  occnpadon  by  tilt 
lutcr,  bad  been  Md  for  two  or  three  years  by  Lord  Yisconnt  Weymoatk 


A  CUBIOUS  NAEEATrVt.  327 

teel  joung  broker,  Mr  Ohamier^'?  The  first  is  to  thunder 
in  the  senate ;  the  second,  in  quality  of  secretaiy,  is  to  direct 
the  most  secret  and  important  manoeuvres  of  goyemment. 
Well  done,  mj  Lord  Sandwich !  Your  company,  1 11  be  sworn, 
ydll  be  no  reproach  to  you.  But  was  there  no  employment 
to  be  found  for  Tommy  Bradshaw's  sister  f  as  well  as  his 
brother-in-law  ?  She  too  understands  the  disposal  of  places ; 
at  least  his  fraternal  affection  has  given  her  the  credit  of  it 

Give  me  leave,  Mr.  Woodfall,  to  ask  you  a  serious  question. 
How  long  do  you  think  it  possible  for  this  management  to 
last  ?  How  long  is  this  great  country  to  be  governed  by  a  boot 
and  a  petticoat? — ^by  the  infiEimous  tools  of  a  Scotch  exile,  and 
her  Boyal  Highness  the  Princess  Dowager  of  Wales? — ^by 
North,  Ellis,  Barrington,  Jenkinson,  Hillsborough,  Jerry  Dy- 
son, and  Sandwich?  X  will  answer  you  with  precision.  It 
vnll  last  until  there  is  a  general  insurrection  of  the  English 
nation,  or  until  the  house  of  Bourbon  have  collected  their, 
strength  and  strike  you  to  the  heart. 

DOMITIAN. 

P.S.  Tell  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  that  if  he  should  dare  to 
entertain  the  most  distant  thought  of  the  Admiralty,  the 
whole  affair  of  Hine's  patent  shall  be  revived  and  pub- 
lished, with  an  accumulation  of  evidence.  He  at  least  shall 
be  kept  under.  His  Ciceronian  eloquence  shall  not  save 
him. 


LETTER  LXXXIV. 

For  the  PvbUe  Advertiser. 

December  20, 1770. 
A  CARD. 

Phalaris  presents  his  compliments  to  Sir ,  is 

preparing  for  the  press  a  fiEdthful  account  of  Mr.  Justioe^s 
amours  with  the  Lady  Williams ;  and,  as  he  wishes  not  to  give 

*  Chamier  wai  afterwards  appointed  ehief  secretary  to  Lord  Bairingtoij, 
through  the  interest  of  Mr.  Bradshaw  and  his  master,  the  Duke  of  Gbafton, 
at  that  time  again  in  administration,  as  Lord  Privy  Seal.  See  Private  Let 
ten^  Nos.  52  and  56. 

t  See  Miscellaneous  Letleny  lXv».  71,  awU*   .  299*  and  74,  p.  S05. 


828  MISCELLANEOUS   LETTERS   ASCRIBED   TO  JUNIIT8. 

a  plain  narrative  too  much  the  air  of  a  romance,  would  be  verf 
glad  to  be  furnished  with  any  material  facts  which  Mr.  Justice 
may  think  proper  to  have  inserted :  but  in  order  not  to  give 
Mr.  Justice  any  unnecessary  trouble,  Phalaris  thinks  it  proper 
to  apprise  him  of  those  circumstances,  in  which  he  {Phalaris) 
is  already  particularly  instructed,  viz.,  how  Mr.  Justice  was 
distressed  for  want  of  practice ;  how  he  was  impatient  at  try- 
ing a  long  cause  in  a  hot  day  at  Hereford ;  how  he  made  a 
declaration  at  a  public  dinner,  confirmed  by  execrations,  that 
he  would  marry  the  devil  with  money,  rather  than  practise  the 
law  without  it;  how  he  was  introduced  to  Lady  Williams; 
how,  upon  sufficient  deliberation,  he  preferred  her  ladyship  to 
the  devil ;  how  he  explained  his  tender  passion ;  how,  with 
a  gallant  impatience,  he  hastened  the  marriage  ceremony  be- 
fore he  saw  the  writings  of  her  estate ;  how  he  stepped  into  a 
hackney  coach,  one  fine  morning,  in  a  suit  of  white  cloth  lined 
with  green  velvet ;  how  he  had  a  levee  of  visitors  at  his  gate 
the  day  after  his  auspicious  nuptials;  how  Lady  Williams 
complained  next  morning ;  how  she  retired  to  her  country  seat 
near  Hereford ;  how  Mr.  Justice  pursued  her  in  company  with 
a  certain  strong  lady  with  a  strait  waistcoat ;  how  both  parties, 
with  great  cordiality,  signed  articles  of  separation ;  and  how 
Mr.  Justice  retired  to  Ireland,  without  taking  leave  of  his 
friends. 

Phalaris  hopes  Mr.  Justice  will  have  no  objection  to  the 
following  motto : 

Felices  ter,  et  amplias, 
Qnos  irrupta  tenet  copula. 


LETTER  LXXXV. 
For  the  Pvhlic  Advertiser, 

INTELLIGENCE  EXTRAORDINARY. 

January  9,  1771. 
Sir  Edward  Hawke  resigned  this  morning.     The  Earl  of 
Sandwich  is  to  succeed  to  the  Admiralty.     His  Majesty,  who 
judges  of  men  by  their  moral  characters,  has  discovered  at  last 
that  this  nobleman  is  as  well  qualified  for  one  post  as  another 


THE   OBOBTEKOB   OARl  829 

Hifl  religion  woald  do  honour  to  a  mitre.  If  he  wwe  Arch 
bishop  of  Canterbury,  the  Princess  Dowager  of  Wales  could 
not  do  better  than  make  him  her  father  confessor.  In  the 
spirit  of  primitive  Christianity,  they  might  confess  to  one 
another.  Who  is  to  be  secretary  of  state  is  not  yet  known, 
for  we  all  agree  that  Lord  Suffolk  *  has  too  much  sense  and 
spirit  to  prostitute  his  virgin  character  in  such  a  *******  as 
St.  James's.  When  a  beautiful  woman  yields  to  temptation,  let 
her  consult  her  pride,  though  she  forgets  her  virtue.  To  be  cor 
rupted  by  such  a  maquereau  as  Whately  would  turn  the  appe 
tite  of  Moll  Flanders.  This  poor  man,  with  the  talents  of  an 
attorney,  sets  up  for  an  ambassador,  and  with  the  agility  of 
Colonel  Bodens,  undertakes  to  be  a  courier.  Indeed,  Tom ! 
you  have  betrayed  yourself  too  soon.  Mr.  Grenville,  your 
friend,  your  patron,  your  benefactor,  who  raised  you  from  a 
depth  compared  to  which  even  Bradshaw's  family  stands  on 
an  eminence,  was  hardly  cold  in  his  grave  when  you  solicited 
the  office  of  go-between  to  Lord  North.  You  could  not,  in  my 
eyes,  be  more  contemptible,  though  you  were  convicted  (as  I 
dare  say  you  might  be)  of  having  constantly  betrayed  him  in 
his  lifetime.  Since  I  know  your  employment,  be  assured  I 
shall  watch  you  attentively.  Every  journey  you  undertake, 
every  message  you  carry,  shall  be  immediately  laid  before  the 
public.  The  event  of  your  ingenious  management  will  be 
this — that  Lord  North,  finding  you  cannot  serve  him,  will  give 
you  nothing.  From  the  other  party,  you  have  just  as  much 
detestation  to  expect  as  can  be  united  with  the  profoundest 
contempt.    Tom  Whately,  take  care  of  yourself !  t 


LETTER  LXXXVI. 

TO   THE   PRINTER  OF  THE   PUBLIO   ADVERTISER. 

Sib,  January  11,  1771. 

Your  correspondent  W,  is  equally  unfortunate  in  his  attaci 
upon  Junius  and  his  defence  of  Lord  Mansfield.  Junius  does 
not  enter  into  the  particular  merits  of  the  Grosvenor  cause, 

*  See  Miscellaneous  Letters,  Nob.  96,  port,  p.  868,  and  97,  p.  379, 
f  Mr  Whately  bad  been  private  secretary  t«  Mr.  G.  Qrenville. 


830  MISGEIXANEOUS   LETTERS  ASOfilBED   TO  JUNIUS. 

Dut  Strikes  at  the  general  doctrine  delivered  by  the  judge  in 
his  charge  to  the  jury ;  viz.,  that  in  a  prosecution  for  criminai 
conversation^  the  jury,  when  they  assess  the  damages,  are  not  to 
regard  the  quality  and  fortune  of  the  parties,  but  are  to  con-, 
sider  the  question  abstractedly  as  a  question  between  A.  and  B. 
If  this  doctrine  be  true  in  one  instance,  it  will  be  applicable 
k)  every  case  of  criminal  conversation;  and  the  conse- 
quences of  it  will  be,  that  a  nobleman  with  ten  thousand  a 
year  shall  pay  no  greater  damages  than  a  peasant  who  labours 
for  a  shilling  a  day ;  or,  vice  versd,  that  the  seduction  of  a 
duchess  and  of  a  milliner  stand  upon  the  same  footing,  in  re- 
gard to  the  compensation  due  to  the  injured  husband.  In  a 
moral  view,  I  confess,  the  crime  is  the  same.  The  punish- 
ment annexed  to  it,  though  not  matter  of  positive  law,  cannot 
be  regulated  by  the  rules  of  morality.  It  must  depend  on 
custom,  reputation,  and  the  circumstances  of  the  case.  The 
equity  of  the  verdict  must  be  measured  by  the  distinctions  of 
rank  and  fortune,  admitted  and  established  in  society,  since  it 
is  evident  that  the  penalty  or  satisfaction  sufficient  for  one 
man  might  hardly  be  felt  by  another.  It  is  the  general 
doctrine  of  Lord  Mansfield  which  Junius  very  truly  calls  false 
and  absurd ;  and  I  know  that  it  was  received  in  Westminster 
Hall  with  universal  shame  and  astonishment. 

As  to  the  idea  of  Lord  Mansfield's  inclining  to  favour  Lord 
Grosvenor,  it  is  so  preposterously  false  and  ridiculous  that  it 
would  be  entirely  undeserving  of  notice,  but  for  one  conside- 
ration, viz.,  that,  if  it  were  true,  it  stabs  the  Chief  Justice  to 
the  heart  Lord  Mansfield  is  charged  with  gross  and  infamous 
partiality  to  the  defendant ;  the  defence  made  for  him  is,  that 
he  was  grossly  and  infamously  partial  to  the  plaintiff.  Let 
his  friends  take  their  choice.  Every  honest  man  will  equally 
despise  and  detest  such  a  judge,  whichever  way  his  bad 
passions  incline  him. 

As  to  the  merits  of  the  Grosvenor  cause,  they  are  of  no 
consequence  in  the  present  question.  If  it  be  necessary, 
however,  I  am  ready  to  maintain  that  the  verdict  was  supported 
by  the  evidence,  and  the  damages  veiy  moderate.  If  not,  why 
did  not  Mansfield  order  a  new  trial  ?  When  time,  and  place* 
and  circumstance  are  proved,  there  remains  but  one  possible 
plea  for  the  Duke  of  Cumberland;  and  that,  by  the  by,  is 
rather  a  whimsical  one,  applied  to  a  boy  of  ooe-and-twen^. 


SIB  EDWABD  HAWKE*S  BESfOHATION.  931 

let,  for  aught  I  know,  it  may  be  veiy  trae,  that,  with  all  his 
attention  to  ih^  dear  little  hair,  he  was  incapable  of  taking 
tbe  fairest  opportunity  by  the  forelock. 

ANTI-W. 


LETTER  LXXXVII 

TO   THE  PBIMTEB  OF  THE  FUBLIO   ADTEBTISKB. 

Sir,  January,  17, 1771. 

If  Sir  Edward  Hawke  had  followed  the  advice  and  example 
of  his  friends,  he  would  not  have  been  reduced  to  the  dis- 
honourable necessity  of  quitting  the  direction  of  the  English 
navy,  at  the  very  moment  it  is  going  to  be  employed  against 
the  foreign  enemies  of  England.  To  be  left  in  employment 
after  Chatham,  Granby,  and  Camden  had  retired;  to  con- 
tinue in  it  in  company  with  Grafton,  North,  Gower,  and 
Hillsborough;  and  at  Letst  to  be  succeeded  by  Lord  Sand- 
wich, are  circumstances  too  disgraceful  to  admit  of  aggrava- 
tion. It  is  natural  to  sympathise  in  the  distresses  of  a  brave 
man,  and  to  lament  that  a  noble  estate  of  reputation  should 
be  squandered  away  in  debts  of  dishonour  contracted  with 
sharpers. 

His  Majesty,  God  bless  him:  has  now  got  rid  of  every  man 
whose  former  services  or  present  scruples  could  be  supposed 
to  give  offence  to  her  Koyal  Highness  the  Princess  Dowager  of 
Wales.  The  security  of  our  civil  and  religious  liberties  can- 
not be  more  happily  provided  for  than  while  Lord  Mansfield 
pronounces  the  law,  and  Lord  Sandwich  represents  the  reli- 
gion of  St.  James's.  Such  law  and  such  religion  are  too 
closely  united  to  suffer  even  a  momentary  intervention  of 
common  honesty  between  them.  Her  Boyal  Highnesses  scheme 
of  government,  formed  long  before  her  husband's  death,  is  now 
accomplished.  She  has  succeeded  in  disuniting  every  party, 
and  dissolving  every  connection ;  and,  by  the  mere  influence 
of  the  crown,  has  formed  an  administration,  such  as  it  is,  out 
of  the  refuse  of  them  all.  There  are  two  leading  principles 
in  the  politics  of  St.  James's,  which  will  account  for  almost 
every  measure  of  government  since  the  King's  accession.  The 
AzBt  it,  that  the  prerogative  is  sufficient  to  make  a  lacquey  h 


832  MISCELLANEOUS   LETTERS   ASCBIBED   TO  JITlffltTB. 

prime  minister,  and  to  maintain  him  in  that  post,  without 
any  regard  to  the  welfare  or  to  the  opinion  of  the  people, 
rhe  second  is,  that  none  but  persons  insignificant  in  them- 
selves, or  of  tainted  reputation,  should  be  brought  into  em- 
ployment. Men  of  greater  consequence  and  abilities  will  have 
opinions  of  their  own,  and  will  not  submit  to  the  meddling, 
unnatural  ambition  of  a  mother  who  grasps  at  unlimited 
power,  at  the  hazard  of 'her  son's  destruction.  They  will  not 
suffer  measures  of  public  utility,  which  have  been  resolved 
upon  in  council,  to  be  checked  and  controlled  by  a  secret  in- 
fluence in  the  closet.  Such  men  consequently  will  never  be 
called  upon  but  in  cases  of  extreme  necessity.  When  that 
ceases,  they  find  their  places  no  longer  tenable.  To  answer 
the  purposes  of  an  ambitious  woman,  an  administration  must 
be  formed  of  more  pliant  materials— of  men,  who,  having  no 
connection  with  each  other,  no  personal  interest,  no  weight  or 
consideration  with  the  people,  may  separately  depend  upon 
the  smiles  of  the  crown  alone  for  their  advancement  to  high 
offices,  and  for  their  continuance  there.  If  such  men  resist 
the  Princess  Dowager's  pleasure,  his  Majesty  knows  that  he 
may  dismiss  them  without  risking  anything  from  their  resent- 
ment. His  wisdom  suggests  to  him  that,  if  he  were  to  choose 
his  ministers  for  any  of  those  qualities  which  might  entitle 
them  to  public  esteem,  the  nation  might  take  part  with  them, 
and  resent  their  dismission.  As  it  is,  whenever  he  changes 
his  servants,  he  is  sure  to  have  the  people,  in  that  instance,  of 
his  side. 

I  love  and  respect  our  gracious  Sovereign  too  much  to  sup- 
pose it  possible  that  he  should  be  anything  more  than  passive 
in  forming  and  supporting  such  a  system  of  government ;  and 
even  this  acquiescence  of  the  best  of  princes  I  am  ready  to 
attribute  to  a  most  amiable  quality  implanted  in  him  by  na- 
ture, and  carefully  cultivated  by  art — unlimited  duty  and 
obedience  to  his  dear  mother.  Few  nations  are  in  the  predi- 
cament that  we  are,  to  have  nothing  to  complain  of  but  thn 
filial  virtues  of  our  sovereign.  Charles  the  First  had  the 
same  implicit  attachment  to  his  spouse ;  but  his  worthy 
parent  was  in  her  grave.  It  were  to  be  wished  that  the 
parallel  held  good  in  all  the  cirenmstances. 

In  respect  to  her  Eoyal  Highness,  I  shall  deliver  mj 
sentiments  without  any  false  tenderness  or  reserve.    I  coii 


PfilKGBJS  DOWAGER  OF  WATJS8.  889 

rider  her  not  only  as  the  original  creating  cause  of  the  shame- 
ful and  deplorable  condition  of  this  country,  but  as  a  being 
whose  operation  is  uniform  and  permanent;  who  watches, 
with  a  kind  of  providential  malignity,  oyer  the  work  of  her 
hands,  to  correct;  improve,  and  preserve  it.  If  the  strongest 
appearances  may  be  relied  on,  this  lady  has  now  brought  her 
schemes  to  perfection.  Every  office  in  government  is  filled 
with  men  wno  are  known  to  be  her  creatures,  or  by  mere 
cyphers  incapable  of  resistance.  Is  it  conceivable  that  any- 
thing, less  than  a  determined  plan  of  drawing  the  whole 
power  of  the  crown  into  her  own  hands,  could  have  collected 
such  an  administration  as  the  present?  Who  is  Lord  North? 
The  son  of  a  poor  unknown  earl,  who  four  years  ago  wa? 
a  needy  commissioner  of  the  treasury  for  the  benefit  of  a 
subsistence,  and  who  would  have  accepted  a  commission  of 
hackney  coaches  upon  the  same  terms.  The  politics  of  Carlton 
House,  finances  picked  up  in  Mr.  Grenville's  anti-chamber, 
and  the  elocution  of  a  Demosthenes,  endeavouring  to  speak 
plain  with  pebbles  in  his  mouth,  form  the  stuffing  of  that 
figure  that  calls  itself  minister,  that  does  homage  to  the 
Princess  Dowager,  and  says,  Mctdam,  I  am  your  man. 

The  stage  was  deprived  of  a  promising  actor  when  poor 
Lord  Hillsborough  gave  his  mind  to  politics.  Tet  his  thea- 
trical talents  have  been  of  use  to  his  fortune.  The  Princess 
Dowager  saw  what  part  this  man  was  capable  of  acting ;  and 
with  regard  to  himself,  it  signified  but  little  whether  he  re- 
presented Prince  Volscius  at  Drury-lane,  or  secretary  of  state 
at  St.  James  8. 

It  is  net  pretended  that  Lord  Bochford's  abilities  are  of  the 
explicit  kind.  Yet  from  a  chargS  d'affaires  at  Turin,  the  all- 
powerful  guiding  hand  has  raised  him  to  be  secretary  of  state. 
The  Princess  Dowager  knows,  better  than  we  do,  what  posi- 
tive good  qualities  this  nobleman  possesses.  The  public  only 
knows  that  he  is  a  mute  in  the  House  of  Lords,  and  th&t  he 
is  destitute  of  fortune,  interest,  and  connections.  To  do  him 
]ustice,  he  has  all  the  negative  qualifications  that  constitute 
merit  at  Carlton  House. 

The  character  of  third  secretary  is  not  yet  disposed  of. 
Public  suspicion  gives  Lord  Hillsborough  a  formidable  rival. 
At  the  opening  of  the  theatre  young  Suffolk  is  to  be  produced 
prince  Prettyman  can  cant  very  near  as  well  aa  Prince  Vol- 


9S4         MISCELLANEOUS  LETTEBS  ASCRIBED  TO  JUNIUS. 

sdus.  Such  a  pair  of  actors  make  tragedy  ridiculous.  Oui 
enemies  at  least  will  lai^h  at  the  catastrophe.  But  this 
young  man  shall  be  left  for  abler  hands.  It  requires  no 
vulgar  pen  to  do  justice  to  such  a  strain  of  monstrous  pros 
titution. 

Why  is  that  wretched  creature  Lord  Townshend  main- 
tained in  Ireland?  Is  it  not  universally  known  that  the 
ignorance,  presumption »  and  incapacity  of  that  man  have 
ruined  the  King  s  affairs  in  Ireland  ? — that  he  has,  in  a  great 
measure,  destroyed  the  political  dependance  of  that  country 
upon  Great  Britain  ?  But  he  too  is  an  unconnected  being, 
without  any  hope  of  support  but  in  the  protection  of  Lord 
Bute  and  the  Princess  Dowager. 

Why  is  not  a  commander-in-chief  appointed?  Because 
there  is  an  insignificant  secretary  at  war»  who  has  no  chance 
of  continuing  in  the  receipt  of  2500/.  a  year,  but  by  making 
himself  the  instrument  tlux)ugh  which  the  Princess  Dowager 
disposes  of  every  valuable  commission  in  the  army. 

Why  have  we  not  a  master-general  of  the  ordnance? 
Because  the  gentle  Conway  knows  how  to  be  as  pliant  as 
Lord  Barrington. 

Why  is  there  no  chancellor?  Partly  because  there  is  a 
convenience  in  bribing  four  of  the  judges  with  the  emolu- 
ments of  that  office,  and  partly  because  no  man  of  credit  in 
the  profession  will  submit  to  act  with  the  present  infiEunous 
administration. 

What  merit  has  Lord  Halifax? — ^The  issue  of  general 
warrants ;  the  opposition  of  his  privilege  for  years  together 
to  the  laws  of  his  country ;  prostitution  in  private  life,  and 
poverty  in  the  extreme. 

Why  is  the  King  so  fond  of  having  Lord  Bristol  about  hi$ 
person  f  If  the  duties  of  the  noble  Lord's  office  had  a  closer 
connection  with  the  title  of  it,  as  usually  pronounced,  I  should 
understand  his  Majesty,  and  admire  his  attention  in  paying 
so  delicate  a  compliment  to  his  Lordship's  amours.  The  last 
question  I  would  ask  is,  by  what  kind  of  service  or  ability  the 
Earl  of  Sandwich  is  distinguished?  Prostitution  and  poverty 
may  be  found  in  other  subjects,  and  appearances  saved  by  a 
decent  formality  of  behaviour.  The  choice  and  preference  of 
the  most  profligate  character  in  the  kingdom  may  suit  well 
enough  with  the  substantial  purposes  of  Carlton  House,  but 


PBINCKSS  DOWAOEB  OF  WALES.  335 

I 

BOW  does  it  consist  with  the  hypocritical  decomm  of  3aint 
James's?  What  opinion  are  we  to  entertain  of  the  juety, 
chastity,  and  integrity  of  the  best  of  princes,  when,  in  the 
face  of  England,  and  of  all  Earope,  he  takes  such  a  man  as 
Sandwich  to  his  bosom !  Let  us  hear  no  more  of  the  piety  of 
Saint  James's.  To  talk  of  morals  or  devotion  in  such  company 
is  a  scandalous  insult  to  common  sense,  and  a  still  more  scan- 
lalous  mockery  of  religion. 

The  Princess  Dowager  having  now  carried  her  plan  of 
administration  into  effect,  it  is  not  to  be  wondered  that  she 
should  be  very  unwilling  to  expose  herself  and  her  schemes 
to  the  uncertain  events  of  a  foreign  war.  She  knows  that  a 
disaster  abroad  would  not  only  defeat  the  cunning  plan  of 
female  avarice  and  ambition,  but  that  it  might  reach  further. 
The  mothers  of  our  kings  have  heretofore  been  impeached; 
and  if  the  precedents  are  not  so  complete  as  they  should  be, 
they  require  and  will  admit  of  improvement. 

To  maintain  this  lady  in  hei*  present  state  of  power  and 
security,  there  is  no  insult,  no  indignity,  to  which  the  King  ol 
Britain  must  not  submit — no  condition,  however  humiliating, 
which  the  King  and  the  nation  must  not  accept  of  without 
resentment.  At  this  point,  however,  her  cunning  forsakes 
her.  Both  she  and  her  ministers  deceive  themselves  grossly, 
if  they  imagine  that  any  concessions  can  secure  peace  with  an 
enemy  determined  upon  war.  She  may  disgrace  the  English 
nation.  She  may  dishonour  her  son,  and  persuade  him  to 
forfeit  his  right  to  precedence  among  the  sovereigns  of  Europe. 
The  man  who  receives  a  blow,  and  does  not  return  it  (whether 
he  be  a  king  or  a  private  person),  from  that  moment  stands 
degraded  from  his  natural  rank  and  condition.  If  he  be  a 
young  man,  his  infamy  is  immortal.  Yet  I  am  ready  to 
confess  that  where  two  nations  upon  the  whole  are  peaceably 
disposed,  there  is  a  degree  of  slight,  and  ill  humour,  and  even 
of  injury,  which,  for  the  sake  of  peace,  may  and  ought  to  be 
dissembled;  but  a  direct,  positive,  intended  insult  must 
always  be  resented.  To  flatter  ourselves  that  the  moderation 
of  the  Spaniards  will  be  proportioned  to  our  forbearance,  or 
that,  because  we  have  submitted  tamely  to  one  afiEront,  they 
will  therefore  avoid  offering  us  a  second,  would  be  arguing  in 
contradiction  to  all  reason  and  experience.  If  Falkland 
Island  had  never  existed,  the  rancour  of  the  Spaniards  woula 


386         MISOELLANEOtS  liJSTTEnS  ASCRIBED   TO  JUNIUS. 

not  hhYO  failed  to  discover  itself  in  some  other  mode  of  hosti* 
lity.  Their  whole  history,  since  the  accession  of  Philip  the 
Fifth,  is  a  continued  proof  of  a  rooted  antipathy  to  the  name 
of  Englishman ;  and  I  am  justified,  hya  series  of  indisputable 
fSftcts,  in  affirming  that,  from  the  Treaty  of  Utrecht  to  this  hour, 
there  has  never  been  a  single  instance  of  common  justice  or 
decency,  much  less  of  cordiality  or  friendship,  in  the  conduct 
of  the  court  of  Madrid  towards  this  country.  Lord  Sandwich 
declared  a  month  ago  in  full  parliament,  that  Gibraltar  was  a 
place  of  no  consequence,  and  immediately  afterwards  the 
Princess  Dowager  makes  him  secretary  of  state.  Whoever 
compares  the  sale  of  Dunkirk  with  this  nobleman's  character, 
must  be  very  much  of  a  sceptic,  if  he  entertains  any  doubt 
about  the  fate  of  Gibraltar.  But  neither  this  sacrifice,  nor 
even  that  of  Jamaica,  would  be  sufficient  to  produce  a  solid, 
permanent  union  with  Spain.  They  may  despise  us  more, 
but  they  will  never  hate  us  less. 

By  the  Princess  Dowager's  management,  instead  of  avoid- 
ing a  War,  we  make  it  certain.  A  little  spirit  at  first  might 
perhaps  have  intimidated  the  Spaniards.  Our  notorious  weak- 
ness aud  shameful  submission  have  only  served  to  encourage 
and  confirm  them  in  their  resolution.  In  point  of  honour 
we  have  let  the  proper  moment  of  resentment  pass  away. 
The  royal  and  national  honour  is  so  irretrievably  stained,  that 
it  cannot  now  be  recovered  by  the  most  vigorous  measures  of 
revenge.  From  her  Eoyal  Highness's  government  in  time  of 
peace,  we  may  well  conclude  in  what  manner  she  will  conduct 
a  war.  Gifted  as  she  is,  she  could  hardly  fail  of  success,  if 
the  quarrels  of  nations  bore  any  resemblance  to  domestic 
feuds,  or  could  be  conducted  upon  the  same  principles.  The 
genius  of  Queen  Elizabeth  united  the  nation,  coUected  the 
strength  of  the  people,  and  carried  it  forward  to  resistance 
and  victory.  When  the  demon  of  discord  sits  at  the  helm, 
what  have  we  to  expect  but  distraction  and  civil  war  at  home, 
disgrace  aud  infamy  abroad? 

DOMITIAN. 


DISPUTE   ON  THE   FALKLAND   ISLAND.  337 


LETTER  LXXXVIII. 

TO  THE   PRINTER  OF  THE   PUBLIC   ADTEBTISEB. 

Sib,  February  13, 1771. 

[  BEAD  with  astonishment,  and  no  small  indignation,  a  letter 
whjch  is  at  last  got  into  your  paper ;  I  mean  that  from  Lord 
Weymouth  to  Mr.  Harris  *.  The  copy  which  you  have  procured 

*  This  letter  refers  to  the  much-agitated  dispute  concerning  the  Malooine, 
or  Falkland's  Islands,  which,  without  any  formal  recognition,  had,  for  many 
years  after  their  first  occupation  by  Captain  Byron  in  1765,  been  quietly 
buffered  by  Spain  to  remain  in  the  hands  of  his  Britannic  Majesty,  who  had 
erected  a  small  fort  on  the  coast  of  the  chief  of  them,  named  Port  Egmont. 
In  June,  1769,  however,  without  any  complaint  or  notice  on  the  part  of  the 
Spanish  government  to  the  court  of  St  James's,  a  forcible  debarkation  was 
effected  on  the  coast  of  Port  Egmont,  by  a  Spanish  armament  from  Port 
Solidad  in  Buenos  Ayres ;  the  whole  mass  of  islands  was  claimed  by  the 
commander  of  the  expedition*  in  the  name  of  his  Most  Catholic  Majesty, 
whose  right  was  fonnally  asserted  to  the  whole  Magellanic  region;  the 
small  body  of  English  troops  stationed  at  Port  Egmont  was  compelled  to 
snbmit,  and  turned  adrift  from  the  island  in  two  English  frigates  which 
chanced  to  be  in  the  harbour,  to  mnke  the  best  of  their  voyage  home,  and 
relate  the  history  of  this  extraordinary  adventure. 

The  English  ministry  heard  the  account  with  indignation ;  and  the  letter 
from  Lord  Weymouth  to  Mr.  Harris,  the  resident  minister  at  the  court  of 
Madrid,  referred  to  above^  was  the  result.  The  court  of  Madrid  had  offered 
a  convention,  or  conditional  restoration,  and  his  Lordship's  letter  purports  t'j 
be  a  reply  to  such  offer;  it  was  dated  Oct  17, 1770,  and  the  following  is  the 
most  important  passage  contained  in  it : — 

"  His  Majesty  cannot  accept,  under  a  convention,  that  satisfaction  to  which 
hf*  has  so  just  a  title,  without  entering  into  any  engagements  to  procure  it. 
The  idea  of  his  Majesty's  becoming  a  contracting  party  upon  this  occasion  is 
entirely  foreign  to  the  case ;  for,  having  received  an  injury  and  demanded 
the  most  moderate  reparation  of  that  injury  that  his  honour  will  permit  him 
to  accept,  that  reparation  loses  its  value,  if  it  is  to  be  conditional,  and  to  be 
ohtnined  by  any  stipulation  whatsoever  on  the  part  of  his  Majesty." 

Yet  in  direct  violation  of  this  demand  of  an  unconditional  restoration  and 
acknowledged  sovereignty,  the  following  declaration  and  acceptance  were 
mutually  acceded  to  at  London,  Jan.  22,  1771. 

Translation  of  the  DeelartUion  signed  and  ddivered  hy  Prince  de  Materano, 
AmboModor  Extraordinary  from  his  Catholic  Majesty,  eUUed  the  22h<^ 
day  qf  June,  1771. 

His  Britannic  Majesty  having  complained  o£  the  violence  which  was  com- 
mitted on  the  10th  of  June,  1770,  at  the  island  commonly  called  the  Great 
Malouine.  and  by  the  English  Falkland's  Island,  m  obliging  by  force  the. 
ommander  and  subjects  of  his  Britannic  Majesty  to  evacuate  the  port  by 

VOL.  II.  Z 


338  MISGEiiLAKEOUS   LETTEIIS   ASCRIBED   TO   JUNIUS. 

I  know  to  be  authentic,  havini;  read  it  amongst  the  papers  laii.1 
bv  administration  before  both  Houses.     It  is  tbe  most  coiq' 

them  called  Bgmont,  a  step  offensive  to  the  honour  of  his  crotrn,  tK< 
Prince  de  Maserano,  Ambassador  Extraordinary  of  his  Catholic  Majesty,  has 
received  orders  to  declare,  and  declares,  that  his  Catholic  Majesty,  consider- 
ing the  desire  with  which  he  is  animated  for  peace,  and  for  the  maintenance 
of  good  harmony  with  his  Britannic  Majesty,  and  reflecting  that  this  eveut 
might  interrupt  it,  has  seen  with  displeasure  this  expedition  tending  to 
distorb  it;  and  in  the  persuasion  in  which  he  is  of  the  reciprocity  of  senti- 
ments of  his  Britannic  Majesty,  and  of  its  being  far  from  his  intentiou  to 
authorize  anything  that  might  disturb  the  good  understanding  between  the 
two  courts,  his  Catholic  Mnjesty  does  'tisavow  the  said  violent  enterprise; 
and  in  consequence  the  Prince  i\t  Maserano  declares  that  his  Catholic 
Majesty  engages  to  give  immediate  orders  that  things  shall  be  restored  in  the 
Great  Malouine,  at  the  port  called  Egmont,  precisely  to  the  state  in  which 
they  were  before  the  10th  of  June,  1770;  for  which  purpose  his  Catholu 
Majesty  will  give  orders  to  one  of  his  officers  to  deliver  up  to  the  officer 
authorised  by  his  Britannic  Majesty  the  port  and  fort  called  Egmont,  with 
nil  the  artillery,  stores,  and  effects  of  his  Britannic  Majesty  and  his  subject 
which  were  at  that  place  the  day  above-named,  agreeable  to  the  inventory 
which  has  been  made  of  them. 

The  Prince  de  Maserano  declares,  at  the  same  time,  in  the  name  of 
the  King  his  master,  that  the  engagement  of  his  said  Catholic  Majesty  to 
restore  to  his  Britannic  Majesty  the  possession  of  the  fort  and  port  ailed 
Egmont,  cannot,  nor  ought,  any  wise  to  afiect  the  question  of  the  prior  right 
of  sovereignty  of  the  Malouine  Islands,  otherwise  called  FaUdand's  Islanda 
In  witness  whereof,  I,  the  underwritten  Ambassador  Extraordinary,  have 
signed  the  present  declaration  with  my  usual  signature,  and  caused  it  to  be 
sealed  with  our  arms.  London,  the  twenty-second  day  of  January,  one 
thousand  seven  hundred  and  seventy-one. 

(L.  S.)  (Signed)    Lb  Pbincb  db  Masbiulbo. 

Translation  qf  tin  Earl  qf  RochforcCs  Acceptance,  dated  Uie  22n<2  day  oj 
January^  1771,  of  the  Prince  de  Haterano^e  Declaration  qf  the  tame 
date. 

His  Catholic  Majesty  having  authorized  tLe  Prince  of  Maserano,  his  Am- 
bassador Extraordinary,  to  offer  in  his  Majesty's  name  to  the  King  of  Gr&it 
Britain  a  satisfaction  for  the  injury  done  to  his  Britannic  Majesty  by  dis- 
possessing him  of  the  port  and  fort  of  Port  Egmont;  and  the  said  Am- 
bassador having  this  day  signed  a  declaration,  which  he  has  just  delivered  to 
me.  expressing  therein  that  his  Catholic  Majesty,  being  desirous  to  restore 
the  good  harmony  and  friendship  which  before  subsisted  between  the  twu 
crowns,  does  disavow  the  expedition  against  Port  Egmont,  in  which  forer 
has  been  used  against  his  Britannic  Majesty's  possessions,  commander,  and 
subjects ;  and  does  also  engage  that  all  things  shall  be  immediately  restored 
to  the  precise  situation  in  which  they  stood  before  the  10th  of  June,  1770; 
and  that  his  Catholic  Majesty  shall  give  crders,  in  consequence,  to  one  of  his 
officers  to  deliver  up  to  the  officer  authoriied  by  his  Britannic  Majesty  the 
jort  sad  fort  of  Port  Egmmt.  ns  also  all  his  Britannic  Majesty's  ari])«i7, 


BIBPUTfi   ON  7HK   FALKLAND   ISLANDS.  339 

^lete  and  unanswerable  condemnation  of  the  infamous  con- 
vention with  Spain  that  the  mind  of  man  can  suggest.     Tho 

stores,  and  effects,  as  well  as  those  of  his  subjects,  according  to  the  inventory 
which  has  been  made  of  them  ;  and  the  said  Ambassador  having  moreover 
engaged,  in  his  Catholic  Majesty's  name,  that  what  is  contained  in  the  said 
declaration  shall  be  carried  into  effect  by  his  said  Catholic  Majesty ;  and 
that  dnpli&ites  of  his  Catholic  Majesty's  orders  to  his  officers  shall  be 
delivered  into  the  hands  of  one  of  his  Britannic  Majesty's  principal  secretaries 
of  state  within  six  weeks ;  his  said  Britannic  Majesty,  in  order  to  show  the 
same  friendly  dispositions  on  his  part,  has  authorized  me  to  declare  that  he 
will  look  upon  the  said  declaration  of  Prince  de  Maserano,  together  with  the 
full  petfurmance  of  the  said  engagement,  on  the  part  of  his  Catholic  Majesty, 
as  a  satis&ction  for  the  injury  done  to  the  crown  of  Great  Britain.  In 
witness  whereof,  I,  the  underwritten,  one  of  his  Britannic  Majesty's  principal 
secretaries  of  state,  have  signed  these  presents  with  my  usual  signature,  and 
caused  them  to  be  sealed  with  our  arms.  London,  the  22nd  day  of  January, 
1771. 

(L.  S.)  (Signed)    B.ocHFoaD. 

These  papers,  together  with  the  above  letter  of  Lord  Weymouth,  were  laid 
by  Lord  North  before  the  House  of 'Commons,  Jan.  25,  1771,  and  on  Feb. 
4,  the  two  following  queries  were  moved  by  Lord  Chatham,  in  the  House  of 
Lords,  for  the  opinion  of  the  judges : — 

1.  Whether,  in  consideration  of  law,  the  imperial  crown  of  this  realm  can 
"hold  any  territories  or  possessions  thereunto  belonging,  otherwise  than 
in  sovereignty. 

2.  Whether  the  declaration,  or  instrument  for  restitution  of  the  port  or  fort^ 
called  Egmont,  to  be  made  by  the  Catholic  King  to  his  Majesty,  UTuler  a. 
reservation  of  a  ditputed  righi  of  sovereignty  expresKed  in  the  very  deelara- 
lion  or  instrument  stipulating  such  restitution,  can  be  accepted  or  carried  into 
execution  without  derogating  from  the  maxim  of  law  before  referred  to, 
tov^ting  the  in/ierent  and  essential  dignity  of  the  crown  qf  Great  Britain. 

**  The  above  queries  were  not  referred  to  the  judges,  because  Lord  Mans? 
field  said  that  the  answer  to  them  was  self  evident — ^that  they  answered 
themselves — by  which  his  Lordship  was  understood  to  mean  that  both 
queries  clearly  answered  themselves  in  the  n^ative.** 

On  the  13th  of  February  an  address  of  thanks  for  the  communication  was 
roted  in  both  Houses  of  parliament ;  that  in  the  Commons,  after  a  very  long 
deltate.  was  carried  by  a  considerable  majority,  the  numbers  being  for  th<* 
address  271,  against  157,  who  voted  for  the  amendment. 

The  address  of  the  Lords  was  much  fuller  of  approbation  than  that  of  the 
Commons,  and  was,  notwithstanding,  carried  through  with  a  much  greater 
proportional  majority ;  it  was,  however,  productive  of  the  following  nervous 
and  argumentative  protest,  signed  by  not  less  than  nineteen  peers : — 

DISSSNTIKNT. 

1.  Beeaese  it  is  highly  unsuitable  to  the  wisdom  and  gravity  of  this  H(}c:86, 
•nd  to  (he  respect  whkh  we  ow^  to  his  Majesty  and  ourselves,  to  cany  up 

z  2 


iI40       mscEiJ^WEous  ij^tters  ascbibed  to  JDxrca. 

whole  culprit  ministry,  together  with  the  King,  plead  guilty 
by  their  own  unanimous  voice.     No  secretary  of  state  ever 

to  the  throne  an  address  approving  the  acceptance  of  an  imperfect  instrument, 
which  has  neither  been  previously  authorized  by  any  special  full  pawen  pro- 
duced by  the  Spanish  minister,  nor  been  as  yet  ratified  by  the  Kinff  of  Spain. 
If  the  ratification  on  the  part  of  Spain  should  be  refused,  the  address  of  this 
House  will  appear  no  better  than  an  act  of  precipitate  adulation  to  ministers, 
which  will  justly  expose  the  peerage  of  the  kingdom  to  the  indignation  of 
their  country,  and  to  the  derision  of  all  Europe. 

2.  Because  it  is  a  direct  insult  on  the  feelings  and  understanding  of 
ihe  people  of  Great  Britain,  to  approve  this  declaration  and  acceptiince  as  a 
means  of  securing  our  own  and  the  general  tranquillity,  whilst  the  gresitest 
preparations  for  war  are  making  both  by  sea  and  land ;  and  whilst  the 
practi#;  of  pressing  is  continued,  as  in  times  of  the  most  urgent  necessity,  to 
the  extreme  inconvenience  of  trade  and  commerce,  and  with  the  greatest 
hardships  to  one  of  the  most  meritorious  and  useful  orders  of  his  Majesty's 
subjects. 

3.  Because  the  refusing  to  put  the  questions  to  the  judges  upon  points  of 
law,  very  essentially  affecting  this  great  question,  and  the  refusing  to  address 
his  Majesty  to  give  orders  fur  laying  before  this  House  the  instructions  re- 
lating to  Falkland's  Islands,  given  to  the  commanders  of  his  Majesty's  ships 
employed  there,  is  depriving  us  of  such  lights  as  seemed  highly  proper  for  ns 
on  this  occasion. 

i.  Because,  from  the  decliration  and  correspondence  laid  before  us,  we  are 
of  opinion  that  the  ministers  merit  the  censure  of  this  House,  rather  than  any 
degree  of  commendation,  on  account  of  several  improper  acts,  and  equally  im- 
proper  omissions,  from  the  beginning  to  the  close  of  this  trans<iction.  For  it 
is  asserted  by  the  Spanish  minister,  and  stands  uncontradicted  by  ours,  that 
several  discussions  had  passed  between  the  ministers  of  the  two  courts  upon 
the  subject  of  Falkland's  Islands,  which  might  give  the  British  ministers 
leasou  to  foresee  the  attack  upon  that  settlement  that  was  afterwards  made 
\ty  the  forces  of  Spain.  Captain  Huut  also,  arriving  from  thence  so  early  as 
he  third  of  June  last,  did  advertise  the  ministers  of  repeated  warnings  and 
menaces  made  by  Spanish  governors  and  commanders  of  ships  of  war ;  yet  so 
obstinately  negligent  and  supine  were  his  Majesty's  ministers,  and  so  fiu:  from 
the  vigilance  and  activity  required  by  the  trust  and  duty  of  their  offices,  that 
they  did  not  even  so  much  as  make  a  single  representation  to  the  court  of 
Madrid ;  which  if  they  had  done,  the  injury  itself  might  have  been  prevented, 
or  at  least  so  speedily  repaired  as  to  render  unnecessary  the  enormous  ex- 
penses to  which  this  nation  has  been  compelled,  by  waiting  until  the  blow  had 
been  actually  struck,  and  the  news  of  so  signal  an  insult  to  the  crown  of 
Oreat  Britain  had  arrived  in  Europe.  To  this  wilful,  and  therefore  culpable, 
neglect  of  representation  to  the  court  of  Spain,  was  added  another  neglect,  m 
neglect  of  such  timely  preparation  for  putting  this  nation  into  such  a  state  of 
uefence  as  the  menacing  appearances  on  the  part  of  Spain  and  the  critical 
sendition  of  Europe  required.  These  preparati(»n'«,  had  they  been  undertaken 
enrly,  would  have  been  executed  with  ibore  effect  and  less  expense;  would  have 
but^n  &r  less  distressing  to  uur  tnide,  and  to  our  s«>umen  ;  would  have  stthoc^ 


DISPUTE   ON   THE    FALKLAND   ISLANDS.  341 

did  or  would  write  a  letter  of  this  sort  upon  so  delicate  a  mat- 
ter, without  first  laying  it  before  his  Majesty's  most  confiden- 

ised  as  in  the  beginning  to  have  demanded,  and  would,  in  all  probability, 
nave  induced  Spain  to  consent  to,  an  immediate,  perfect,  and  equitable  settle* 
ment  of  all  the  points  in  discussion  between  the  two  crowns ;  but  all  prepa- 
ration  having  been  neglected,  the  national  safety  was  left  depending  rather 
upon  accidental  alterations  in  the  internal  circumstances  of  our  neighbours 
than  in  the  proper  and  natural  strength  of  the  kingdom ;  and  this  negligence 
was  highly  aggravated  by  the  refusal  of  administration  to  consent  to  an  ad- 
dress, proposed  by  a  noble  Lord  in  this  House  last  session,  for  a  moderate  and 
gradual  augmentation  of  our  naval  forces. 

5.  Because  the  negotiation,  entered  into  much  too  late,  was,  from  the  com- 
mencement, conducted  upon  principles  as  disadvantageous  to  the  wisdom  of 
our  public  conncils  as  it  was  finally  concluded  in  a  manner  disgraceful  to  the 
honour  of  the  crown  of  Great  Britain ;  for  it  appears  that  the  court  of  Madrid 
did  disavow  the  act  of  hostility  as  proceeding  from  particular  instructions, 
but  justified  it  under  her  general  instructions  to  her  governors,  under  the 
oath  by  them  taken,  and  under  the  established  laws  of  America.  This  gene- 
ral order  was  never  disavowed  nor  explained  ;  nor  was  any  disavowal  or  ex- 
planation thereof  ever  demanded  by  our  ministers  :  and  we  apprehend  that 
this  justification  of  an  act  of  violence  under  general  orders,  established  laws, 
and  oaths  of  office,  to  be  &r  more  dangerous  and  injurious  to  this  kingdom  than 
the  particular  enterprise  which  has  been  disavowed,  as  it  evidently  supposes 
that  the  governors  of  the  Spanish  American  provinces  are  not  only  authorized, 
but  required,  without  any  particular  instructions,  to  raise  great  forces  by  sea 
and  land,  and  to  invade  his  Majesty's  possessions  in  that  part  of  the  world,  in 
the  midst  of  pMfound  peace. 

6.  Because  this  power,  so  unprecedented  and  alarming,  under  which  the 
Spanish  governor  was  justified  by  his  court,  rendered  it  the  duty  of  our 
ministers  to  insist  upon  some  censure  or  punishment  upon  that  governor,  in 
order  to  demonstrate  the  sincerity  of  the  court  of  Madrid,  and  of  her  desire  to 
preserve  peace,  by  putting;  at  least  some  check  upon  those  exorbitant  powers 
Asserted  by  the  court  of  Spain  to  be  given  to  her  governors.  But  although 
our  ministers  were  authorized,  not  only  by  the  acknowledged  principles  of  the 
law  of  nations,  to  call  for  such  censure  or  punishment,  but  also  by  the  ex- 
press provision  of  the  seventeenth  article  of  the  treaty  of  Utrecht,  yet  they 
have  thought  fit  to  observe  a  profound  silence  on  this  necessary  article  of 
public  reparation.  If  it  were  thought  that  any  circumstances  appeared  in 
the  particular  case  of  the  governor,  to  make  an  abatement  or  pardon  of  the 
punishment  advisable,  that  abatement  or  pardon  ought  to  have  been  the  eilect 
of  his  Majesty's  clemency,  and  not  an  impunity  to  him,  arising  from  tho 
ignorance  of  our  ministers  in  the  first  principles  of  public  law,  or  their  negli- 
gence or  pusillanimity  in  asserting  them. 

7.  Because  nothing  has  been  had  or  demanded  as  a  reparation  in  damage 
for  the  enormous  expense  and  other  inconveniences  arising  from  the  cok 
fessed  and  unprovoked  violence  of  the  Spanish  forces  in  the  enterprise  agains* 
Falkland's  Islands,  and  the  long  subsequent  delay  of  justice.  It  was  not  r» 
oessary  to  this  demand  that  it  should  be  made  m  any  improper  or  offensive 


342  MISCELLANEOUS  LETTERS  ASCRIBED  TO  JUNIUS. 

tial  servants,  and  taking  the  King  s  express  ordei*?  upon  it 
It  speaks,  then,  the  unanimous  sentiments  of  them  all.     His 

language,  but  in  that  style  of  accommodation  which  has  ever  been  used  by 
kble  negotiators. 

8.  Because  an  unparalleled  and  most  audacious  insult  has  been  offered  to 
the  honour  of  the  British  flag,  by  the  detention  of  a  ship  of  war  of  his  Ma- 
jesty's, for  twenty  days  after  the  surrender  of  Port  Egmont,and  by  the  indig' 
nity  of  forcibly  taking  away  her  rudder :  this  act  could  not  be  supported  upon 
any  idea  of  being  necessary  to  the  reduction  of  the  fort,  nor  was  any  such 
necessity  pretended.  No  reparation  in  honour  has  been  denwnded  for  this 
\ranton  insult,  by  which  his  Majesty's  reign  is  rendered  the  unhappy  sera  in 
which  the  honour  of  the  British  flag  has  suffered  the  first  stain  with  entire 
impunity. 

9.  Because  the  Spanish  declaration,  which  our  ministers  have  advised  his 
Majesty  to  accept,  does  in  general  words  imply  his  Majesty's  disarowal  of 
some  acts  on  his  part  tending  to  disturb  the  good  correspondence  of  the  two 
courts,  when  it  is  notorious  that  no  act  of  violence  whatsoever  had  been  com- 
mitted on  the  part  of  Great  Britain.  By  this  disavowal  of  some  implied 
aggression  in  the  very  declaration,  pretended  to  be  made  for  reparation  of 
the  injured  dignity  of  Great  Britain,  his  Majesty  is  made  to  admit  a  supposi- 
tion contrary  to  truth,  and  injurious  to  the  justice  and  honour  of  his  crown. 

10.  Because  in  the  said  declaration  the  restitution  is  confined  to  Port  Eg- 
mont,  when  Spain  herself  originally  offered  to  rede  Falkland's  Islands.  It 
is  known  that  she  made  her  forcible  attack  on  pretence  of  title  to  the  whole, 
and  the  restitution  ought,  therefore,  not  to  have  been  confined  to  a  part  only; 
nor  can  any  reason  be  assigned  why  the  restitution  ought  to  have  been  made 
in  narrower  or  more  ambiguous  words  than  the  claims  of  Spain,  on  which  her 
act  of  violence  was  grounded,  and  her  offers  of  restitution  originally  made. 

11.  Because  the  declaration,  by  which  his  Majesty  is  to  obtain  poasesdoo 
of  Port  Bgmont,  contains  a  reservation  or  condition  of  the  question  of  a  claim 
of  prior  right  of  sovereignty  in  the  Catholic  King  to  the  whole  of  Falkland's 
Islands,  being  the  first  time  such  a  claim  has  ever  authentically  appeared  in 
any  public  instrument  jointly  concluded  on  by  the  two  courts.  No  exphma- 
tion  of  the  principles  of  this  claim  has  been  required,  although  there  is  jnst 
reason  to  believe  that  these  principles  will  equally  extend  to  restrain  the 
liberty  and  confine  the  extent  of  British  navigation.  No  counter  claim  hat 
been  made  on  the  part  of  his  Majesty  to  the  right  of  sovereignty  in  any  put 
of  the  said  island  ceded  to  him ;  any  assertion  whatsoever  of  his  Majesty's 
right  of  sovereignty  has  been  studiously  avoided  from  the  beginning  to  the 
accomplishment  of  this  unhappy  transaction,  which,  after  the  expense  of 
millions,  settles  no  contest,  asserts  no  right,  exacts  no  reparation,  affords  no 
security,  but  stands  as  a  monument  of  reproach  to  the  wisdom  of  the  nationsl 
councils,  of  dishonour  to  the  essential  dignity  of  his  Majesty's  crown,  and  of 
disgrace  to  the  hitherto  untainted  honour  of  the  British  flag. 

After  having  given  these  reasons,  founded  on  the  facts  which  appeared 
from  the  papers,  we  think  it  necessary  here  to  discUim  an  invidious  and 
injurious  imputation,  substituted  in  th  i  place  of  fair  argument,  that  they  whe 
will  not  approve  of  this  convention  are  lor  precipitating  their  c  untry  into  tkf 


DISPUTE   ON   THE    FALKLAND   ISLANDS.  343 

Migesty  pronounces,  in  common  with  the  rest,  his  own  con- 
demnation in  that  of  this  unworthy  transaction.  The  mode* 
rate  reparation  to  his  Majesty *s  honour  for  the  injury  is  not 
obtained  unconditionally ;  that  is,  in  the  only  way  which  he 
himself  and  his  servants  thought  indispensable.  A  humi- 
liating stipulation  for  referring  the  discussion  of  the  prior 
right  is  a  defeasance  of  the  reparation.  It  wounds  irrepar- 
ably the  honour  of  the  King  as  a  private  man,  and  the  glory 
of  the  kingdom ;  but  when  that  stipulation  carries  along  with 
it  also  a  private  insinuation  or  encouragement  to  the  Catholic 
King  to  hope,  and  most  probably,  not  to  say  certainly,  an 

calamities  of  war.  We  are  as  far  from  the  design,  and  we  trust  mnch  farther 
from  the  act,  of  kindling  the  flame  of  war,  than  those  who  have  advised  his 
Majesty  to  accept  of  the  dedaration  of  the  Spanish  ambassador.  We  have 
never  entertained  the  least  thought  of  invalidating  this  public  act ;  but  if 
ministers  may  not  be  censured,  or  even  punished  for  treaties,  which,  though 
valid,  are  injurioos  to  the  national  interest  and  honour,  without  a  supposition 
of  the  breach  of  public  faith  in  this  House,  that  should  censure  or  punish,  or 
of  a  breach  of  the  laws  of  humanity  in  those  who  propose  such  censure  or 
punishment,  the  use  of  the  peers,  as  a  controul  on  ministers,  and  as  the  best 
as  well  as  highest  council  of  the  crown,  will  be  rendered  of  no  avail.  We 
have  no  doubt  but  a  declaration  more  adequate  to  our  just  pretensions,  and 
to  the  dignity  of  the  crown,  might  have  been  obtained  without  the  effusion 
of  blood,  not  only  from  the  favourable  circumstance  of  the  conjuncture,  but 
because  our  just  demands  were  no  more  than  any  sovereign  power  who  had 
injured  another  through  inadvertence  or  mistake  ought,  even  from  regard  to 
its  own  honour,  to  have  granted ;  and  we  are  satisfied  that  the  obtaining  such 
terms  would  have  been  the  only  secure  means  of  establishing  a  lasting  and 
honoiii8t!e  peace. 

Richmond,  Aui>let, 

Bolton,  Einq, 

Manchester,  Torbington, 

Tankervillk,        Milton, 
Chatham,  Abeboayennt, 

.  Wycombe,  Fitzwilliam, 

Craven,  Ponsonbt, 

BOTLE,  SCARBOROnOH, 

Devonshire,  Archer. 

dissentient. 

Because,  though  the  disavowal  may  be  considered  ag  humiliating  to  the 
court  of  Spain,  the  declaration  and  acceptance,  under  the  reservation  of  the 
question  of  prior  right,  do  not,  in  my  opinion,  after  the  heavy  expenses 
incurred,  either  convey  a  satisfaction  adequate  to  the  insult  on  the  honour  of 
QteaX  Britain,  or  afford  any  reasonable  grounds  to  believe  that  peace,  on  tht 
terms  of  honour,  can  be  lasting. 

Radnor. 


644         MISCELLANEOUS  LETTEB8  ASGBIBED   TO  JOHIUS. 

express  assurance,  that  not  only  Port  Egmont  now  restoreJ 
to  us.  but  the  whole  island,  shall  in  due  time,  as  soon  as  tbey 
dare,  be  surrendered  to  the  crown  of  Spain.  No  words  can 
express  the  meanness  or  folly  of  such  a  proceeding.  Our 
tame  submission  to  France  in  the  Corsican  business  has 
drawn  this  atrocious  insult  upon  us.  This  insult,  accompa- 
nied with  the  indignities  contained  by  the  minister  s  own  con> 
fession  in  the  convent^oh,  will  renew  to.  us,  in  the  mouths  of 
the  proud  and  triumphant  Spaniards,  the  ignominious  title  of 
GaUinas  del  mar,  and  we  shall  deservedly  become  a  bye- 
word  of  contempt  amongst  the  nations.  The  only  reparation 
which  it  can  be  pretended  that  Spain  makes,  is  the  temporary 
restitution  of  Port  Egmont.  Restoring  to  me  my  possessions 
violently  seized  is  an  act  of  justice,  not  of  reparation :  but 
with  what  indelible  shame  shall  we  be  covered,  when  it  is 
seen  that  we  pitifully  traffic  away  what  was  insultingly 
wrested  from  us,  and  yield  the  whole  to  the  aggressor  under 
any  pretence  or  colour  whatever?  The  insult  was  com- 
mitted after  repeated  notices  of  our  right,  in  full  peace :  it 
was  an  insult,  not  only  to  the  flag  of  England  hitherto  spot- 
less, but  to  the  whole  m^esty  of  the  kingdom,  by  direct 
hostilities  committed  as  in  time  of  actual  war,  so  as  to  en- 
force a  formal  capitulation  ;  a  proceeding  till  now  unheard  of, 
submitted  to  wim  a  meanness  and  treachery  on  the  part  of 
our  rulers,  which  nothing  can  now  palliate.  We  deceive  om* 
selves  if  we  think  the  peace  can  be  maintained  by  pusillanimity 
and  baseness.  Remember  **His  Majesty  cannot  accept 
under  a  convention  that  satisfaction  to  which  he  has  so  just 
a  title,  without  entering  hito  any  engagements  to  procure 
it."* 

A  Member  of  one  House  of  Parliament  in  mourning 
for  the  honour  of  his  king  and  country. 

*  See  this  subject  farther  discussed  m  Junius,  Letter  42,  rol.  i.  pi  Slfl. 
■fid  notes  appended  to  it 


KLEOnON  TO   THE   OABTER.  345 


LETTER  LXXXIX. 

ro   UkJfj   FBINTEB  OF  THE   PUBLIC   ADTERTISEB. 

Sib,  February  16, 1771. 

It  is  proper  the  public  should  be  informed  that,  upon  Lord 
Gower  8  election  to  be  a  knight  of  the  garter,  there  were  but 
four  knights  present,  besides  the  Sovereign,  and  the  Duke  of 
Gloucester  was  lugged  in  to  be  one  of  them.  He  intreated, 
he  begged,  he  implored,  but  all  to  no  pui-pose.  Poor  Peg 
Trentham  was  forced  to  submit  to  an  election,  which,  by  the 
statutes  of  the  order,  is  void.  Ashmole  informs  us,  that  '*  to 
make  up  a  complete  chapter  of  election,  there  should  be  as- 
sembled six  knights  companions  at  the  least,  besides  the  Sove- 
reign ;  the  due  observance  of  which  hath  been  so  strict  for- 
merly, that  elections  have  been  deferred,  where  chapters  have 
been  deficient  in  that  number."  * 

*  The  same  fact  is  related,  and  probably  by  the  same  correspondent,  in  the 
following  article  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  February  16, 1771: — 

A  correspondent  has  sent  us  the  following  remarks  on  the  London  OazetU, 
published  by  authority. 

"This  lying  paper  contains  the  following  unprecedented  article: — 'St. 
James's,  Feb.  11.  This  day  a  chapter  of  the  most  noble  order  of  th^  garter 
was  held  in  the  great  council  chamber,  when  Ghranville  Levison  Gower,  Earl 
Gower,  being  first  knighted,  was  afterwards  elected  and  invested  with  the 
garter,  ribbon,  and  George,  with  the  usual  solemnity.'  It  is  most  notorious 
to  a  great  concourse  of  nobility  and  gentry  then  present,  that  there  were  onl^ 
assisting  the  best  of  Kings,  the  Dukes  of  Gloucester,  Newcastle,  and  North- 
umberland ;  consequently  it  \&  impossible  that  any  election  can  have  been 
made,  the  statutes  of  the  order  requiring  the  presence  of  the  Sovereign  with 
six  knights.  The  best  of  Kings,  whose  duty  it  is  to  preserve  the  laws  in- 
vioiable,  could,  to  be  sure,  on  no  consideration,  not  even  the  election  of  thiit 
most  worthy  peer  the  Karl  Gower  into  this  noble  order,  be  prevailed  upon 
in  the  &ce  of  all  England  to  set  the  example  of  openly  violating  the  statnteR 
which  have  hitherto  been  so  religiously  respected  and  observed  throtigli  so 
many  ages.  Had  there  been  an  election,  the  Oazeite  would  have  proclaimed 
it  in  the  usual  form — the  knights  present  would  have  been  enumerated  and 
named.  It  is  impossible  that  the  best  of  Kings  can  be  a  party  to  the  illegally 
■muggling  in  a  knight  upon  that  most  noble  order,  in  the  same  manner  as  a 
knight  for  the  county  of  Middlesex  has  been  smuggled  into  the  House  of 
Commons.  If  this  article  pf  news  could  be  true,  would  not  the  kingdom 
have  reason  to  lament  that  all  order,  aecency,  and  respect  for  ancient  rules 
and  establishment  is  now  broken  through  by  the  person  whose  peculi«ir  duty 
and  interest  it  is  to  preserve  themf  Is  the  Court  itself  so  unpopular,  or  if 
the  subject  of  his  Majesty's  &vour  so  unworthy,  that  it  was,  after  ten  days 
waiting.  impoitiUe  to  prccore  the  attendance  of  more  than  the  King's  own 


346  MISCELLANEOUS   LETTERS  ASCRIBED   TO  JUNIUS. 

The  present  way  of  electing  Peg  Trentham  is,  for  two  rea 
sons,  remarkable.  It  shows  first,  in  what  profound  comtempt 
poor  Peggy  is  universally  held.  And  secondly,  the  pious  re- 
solution of  our  gracious  Sovereign  to  introduce  a  new  system 
of  arithmetic.  In  the  decision  of  the  Middlesex  election,  it 
was  resolved  that  296  were  more  than  1143,  and  nv/w  we  are 
told  that  four  are  equal  to  six.  This  puts  me  in  mind  of 
Lord  March's  election  to  the  coterie.  All  the  balls  were 
black ;  but  the  returning  ofl&cer,  George  Selwyn,  thought  pro- 
per to  swear  he  was  duly  elected,  and  he  took  his  seat  accord- 
ingly. 

A.  B. 


LETTER  XC* 

TO   THE   PRINTER  OF  THE   FUBUC   ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  February  22,  1771. 

The  advocates  of  the  ministry  are,  in  point  of  ignorance,  upon 
a  level  with  the  people  whose  conduct  they  defend*.  The 
questions  they  ask  are  suicide  to  their  own  cause.  Gibraltar 
and  Minorca  were  yielded  to  England  by  the  treaty  of  Utrecht, 
to  which  treaty  Spain  acceded ;  and,  admitting  that  they  have 
never  given  up  in  form  their  claim  to  Jamaica,  it  is  also  true, 
that,  since  the  treaty  of  Utrecht,  they  have  never  asserted 
such  a  claim,  much  less  have  we  allowed  it  to  be  inserted  in 
any  treaty  between  the  two  crowns.  But,  Sir,  the  real  ques- 
tion is,  not  what  declarations  or  pretensions  Spain  may  have 
thought  proper  to  advance,  but,  what  declarations  or  preten 
sions  on  their  part  haoe  we  admitted  and  accepted  f     To  sup 

brother,  the  Lord  Chamberiain,  the  Aaditor  of  the  Exchequer,  and  the  Duke 
of  Northumberland  in  flannels  f 

*'  JUsum  ttneatii  amid  !  ** 

*  The  following  is  a  copy  of  the  paragraph  which  occasioned  the  forq;oing 
essay : — 

''  People  who  would  cavil,  and  are  clamorous  abont  that  part  of  the  Spanish 
declaration  where  the  King  of  Spain  makes  a  reservation  of  a  prior  claim  of 
right  to  Falkland  Island,  would  do  well  to  consider  that  such  reservation  is 
only  mere  matter  of  form,  and  is  never  likely  to  produce  the  smallest  mis- 
understanding between  the  two  crowns,  especially  when  they  recollect,  or 
may  inform  themselves,  that  Spain  never  to  this  hour  has  nmounced  hef 
formal  claim  of  right  either  to  Minorca  or  Gibralfair^  in  the  treaties  sitbjM)-|ueii1 
to  our  possessiop  of  those  places." 


TITLES   OF   THE    KING   OF  BPAfK.  347 

port  a  £fur  comparison  between  the  terms  on  which  we  hold 
the  above  places,  and  those  on  which  Port  Egmont  is  restored^ 
it  should  be  proved  that  Spain,  in  some  treaty  between  us  and 
it,  has  asserted  its  claim  of  prior  right  to  Jamaica,  Gibraltar, 
and  Minorca,  and  that  we  have,  with  equal  formality,  accepted 
a  treaty  containing  such  an  express  reservation,  and  declared 
ourselves  satisfied  with  it.  The  ministry  would  then  have  an 
example  in  point*. 

VINDBX. 


LETTER  XCl. 

TO   THE   FBIMTER  OF  THE   PUBUG   ADYEBTI8ER. 

Sir,  March  6, 1771. 

Pbat  tell  that  ingenious  gentleman,  Mr.  Laughlin  Macleanef, 
that  when  the  King  of  Spain  writes  to  the  King  of  Great  Bri- 
tain, he  omits  four-iifths  of  his  titles,  and  when  our  King 
writes  to  him,  his  address  is  always  Carolo,  Dei  gratia.  His- 
paniarum,  utriusqae  Sicilia,  et  Indiarum  Regi  Catholico.  It 
was  reserved  for  his  present  Majesty  to  say,  m  a  public  in- 
strument, *'  Falkland  Island  is  one  of  my  possessions,  and  yet 
I  allow  the  King  of  Spain  to  reserve  a  claim  of  prior  right, 
and  I  declare  myself  satisfied  with  that  reservation."  In  spite 
of  Mr.  Laughlin*s  disinterested,  unbroken,  melodious  elo- 
quence, it  is  a  melancholy  truth  that  the  crown  of  England 

*  The  printer  thought  proper  at  the  time,  wi^  the  conseot  of  the  author 
(see  Private  Letter,  Ho.  88),  to  break  ofF  at  this  point,  and  to  suppress  the 
remainder  of  the  essay.  The  autograph  of  the  entire  letter  is  still  in  the 
hands  of  the  proprietor  of  tUs  edition ;  but  it  would  be  a  breach  of  confidence 
to  continue  it  further.  Independently  of  which^  he  altogether  approves  of  the 
suppression. 

t  Laughlin  Macleane  had  been  under  secretary  of  state  during  Lord 
Shelbume's  possession  of  the  office  for  the  southern  department.  In  his  de- 
fence of  the  ministry  here  referred  to,  he  still  discovers  a  hankering  after 
office,  and  at  least  a  disposition  to  forgive  them  for  his  dismission.  Mr. 
Campbell,  however,  in  his  life  of  Hugh  Boyd,  p.  125,  tells  us  that  at  this 
very  period  he  possessed  "  a  mortal  hatred  for  his  Qrace  (of  Grafton),  and 
indulged  his  resentment  by  painting  him  in  the  blackest  colours  1 !  !*'  See 
observations  on  this  subject  in  the  Preliminary  Kssay,  vol.  i.  p.  78.  In 
Januiiry,  in  the  following  year,  he  received  from  Lord  North  the  collector- 
ship  of  Philadelphia,  and  subsequently  an  s^ipointment  to  India,  in  hii 
voyage  to  which  he  was  loat. 


348  MT8CELLAKKOU3   LETTF.IIS   ASCRIBED   TO  JUNIUS. 

was  never  so  insulted^  r:ever  so  shamefully  degraded,  as  bj 
this  declaration,  with  which  the  best  of  sovereigns  assures 
his  people  he  is  perfectly,  entirely,  completely  satisfied. 

VINDEX. 


LETTER  XCII. 

TO   THE   PRINTER   OF   THE   PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 

Sir,  March  26, 1771 

However  the  Court  might  have  concealed  its  designs,  how 
ever  it  might  have  deluded  those  who  were  disposed  to  be 
deceived,  the  imposition  can  exist  no  longer.  The  triplet 
union  of  Crown,  Lords,  and  Commons  against  England  displays 
itself  with  a  violence  and  a  candour  which  statesmen  in  other 
conspiracies  seldom  have  adopted.  It  is  no  more  a  questioix 
of  royal  antipathy  or  feminine  unrelenting  resentnient ;  it  is 
not  a  single  inconsequent  act  of  arbitrary  power ;  it  is  not  the 
offensive  individual,  but  the  free  constitution  of  this  country, 
whose  destnction  engages  the  influence  of  the  crown  and  the 
authority  of  parliament. 

The  House  of  Commons  assume  a  power  of  imprisonment 
during  pleasure  for  actions  which  the  laws  have  not  made 
criminal.  They  create  a  crime  as  well  as  a  punishment. 
They  call  upon  the  King  to  support  their  illegality  by  a  pro- 
clamation still  more  illegal ;  and  the  liberty  of  the  press  is 
the  object  of  this  criminal  alliance.  They  expunge  a  recog- 
nizance; they  stagnate  the  course  of  justice,  and  thereby 
assume  an  absolute  power  over  the  law  and  property  of  Great 
Britain  *. 

*  The  whole  of  this  requires  explanation.  The  printers  of  newspapers, 
having  long  intended  it,  now  resolutely  determined  to  report  the  debates  olf 
both  Houses.  Col.  Onslow  made  a  motion  against  them  as  guilty  of  a  viola- 
tion of  the  privileges  of  parliament,  and  the  printers  were  summoned  to  at- 
tend. Wheble  and  Mil'er,  however,  refused  to  obey  the  order;  and  the 
minister  thought  proper  to  issue  a  proclamation  in  his  Majesty's  name,  and 
insert  it  in  the  Oasette,  offi;ring  a  reward  of  fifty  pounds  for  apprehending 
John  Wheble,  printer  of  the  Middlesex  Joumalf  and  John  Miller,  printer  of 
the  London  Evening  Post,  for  daring  to  publish  certain  speeches  delivered  in 
parliament.  In  coodequence  of  this  proclamation,  they  were  both  appre- 
hended-^ Wheble  by  a  brother  printer  of  the  name  of  Carpenter,  who  owed 
him  a  grudge ;  and  Miller  by  Williani  Whittam,  a  messengfr  of  the  House  of 
Commons.     The  farmer  was  carried  before  Mr.  Vnikes,  at  *hat  time  jot 


PUBLIC ATIOK   OF  THE  PAKLIAMENTABT   DEBATES.  84U 

Tho  House  of  Lords  have  not  been  backward  in  their  con 
tribution  to  the  scheme  of  slavery;  for  they  have  imprisoned, 

liberated  from  the  King's  Bench,  and,  as  alderman  for  Farringdon  Without, 
sitting  magistrate  at  Guildhall ;  who,  denying  the  legal  authority  of  a  mere 
proclamation,  discharged  Wheble,  and  took  a  recognizance  of  him  to  prose- 
cute Carpenter  for  an  assault  and  unlawful  imprisonment.  Miller,  upon  hia 
arrest,  sent  for  a  constable,  to  whom  he  gave  charge  of  the  messenger  who 
arrested  him,  and  immediately  carried  him  to  the  Mansion  House,  where  the 
Lord  Mayor,  Mr.  Alderman  Wilkes,  and  Mr.  Alderman  Oliver  jointly  heard 
the  cause,  discharged  Miller,  and  signed  a  warrant  of  commitment  of  the 
messenger  to  the  Compter  for  the  assault  and  false  imprisonment ;  from  which, 
however,  he  was  released  upon  finding  bail.  Wilkes,  at  the  same  time  that 
these  transactions  were  officially  entered  by  the  Lord  Mayor's  clerk  into  the 
Mansion  House  rota  book,  addressed  a  letter  to  Lord  HalifJEUc,  one  of  the 
Secretaries  of  State,  informing  him  of  the  steps  he  had  taken. 

All  was  confusion  and  uproar.  The  House  of  Commons  supported  the 
legality  of  the  proclamaiionf  issued  an  order  to  prohibit  every  kind  of  prose- 
cution  or  suit  from  being  commenced  or  carried  on  for  or  on  account  of  the 
assault  and  imprisonment  of  the  printers,  ordered  the  clerk  to  attend  who  had 
entered  the  proceedings  in  the  Mansion  I{ouse  minute  book,  erased  the 
entire  record,  and  summoned  the  different  aldermen  who  had  officiated  to 
appear  at  the  bar  of  the  House  to  answer  for  their  conduct. 

The  City  first  of  all,  and  afterwards  the  nation  at  large,  was  extremel}^  in- 
dignant at  such  illegal  violence.  The  Lord  Mayor  s  clerk  was  severely  repri- 
manded, at  a  general  court  of  aldermen,  for  suffering  the  City  minute  book 
to  be  mutilated ;  the  Bill  of  Bights  Society  complained  vehemently  against 
the  outrages  committed ;  Wilkes  refused  to  obey  the  summons  for  his  attend- 
ance ;  and  the  Lord  Mayor  and  his  other  colleagues,  upon  attending  and  justi- 
fying their  conduct,  were  committed  to  the  Tower  for  pretended  contumacy. 
It  was  on  this  occasion  that  the  Lord  Mayor  (Crosby)  made  the  following 
spirited  reply : — 

'*  Mr.  Speaker, — An  honourable  gentleman  has  talked  of  the  lenity  to  be 
shown  me  on  account  of  my  health,  and  my  being  only  committed  to  the 
custody  of  the  serjeant-at-arms.  I  thank  God  that  my  health  is  better  than 
it  has  been  for  some  time  past.  I  know  that  I  was  prejudged  on  Monday, 
and  that  the  string  of  resolutions  and  warrants  is  now  in  the  gentleman's 
pocket.  I  ask  no  ^vour  of  this  House.  I  crave  no  mercy  from  the  Trea- 
sury-bench. I  am  ready  to  go  to  my  noble  friend  at  the  Tower,  if  the  House 
shall  order  me.  My  conscience  is  clear,  and  tells  me  that  I  have  kept  my  oath 
and  done  my  duty  to  the  city  of  v»'hich  I  have  the  honour  to  be  chief  magis- 
trate, and  to  my  country.  I  will  never  betniy  the  privileges  of  the  citizens 
rtor  the  rights  of  the  people.  I  have  no  apology  to  make  for  having  acted 
uprightly,  and  I  fear  not  any  resentment  in  consequence  of  such  conduct.  I 
will  through  life  continue  to  obey  the  dictates  of  honour  imd  conscience,  to 
give  my  utmost  support  to  every  part  of  the  constitution  of  this  kingdom^ 
and  the  event  I  shall  always  leave  to  Heaven,  at  all  times  read}  tc  meet  my 
%te." 

The  Lord  Mayor  was  acco.npanied  to  the  Tower  by  an  immense  conci  urn 


350  MISCELLANEOUS   I  BrTBRS  ASGRIBftI)   TO  JUNl^JS. 

and  they  have  fined.  The  crime,  like  the  punishment,  was  in 
their  own  bosom.  They  were  ex  post  facto  legislators.  They 
were  parties;  thoy  were  judges;  and,  instead  of  a  court  of  final 
judicature,  acted  as  a  court  of  criminal  jurisdiction  in  the  first 
instance.  The  three  estates,  instead  of  being  a  control  upon 
each  other,  are  let  loose  upon  the  constitution.  The  absolute 
power  of  the  crown,  by  the  assistance  of  the  handmaid  cor- 
ruption, puts  on  the  disguise  of  privilege.  In  the  arrange- 
ment of  hostility,  the  associated  senate  takes  the  lead,  and 
illegal  proclamation  brings  up  the  rear  of  oppression.  The 
cabal  aavauces  upon  us  as  an  army  once  did  upon  a  town — it 
displayed  before  it  a  multitude  of  nuns,  and  overawed  the 
resistance  of  the  besieged  by  the  venerable  appearance.     So 

of  the  Hvery,  as  well  as  of  persons  not  connected  xvith  the  police  of  the  Cit>« 
many  of  them  of  the  utmost  respectability.  He  was  visited  by  the  Dukes  of 
Manchester  and  Portland,  Earls  Fitzwilliam  and  Tankerville,  Lord  King, 
Admiral  Keppel,  Sir  Charles  Saunders,  Mr.  Dowdeswell,  Mr.  Burke,  nml 
many  other  commoners ;  as  also  by  the  two  sheriffs,  in  order  to  express  their 
entire  disapprobation  of  the  proceedingrs  that  had  taken  place  against  thenu 
And  the  thanks  of  the  City  were  voted  unanimously,  at  a  meeting  of  (Joni- 
mon  Council,  holden  March  28,  to  such  nieuihers  of  the  House  of  Commons 
as  had  supported  the  conduct  of  the  Lord  Mayor  and  his  colleagues,  and 
maintained  the  rights  and  privileges  of  the  City.  The  Common  Council 
voted  that  all  the  expenses  of  the  Lord  Mayor*s  and  Mr.  Oliver's  table,  &c.. 
&c.,  should  be  defrayed  by  the  City. 

The  magistrates,  in  order  to  obtain  their  dischaige,  were  carried  by  hjaJbean 
corpus  first  before  Lord  Chief  Justice  De  Grey,  and  afterwards  before  Lord 
Mansfield ;  but  both  judges  refusing  to  discharge  them,  they  were  remanded 
to  the  Tower.  In  the  mean  time,  in  direct  opposition  to  the  order  of  th> 
House  of  Commons,  the  grand  jury,  at  the  ensuing  quarter-sessions  at  Guild  • 
hall,  found  bills  of  indictment  against  Carpenter,  and  Whittam  tVe  meisengec 
of  the  House,  for  the  assault  and  imprisonment  of  Miller  and  Wheble.  The 
Lord  Mayor  and  his  colleagues  remained  in  the  Tower  till  the  8th  of  May, 
on  which  day  his  Majesty,  by  proroguing  the  parliament,  terminated  its  power 
:f  confining  them  any  longer. 

It  is  not  necessary  at  this  time  to  enter  into  the  question  of  the  l^lity  or 
illegality  of  the  power  claimed  in  this  instance  by  the  House  of  Commons, 
under  the  specious  name  of  parliamentary  privilege.  They  virtually  admitted 
themselves  to  have  erred,  by  their  subseouent  conduct  towards  Mr.  Wilket,  who, 
though  by  fax  the  most  culpable  of  the  wnole  (admittingculpability  of  any  kind), 
WIS  suffered  to  remain  unmolested,  except  by  serving  him  with  three  mkcm- 
sive  summonses  to  appear  at  the  bar  of  the  House,  every  one  of  which  he  oon* 
temptuously  refused  to  obey,  unless  the  House  would  tnffer  him  to  take  his 
place  as  member  for  Middlesex.  The  result  of  the  contest'  has  temr  nated 
fiavourably  for  the  public,  who  have  ever  nnce  been  put  into  possearion  )f  (he 
dtfSntes  of  both  Housci^  through  the  meditim  of  newspaper  reportcn^ 


IMPRISONMENT  OF  THE  PBINTEB.  S51 

the  cabinet  puts  forth  the  countenance  of  parliament,  and 
marches  against  the  coiiititutiou  under  the  shelter  of  the 
Isllowed  frailly. 

What  has  an  Englishman  now  to  hope  for  ?  He  must  turn 
from  King.  Lords,  and  Commons,  and  look  up  to  God  and  him> 
self  if  he  means  to  be  free.  He  sees  the  representation  of 
tho  kingdom  taken  from  the  people,  the  law  dispensed  with, 
the  obligation  of  a  contract  erased,  the  liberty  of  the  subject 
invaded,  the  freedom  of  the  press  violated,  by  the  House  of 
Commons.  By  the  House  of  Lords  he  sees  liberty,  property, 
and  the  freedom  of  the  press  assaulted  likewise,  and  the  deci- 
sion *  of  justice  in  its  last  resort  a  question  of  influence,  not 
of  law.  He  beholds  three  supreme  powers  instead  of  one, 
and  the  constitution  a  separate  plunder  to  each ;  or  rather  he 
beholds  one  estate  possessed  of  the  power  by  the  profligacy  of 
the  rest.  If  the  cabinet  should  prevail,  we  shall  not  only  be 
enslaved,  but  disgraced.  The  man  and  means  that  enslave 
ns  would  be  an  additional  dishonour. 

An  Englishman^  and  Enemy  to  the  Cabinet  there/we. 


LETTER  XCIIIf. 

For  the  Public  Advertiser. 

March  29, 1771. 

TO     raE     LOBD     MAYOB,     MB.    ALDUBMAH    OUVEB,     AND     MB 

ALDEBMAN  WILKES. 

Ht  Lord  and  Gsnilexen, 
As  your  conduct  in  regard  to  the  business  of  the  printers  is 
become  the  universal  subject  of  conversation,  I  will  take  the 
liberty  of  communicating  my  sentiments  to  you  in  this  public 

*  In  the  case  of  Lord  Pomfret  and  Smith. 

t  There  it  some  doubt  as  to  the  genuineness  of  this  as  well  as  of  the  en- 
suing letter ;  but  as  they  are  iUustrative  of  one  of  Junius's  most  important 
letters,  No.  44^  vol.  i.  p.  828,  as  they  are  excellently  composed,  and  th* 
subject  has  been  in  some  measure  recently  agitated,  the  edUor  could  not  con- 
sent to  suppress  them.  The  quotation  from  Hawkins,  inserted  in  the  secono 
letter,  will  be  found  adopted  hj  Junius  as  one  of  his  notes  to  tile  ktler  jim 
Bfrfuiedtoti 


3&d  MIBGELLAHEOV.  S   LETTEEIS   ASCRIBED  TO  JUNIUS 

manner.  The  business  first  openad  with  a  printer's  being 
taken  up  by  virtue  of  the  King's  proclamation,  and  carriea 
before  Mr.  Alderman  Wilkes  (who  was  sitting  as  a  justice  of 
the  peace  for  the  city  of  London)  in  order  to  his  being  com- 
mitted by  virtue  of  that  proclamation  only.  Mr.  Wilkes  dis 
charged  the  printer,  and  upon  his  complaint,  verified  upon 
oath,  bound  over  the  apprehender  to  appear  at  the  quarter- 
sessions,  and  the  printer  to  prosecute  for  an  assault.  In  con 
sidering  the  legality  of  this  proceeding  I  will  totally  lay  out 
of  the  question  the  privileges  and  franchises  of  the  city  of 
London,  as  I  think  this  part  of  the  case  does  not  require  any 
assistance  from  them,  though  they  may  be  very  material  in 
the  subsequent  proceedings  as  to  the  messenger  of  the  House 
of  Commons.  The  first  consideration  then  will  be,  what  was 
the  force  and  effect  of  the  proclamation?  In  Judge  Dalison!s 
Reports,  which  is  a  book  of  authority,  p.  20,  2  and  3  Phil, 
and  Mary,  it  is  said,  **  Note,  It  was  agreed  for  law,  that  the 
king  may  make  a  proclamation  to  his  subjects  qito  ad  terrorem 
populi,  to  put  them  in  fear  of  his  displeasure,  but  not  upon 
other  pain  certain,  as  to  forfeit  their  lands  or  goods,  or  to 
make  fine,  or  to  suffer  imprisonment  or  other  pain:  for  no 
proclamation  shall  make  a  law  which  was  not  before,  but  may 
confirm  ond  ratify  an  ancient  law,  but  not  change  it,  or  make 
a  new  one ;  yet  diverse  precedents  were  shewn  out  of  the  ex- 
chequer to  the  contrary,  but  the  justices  would  not  have  any 
regard  to  them,  quod  nota."  And  in  the  llith  part  of  Sir 
Edward  Coke's  Report,  which  is  a  book  of  the  highest  autho- 
rity, p.  74,  in  the  8  Ja.  1st  (when  prerogative  ran  high),  you 
will  find  a  case,  called  the  case  of  proclamations,  which, 
iimongst  other  things,  contains  these  resolutions :  "  That  the 
King  by  his  proclamation  or  otherways  cannot  change  any 
part  of  the  common  law,  or  statute  law,  or  the  customs  of  the 
realm."  **  That  the  King  cannot  create  any  offence  by  his 
prohibition  or  proclamation  which  was  not  an  ofl«nce  before;" 
and  that  **that  which  cannot  be  punished  without  proclaauUios 
cannot  be  punished  with  it."  That  the  King  may  by  his 
proclamation  admonish  his  subjects  to  keep  the  laws,  but  can- 
n  )t  make  a  thing  unlawful  which  the  law  permits  And  this, 
as  the  learned  reporter  observes,  was  well  proved  by  the  an- 
cient and  continual  foiins  of  indictments,  for  all  indictmente 
'X>nclude  xmtra   leQern  et  consuetudinem  Anglitf^  or  con*** 


IMPBISOKUENT  OF  THE   PBINTERS  f^oZ 

leges  et  statula,  tic. — '*  but  never  was  seen  an  indictment  tc 
conclude  covtra  retjtam  proclamatlonem.** 

The  learned  reporter  puts  several  instances  of  illegal  pro- 
clamations,  and  amongst  the  rest  this :  An  act  was  made  by 
which  foreigners  were  licensed  to  merchandise  within  London. 
Hen.  IV.  by  proclamation  prohibited  the  execution  of  it,  and 
that  it  should  be  in  suspense  usqve  ad  proximum  parliamen- 
turn,  which,  says  the  learned  reporter,  was  against  law.  Vide 
Dors.  Glaus.  8  Hen.  IV. — Proclamation  in  London.  Here 
give  me  leave  to  make  one  observation,  that  any  proclamation 
which  infringes  the  ancient  customs,  privileges,  and  fi-anchises 
of  the  city  of  London,  infringes  the  statute  laws  of  this  land ; 
for  the  customs,  privileges,  and  franchises  of  the  city  of  Lon- 
don are  confirmed  and  established  by  various  acts  of  parlia- 
ment. The  case  still  goes  on,  and  says  that  the  law  of  Eng- 
land is  divided  into  three  parts,  common  law,  statute  law,  and 
custom ;  '*  but  the  King's  proclamation  is  none  of  them." 
And  the  learned  reporter  concludes  in  saying:  "after  this 
resolution  no  proclamation  imposing  fine  and  imprisonment 
was  made ;  *'  and  1  have  no  doubt  but  the  learned  reporter 
thought  that  after  this  solemn  decision  no  such  proqlama- 
tions  would  ever  be  issued  in  any  future  times ;  but  alas ! 
he  did  not  see  the  jurisprudence  of  the  reign  of  George 
the  Third. 

I  think  I  may  call  this  case  a  solemn  determination,  be- 
cause it  was  settled  upon  great  deliberation  by  the  two  Chief 
Justices,  the  Chief  Baron,  and  Baron  Altham,  upon  confe- 
rence betwixt  the  Lords  of  the  Privy  Council  and  them. 
When  the  printer  was  brought  before  Mr.  Wilkes,  Mr. 
Wilkes  acted  as  a  magistrate,  and  in  a  judicial  cspacity; 
•nd  had  he  imprisoned  the  printer,  or  any  other  subject  of 
this  kingdom  upon  less  evidence  than  the  law  required,  he 
would  have  been  highly  criminal.  And  in  a  case  where  the 
liberty  of  the  subject  was  concerned,  it  required  the  best  and 
the  highest  evidence  to  justify  the  deprivation  of  that  liberty. 
The  law  and  rules  of  evidence  **  are  part  of  the  common  law 
of  the  land,"  and  the  King  cannot  "  by  his  proclamation  alter 
or  suspend  any  of  those  laws  or  rules ; "  for  that  would  be  to 
alter  the  law  of  the  land,  and  be  in  direct  opposition  to  those 
respectable  authorities  I  have  cited.  It  is  a  law  and  a  n:le 
of  evidence,  that  no  judge  or  justice  can  judicially  take  notice 

VOJL.  II.  A   A 


854  MISCELLANEOUS  LETTEB8  ASCBIBED  TO  JUNIUS. 

of  a  private  act  of  parliament,  much  less  can  they  judiciallj 
cake  notice  of  a  private  order  of  the  House  of  Commona 
relative  to  two  individuals  only.  Nay,  if  you  add  to  it  the 
sanction  of  the  royal  proclamation,  and  consider  it  as  the  act 
of  the  King  and  Commons,  does  it  mend  the  matter  ?  DOO0 
it  give  it  greater  authority  in  point  of  legal  evidence  than  an 
act  of  parliament  ?  I  should  he  glad  to  be  informed  if  the 
constitution  has  given  such  an  arbitrary  power  of  imprison- 
ment to  the  House  of  Commons  as  they  claim,  why  it  has 
not  given  them  proper  officers  to  enforce  it  without  resorting 
to  the  King  ?  Why  has  not  the  seijeant-at-arms  a  power  to 
raise  the  posse  comitatus  ?     Why  are  not  people  punishable 

|fo£jiot  giving  him  assistance ?  And  yet  I  dare  say  there  is 
not  a  law  book  that  has  attributed  this  power  to  him,  nor  did 
we  ever  hear  of  a  person  punished  for  refusing  him  assistance, 
which  in  my  apprehension  is  a  strong  argument  against  the 
power  claimed  by  the  House  of  Commons  against  the  prin- 
ters.    I  should  be  glad,  too,  to  be  informed  what  law,  usage, 

*  or  custom,  has  made  the  King  the  minister  to  authenticate 
the  orders  of  the  House  of  Commons ;  when  it  first  began,  and 
where  it  is  to  be  found.  By  what  writ  or  authority  does  the 
order  come  before  the  King  to  be  authenticated,  and  where  is 
it  to  be  found  ?  I  never  yet  saw  any  statute,  case,  or  even 
dictum  to  authorise  this.  And  if  the  law  has  not  intrusted 
the  King  with  the  power  of  authenticating  the  orders  of  the 
House  of  Commons  by  his  royal  proclamation,  every  judge 
and  justice  in  this  kingdom  will  do  right  in  paying  no  regard 
to  them  under  such  a  sanction.  I  have  known  trials  where 
it  has  been  necessary  to  give  in  evidence  the  proceedings  and 
determinations  of  the  House  of  Commons,  which  have  always 
been  done  by  proving  them  upon  oath  to  be  true  copies  of  the 
journals  by  the  witness  who  examined  them.  And  though 
Mr.  Wilkes  might  be  convinced  in  his  mind  that  there  was 
such  an  order  as  stated  in  the  proclamation,  he  could  not  in 
bis  judicial  capacity  take  notice  of  it,  as  it  was  not  authenti- 
cated according  to  law.  This  doctiine  has  been  illustrated  in 
a  modern  instance.  Did  not  the  present  Chief  Justice  of  the 
King's  Bench  and  his  brethren  refuse  to  take  judicial  notice 
of  Mr.  Wilkes  when  he  surrendered  himself  in  order  to  the 
reversal  of  his  outlawry,  because  he  did  not  come  properly 
auihendcated  before  them^  although  1  fancy  they  had  very 


JUSTlFICA'nON   OF   MR.    WILKEB.  855 

little  doubt  in  their  minds  as  to  the  identity  of  his  person  ? 
So  upon  the  same  principles  Mr.  Wilkes  was  well  warranted 
in  rejecting  the  proclamation ;  and  that  being  out  of  the  way, 
I  think  it  will  then  be  so  clear  that  Mr.  Wilkes  would  have 
done  right  in  committing  the  assailant  upon  the  printer,  if 
he  had  not  given  bail,  as  not  to  admit  of  an  argument. 

I  have  two  observations  to  make  upon  the  late  attempt  of 
enforcing  the  order  of  the  House  of  Commons  by  the  royal 
proclamation.  First,  that  the  calling  in  the  aid  of  the  King 
upon  that  occasion  was  weakening  the  authority  and  dignity 
of  the  House,  and  tends  to  make  the  execution  of  the  orders 
of  that  House  dependent  upon  the  pleasure  of  the  King ;  and 
in  the  next  place  such  an  interposition  on  the  part  of  the 
King  carries  this  appearance  with  it  to  the  public,  that  it  is 
not  the  independence  or  the  just  liberties  and  privileges  of 
the  Commons  of  England  that  are  thus  anxiously  sought  to 
be  preserved,  but  the  gratification  of  the  spleen  and  resent- 
ment (to  say  no  worse  of  it)  of  the  administration.  I  shall 
conclude  this  letter  by  saying,  and  thinking  till  I  am  better 
informed,  that  the  late  proclamation  was  an  unwarrantable 
exertion  of  power,  tending  to  mislead  all  judges  and  justices 
throughout  England,  and  to  put  them  upon  imprisoning  an 
English  subject  contrary  to  law,  and  the  rules  of  evidence, 
which  make  part  of  the  "law  of  this  kingdom ;  and  therefore  I, 
for  one,  applaud  the  conduct  of  Mr.  Wilkes  in  this  instance 
In  another  letter  I  shall  deliver  my  sentiments  as  to  the  pro- 
ceedings of  your  Lordship,  Mr.  Alderman  Oliver,  and  Mr. 
Alderman  Wilkes,  when  the  messenger  of  the  House  ( f 
Commons  was  brought  before  you.  I  have  forborne  to  take 
this  business  up  on  the  same  grounds  that  Mr.  Morris  has 
done,  as  it  would  only  be  a  repetition  of  what  he  has  very 
judiciously  before  transmitted  to  the  public*.     It  is  sufficient 

*  Bobert  Morris,  Esq.,  was  a  member  oj^  and  secretary  to,  the  Bill  of 
Bights  Society.  At  their  meeting  in  order  to  discuss  the  question  of  the 
arrest  of  the  printers,  he  thus  addressed  the  chairman ;  and  it  is  to  this 
fpeech  the  writer  of  the  above  letter  refers : — 

**  Mr.  Chairman, — The  proclamation  issued  for  apprehending  the  printers  is, 
on  all  hands,  I  think,  allowed  to  be  illegal.  I  do  not  believe  that  there  is  in 
the  whole  kingdom  a  lawyer's  clerk  who  does  not  know  it  to  be  equally  re- 
pugnant to  the  spirit  and  letter  of  the  law  and  the  constitution.  The  law, 
though  not  so  well  known,  is  as  clear  against  commitments  by  the  House  of 
Gonimons.     They  have  nothing  to  support  their  pretcnsi:ns  but  their  own 

A  A   ^ 


wKm^Km^^^^^^^mmmmmimmmrmfmfmmm'^mmmK^^ftK 


856  MISCKLLANEOUS   LETTEBS  ASCRIBED   TO  JUNIUS. 

for  me  to  say  that  I  think  he  has  sufficiently  demonstrated  the 
illegality  of  the  order  of  the  House  of  Commons;  I  only 
meant  to  give  additional  strength  to  his  observations ;  and  if 
any  man  will  coolly  consider  the  whole  case,  argument  wiil 
continually  crowd  upon  his  mind  to  evince  the  illegality  and 
injustice  of  the  order  and  royal  proclamation. 

I  am. 
My  Lord  and  Gentlemen, 

Your  most  humble  Servant, 

a.  w^ 


LETTER  XCIV. 
For  the  Public  Advertiser, 

April  8,  irn. 

70  THE  LORD  MATOB,  MR.  ALDERMAN  OLIYEB,  AND  M& 

ALDERMAN  WILKES. 

Mt  Lord  akd  Qentlxmbn, 
In  my  first  letter  I  submitted  my  reasons  why  Mr.  Wilkes 
could  not,  in  his  judicial  capacity,  take  notice  of  the  order  of 
the  House  of  Commons,  merely  under  the  sanction  of  the 
royal  proclamation.  If  I  was  right  in  that,  it  was  totally  im- 
material whether  the  order  of  the  House  of  Commons  as  to 
the  printers  was  legal  or  illegal,  for  in  either  case  Mr.  Wilkess 
conduct  was  agreeable  to  law.    And  in  either  case,  the  ex 

vote,  which  certainly  is  not  liinding  on  any  but  themselves ;  an  act  of  three 
branches  of  the  legislature  being  the  only  authority  that  is,  besides  the  com- 
mon law,  acknowledged  by  Kngland  as  valid.  Matters  being  thus  cimim- 
stanced,  I  am  sorry  to  find  that  such  magistrates  of  London  as  belong  to  this 
Society  do  not  afford  protection  to  the  printers,  and  rescue  them  from  lawless 
violence.  My  concern  for  this  neglect,  this  fear,  or  this  tergiversation,  is  the 
greater,  that  if  the  oiBcers  of  the  House  of  Commons,  or  any  other  person  but 
a  minister  of  this  city  properly  authorized,  takes  these  obnoxious  men  into 
custody,  the  rights  of  the  city  are  violated  ;  it  being  legally  impossible  for 
King,  Lords,  and  Commons,  to  seize  any  citizen  of  London  without  the  con- 
sent of  its  own  mngistrates.  Were  they  even  to  make  an  act  for  that  purpose 
it  could  not  have  any  force,  because  the  act  made  in  favour  of  the  city  in  the 
reign  of  William  and  Mary  ought  to  be  considered  as  a  constitution,  and  as 
irreversible  as  Magna  Charta — for  indeed  it  is  the  Magna  Charta  of  the 
oity." 


mSPDTE   WITH  ^liE   HOUSE   OF  COMMONS  357 

pungiug  oi'  the  proceedings  taken  before  bini,  be  it  by  vvbat 
order  it  may,  was  a  flagrant  violation  of  tbe  law,  and  a  very 
dangerous  obstruction  to  the  execution  of  criminal  justice.  J 
will  next  consider  tbe  subsequent  proceedings  as  to  the 
messenger  of  the  House  of  Commons,  who  was  brought  before 
you,  as  magistrates  of  the  City  of  London,  and  charged  upon 
oath  with  having  committed  a  breach  of  the  peace,  in  assault- 
ing and  imprisoning  one  of  your  citizens.  The  messenger 
justified  the  fact  under  a  warrant  signed  by  the  Speaker  of 
the  House  of  Commons,  which  I  shall  state  more  particularly 
hereafter,  but  at  present  it  is  not  necessary. 

This  justification  necessarily  brought  the  validity  of  tho 
Speaker's  warrant  collaterally  in  question  before  you.  Some 
people,  who  have  in  general  applauded  your  conduct  in  this 
business,  have  said  that  you  went  too  far  in  signing  a  warrant 
of  commitment  of  the  messenger,  and  in  obliging  him  to  give 
bail.  As  you  deemed  the  Speaker's  warrant  illegal,  you  could 
not  do  otherwise;  it  was  the  necessary  consequence  and  judg- 
ment upon  the  complaint  before  you.  You  would  have  been 
guilty  of  a  breach  of  duty,  as  magistrates,  if  you  had  adjudged 
the  messenger  guilty  of  a  breach  of  peace,  and  not  have  com- 
mitted him,  or  bound  him  over  to  answer  the  offence  in  a  due 
course  of  law.  One  of  the  greatest  privileges  assumed  by 
either  House  of  Parliament  is  that  of  having  their  privileges 
(as  they  call  them)  examined  and  inquired  into  in  their  own 
Houses  only.  And  if  this  can  be  established  as  the  law  of 
England,  any  subject  may  be  deprived  of  his  life,  liberty,  and 
property,  by  an  arbitrary  vote  of  either  House,  under  the  name 
of  privilege  of  parliament.  It  will  be  said  that  this  is  q,  foreign 
presumption,  and  that  we  cannot  suppose  that  those  respect- 
able characters  in  the  Houses  of  Parliament  would  invade  th« 
liberties  of  the  people.  I  must  own  I  think,  from  some  late 
exertions,  there  is  no  room  left  for  presumptions ;  but  be  that 
as  it  may,  I  think  the  liberties  of  England  ought  to  stand 
upon  a  more  solid  basis  than  presumptions,  or  the  arbitrary 
voice  of  one  branch  of  the  legislature  only. 

The  cases  to  prove  that  the  assumed  privileges  of  either 
House  of  Parliamnnt  are  not  examinable  elsewhere  than  in 
their  own  Houses,  are  TiOrd  Shaftsbury  s  case,  29  Car.  2  in 
B.  B  ;  tlie  Queen  t;.  Paty  &  alias,  3  Ann.  in  B.  fl.:  and  tlie 


B^S  MISC£IJi4NK0US   LETTCBS  ASCKIBKD  TO  JUNIUS. 

^lon.  Alexander  Murray's  case,  ^i  Geo.  2.  in  B.  R.  Id  al* 
cases  adjudged  upon  constitutional  points,  regard  should  be 
had  to  the  temper  of  the  times  when  thej  happeaed,  and  the 
oharacters,  connections,  and  dependencies  of  the  judges.  If 
these  circumstances  be  attended  to  in  Lord  Shaftsburj  s  case, 
I  am  very  sure  it  will  be  found  to  be  a  precedent  of  no  weight 
or  authority.  Lord  Shaftsbury  was  a  man  exceedingly  ob- 
noxious to  King  Charles  the  Second,  having  in  the  House  of 
Lords  violently  opposed  that  arbitrary  prince,  and  his  attempts, 
to  introduce  popery  into  this  kingdom.  The  King  s  designs 
were  no  secret ;  and  the  independent  members  in  the  House 
of  Commons  had  meditated  means  to  prevent  the  execution 
of  them.  The  King,  to  frustrate  this,  prorogued  the  parlia- 
ment for  fifteen  months,  within  a  few  days,  being  the  longest 
prorogation  which  had  been  then  known.  Tiie  King  had  also 
found  means,  by  pensioning  many  of  the  members  of  the 
Lower  House,  to  gain  a  considerable  influence  in  it;  and  the 
dissolution  of  parliament  was  then  (as  it  is  now)  a  thing 
earnestly  to  be  sought  for.  Upon  the  meeting  of  the  parliament 
after  this  long  prorogation,  a  question  was  propounded  in  the 
House  of  Lords  by  the  country  party,  whether  it  was  not  ac- 
tually dissolved.  Lord  Shaftsbury,  and  others  of  that  party, 
argued  and  maintained  upon  an  old  statute  of  King  Edward 
the  Third,  then  in  force,  which  directed  that  the  King  should 
call  a  parliament  once  a  year,  or  oftener  if  need  should  be, 
that  the  parliament  was  actually  dissolved;  but  the  court 
party  strenuously  opposed  this,  knowing  that  the  eyes  of  the 
people  were  opened,  and  that  a  new  parliament  would  not  be 
favourable  to  the  King's  designs. 

This  question  had  made  a  great  noise  in  the  kingdom,  and 
by  way  of  silencing  the  people,  the  King's  party  in  the  House 
of  Lords  voted  Lord  Shaftsbury,  Lord  Salisbury,  and  Lord 
Wharton,  who  had  maintained  that  the  parliament  was  dis- 
solved, guilty  of  a  contempt  of  that  House,  and  sent  them  to 
the  Tower :  that  they  were  sent  to  the  Tower  to  gratify  the 
King's  vengeance  is  apparent  from  the  words  of  the  warrant  of 
commitment,  for  it  directs  them  to  be  kept  in  safe  custody 
during  his  Majesty's  pleasure  and  the  pleasure  of  the  House, 
for  their  high  contempt  committed  against  that  House.  Iiord 
Salisbury  and  Lord  Wharton  submit'od  to  the  He  use,  and 


DISPUTE  WITH   THE   H0D8K   OF   COMMONS.  359 

were  discharged;  Lord  Shaftsbury  at  first  refused  it,  and 
sued  out  his  Habeas  Corpus,  and  was  brought  before  the 
King*s  Bench  with  the  warrant  of  his  commitment. 

The  warrant  was  glaringly  illegal  and  unconstitutional,  and 
seems  to  be  admitted  by  all  judges  in  that  case  to  be  so,  parti- 
cularly Mr.  Justice  Wylde,  who  said  the  return  no  doubt  was  ille- 
gal. This  was  a  critical  case ;  in  fact,  it  was  the  King's  cause, 
and  the  judges  to  determine  it  at  that  time  held  their  offices 
during  the  pleasure  of  the  crown,  so  that  they  were  reduced 
to  an  awkward  dilemma ;  however,  they  found  means  to  extri- 
cate themselves  frcpa  it  by  determining  that  though  the  com- 
mitment was  illegal  they  could  not  examine  into  it,  and  so 
Lord  Shaftsbury  was  remanded ;  and  the  three  puisne  judges 
on  the  case  of  the  Queen  v.  Paty  &  alias,  as  also  the  judges  in 
Mr.  Murray's  case,  seem  implicitly  to  have  followed  the  de- 
termination in  Lord  Shaftsbury  s  case,  and  therefore  if  that 
determination  be  overthrown,  the  other  two  must  sink  of 
course.  In  the  case  of  the  Queen  v.  Paty  &  alias,  3  Ann.  the 
defendants  having  been  committed  to  Newgate  by  a  warrant 
of  the  Speaker  of  the  House  of  Commons,  signed  Robert 
Harley,  Speaker  (a  fatal  name  to  liberty),  were  brought  by 
Habeas  Corpus  into  the  Queen's  Bench,  and  prayed  to  be  dis- 
charged upon  the  illegality  of  the  commitment.  The  three 
puisne  judges  refused  to  interfere  upon  the  authority  of  Lord 
Shaftsbury's  case,  and  the  prisoners  were  remanded,  conti'ary 
to  the  opinion  of  Lord  Chief  Justice  Holt,  one  of  the  ablest 
judges  that  ever  presided  in  that  court.  He  was  of  opinion 
that  what  the  House  had  called  a  breach  of  privilege  was  not 
a  breach  of  privilege,  nor  could  their  judgment  make  it  so,  not 
conclude  that  court  from  determining  contrary ;  and  he  says, 
**When  the  House  of  Commons  exceed  their  legal  bounds 
and  authority,  their  acts  are  wrongful  and  cannot  be  justified 
more  than  the  acts  of  private  men :  that  there  was  no  question 
but  their  authority  is  from  the  law,  and  as  it  is  circumscribed, 
80  it  may  be  exceeded.  To  say  they  are  judges  of  their  own 
privilege  and  their  own  authority,  and  nobody  else,  is  to  make 
their  privileges  to  be  as  they  would  have  them.  If  there  be 
a  wrongful  imprisonment  by  the  House  of  Commons  what 
court  shall  deliver  the  party?  Shall  we  say  there  is  nu 
redress,  and  that  we  are  not  able  to  execute  those  laws  upuu 
which  the  liberty  of  the  Queen's  people  subsist^)  ?     To  con- 


360  MISCELLANEOUS  LETTEES  ASCRIBED   TO  JUNIUS. 

elude,  all  courts  are  so  far  judges  of  their  own  privileges,  and 
entrusted  with  a  power  to  vindicate  themselves,  that  they  maj 
punish  for  contempts ;  but  to  make  the^m,  or  any  court,  final 
judges  of  them,  exclusive  of  everybody  else,  is  to  introduce  a 
state  of  confusion  by  making  every  man  judge  in  his  own 
cause  and  subverting  the  measures  of  all  jurisdictions."  What 
says  another  learned  lawyer,  Mr.  Serjeant  Hawkins,  in  his 
Pleas  of  the  Crown,  p.  110? — In  commenting  upon  Lord 
Shaftsbury's  case  he  says,  "  But  if  it  be  demanded  in  case  a 
subject  should  be  committed  by  either  of  those  Houses  for  a 
matter  manifestly  out  of  their  jurisdiction,  what  remedy  can 
he  have  ?  I  answer,  that  it  cannot  well  be  imagined  that  the 
law  which  favours  nothing  more  than  the  liberty  of  the  subject 
should  give  us  a  remedy  against  commitments  by  the  King 
himself,  appearing  to  be  illegal,  and  yet  give  us  no  manner  of 
redress  against  a  commitment  by  our  fellow-subjects,  equally 
appearing  to  be  unwarranted."  To  this  I  may  add  the  dictum 
of  the  present  Speaker  of  fiie  House  of  Commons  when 
counsel*,  who  is  reported  to  have  said,  that  had  he  the 
honour  to  preside  in  any  court  of  justice,  he  should  no  more 
regard  the  resolutions  of  that  House  than  the  resolutions  of  a 
set  of  drunken  porters.  Some  apology  may  be  made  for  the 
judges  in  the  case  of  the  Queen  v.  Paty  &  alias.  They  might 
coimive  at  a  stretch  of  power  in  the  House  of  Commons,  for 
fear  of  weakening  the  dignity  and  independence  of  the  House : 
and  if  ever  that  can  be  justifiable,  it  was  so  then,  because  the 
House  was  truly  honourable  and  independent ;  for  no  place- 
man or  pensioner  was  then  capable  6f  sitting  in  that  House. 
Very  different  is  it  at  this  time:  the  House  swarms  witlj 
placemen  and  pensioners,  and  the  people  want  a  banier  to 
guard  them  from  the  invasions  of  their  own  representatives. 

But  if  such  a  dangerous  position  is  to  be  established  as  that, 
though  the  order  of  the  House  be  apparently  illegal,  no  court 
of  magistrates  can  give  redress,  a  door  will  be  opened  through 
the  House  of  Commons  to  elude  all  those  excellent  laws 
which  our  ancestors  have  procured  for  the  preservation  of  our 
liberties,  and  to  overturn  the  fundamental  principles  of  the 
constitution.  But  let  us  hope  that  by  such  weak  authorities 
as  the  three  cases  cited,  the  liberties  of  England  are  not  to 

*  Sir  Fletcher  Nurtoii. 


A  WHIG   ON   PARLTAMENTARr   PRIVILEGES.  38 1 

be  detftrmined.  In  another  fetter  1  will  trouble  you  with  my 
sentiments  upon  the  privileges  of  the  House  of  Commons, 
and  the  warrant  of  commitment*. 

I  am, 
My  Lord  and  Gentlemen, 

Your  most  humble  servant, 

G.  W 


LETTER  XCV. 

TO  THE   PRINTER   OF  THE   PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 

Sib,  April  9,  1771. 

The  arguments  used  in  defence  of  the  late  proceedings  ol 
the  House  of  Commons  would  have  a  considerable  weight  with 

*  This  promised  letter  did  not  appear,  though  the  same  subject  is  pursued 
in  the  following  letter,  as  well  as  under  the  more  dignified  signature  ol 
Junius,  and  occurs  iii  the  letters  with  this  subscription,  No.  4ti,  vol.  i. 
p.  828. 

To  ite  arguments  and  opinions  both  there  and  here  cited  upon  the  autho- 
rity of  royal  proclamations,  and  powers  of  privfleges  of  parliament,  the  editor 
will,  on  this  occasion,  take  the  liberty  of  adding  the  following  decision  on 
the  same  point  by  that  great  and  constitutional  judge.  Lord  Chief  Justice 
Holt. 

"  In  the  reign  of  Queen  Anne,  in  1704,  several  freemen  of  the  borough  of 
Aylesbury  had  been  refused  the  liberty  of  voting  at  an  election  for  a  membex 
of  parliament,  though  they  proved  their  qualitications  as  such ;  the  law  in 
this  case  imposes  a  fine  on  the  returning  officer  of  £100  for  every  such  offence. 
On  this  principle  they  applied  to  Lord  Chief  Justice  Holt,  who  desired  the 
officer  to  be  arrested.  The  House  of  Commons,  alarmed  at  this  step,  made 
an  order  of  their  House  to  make  it  penal  for  either  judge,  counsel,  or  at- 
torney, to  assist  at  the  trial.  However,  the  Lord  Chief  Justice,  and  several 
lawyers,  were  hardy  enough  to  oppose  this  order,  and  brought  it  on  in  the 
King's  Bench.  The  Hous6,  highly  irritated  at  this  contempt  of  their  orders, 
sent  a  serjeant-at-arms  for  the  judge  to  appear  before  them ;  but  that  reso- 
'  lute  defender  of  the  laws  bade  him,  with  a  voice  of  authority,  begone ;  on 
which  they  sent  a  second  message  by  their  Speaker,  attended  by  as  many 
members  'as  espoused  the  measure.  After  the  Speaker  had  delivered  hii 
message,  his  Lordship  replied  to  him  in  these  remarkable  words : — '  Go  back 
to  your  chair,  Mr.  Speaker,  within  these  five  minutes,  or  you  may  depend 
on't  111  send  you  to  Newgate.  Yon  speak  of  your  authority ;  but  I  tell  you 
I  sit  here  as  an  inteqireter  of  the  laws  and  a  distributer  of  justice,  and,  were 
the  whole  House  of  Commons  in  your  belly,  I  will  not  stir  one  foot.'  The 
Speaker  was  pnident  enough  to  retire,  and  the  House  were  eqiuiUy  prudeni 
to  let  the  affiiir  drop." 


862         IffSCZLLANEOUS  LETTERS  ASCRIBED   TO  JUNIUS. 

me,  if  I  could  persuade  myself  that  the  present  House  of  Com 
mens  were  really  in  that  independent  state  in  which  the  con- 
stitution meant  to  place  them.  If  I  could  he  satisfied  that 
their  resolutions  were  not  previously  determined  in  the  King's 
cabinet,  that  no  personal  resentment  was  to  be  gratified,  nor 
any  ministerial  purpose  to  be  answered,  under  pretence  of  as- 
serting their  privileges,  I  oviti  I  should  be  very  unwilling  to 
raise  or  encourage  any  question  between  the  strict  right  of  the 
subject,  and  that  discretionary  power  which  our  representa- 
tives have  assumed  by  degrees,  and  which,  until  of  late  years, 
they  have  very  seldom  abused.  While  the  House  of  Com- 
mons form  a  real  representation  of  the  people,  while  they 
preserve  their  place  in  the  constitution,  distinct  from  the 
Lords,  and  independent  of  the  Crown,  I  think  to  contend  with 
them  about  the  limits  of  their  privileges  would  be  contending 
with  ourselves*.  But  the  question  will  be  materially  altered 
if  it  should  appear  that,  instead  of  preserving  the  due  balance 
of  the  constitution,  they  have  thrown  their  whole  weight  into 
the  same  scale  with  the  Crown,  and  that  their  privileges,  in- 
stead of  forming  a  barrier  against  the  encroachments  of  the 
other  branches  of  the  legislature,  are  made  subservient  to  the 
views  of  the  Sovereign,  and  employed,  under  the  direction  of 
the  minister,  in  the  persecution  of  individuals,  and  the  oppres- 
sion of  the  people.  In  this  case  it  would  be  the  duty  of  every 
honest  man  to  stand  strictly  to  his  right ;  to  question  every 
act  of  such  a  House  of  Commons  with  jealousy  and  suspicion, 
and  wherever  their  pretended  privileges  trenched  upon  the 
known  laws  of  the.  land,  in  the  minutest  instance,  to  resist  f 
them  with  a  determined  and  scrupulous  exactness.  To  as- 
certain the  fact,  we  need  only  consider  in  what  manner  parlia- 
ments have  been  managed  since  his  Majesty  s  accession. 

He  found  this  country  in  that  state  of  perfect  union  and 
happiness  which  good  government  naturally  produces,  and 

*  The  necessity  of  securing  the  House  of  Commons  against  the  Einff*a 
power,  so  that  no  interruption  might  be  given  either  to  the  attendance  of  Uie 
members  in  parliament  or  to  the  freedom  of  debate,  was  the  foundation  of 
parliamentaiy  privilege ;  and  we  may  observe  in  all  the  addresses  of  newly- 
appointed  SpeajLers  to  the  Sovereign,  the  utmost  privilege  they  demand  is 
liberty  of  speech  and  freedom  from  arrests.  The  very  word  privilege  means 
no  more  than  immunity,  or  a  safeguard  to  the  party  who  possesses  it,  aiid  can 
•ever  be  construed  into  an  active  power  of  invading  tba  rights  of  others. 


A  WHIG  OK  PABLIAMENTARY  PBIYILEGES  363 

which  a  had  one  has  destroyed.  He  promised  t'j  abolibh  all 
distinctions  of  party,  and  kept  his  word  by  declaring  Lord 
Bute  his  favourite  and  minister,  by  proscribing  the  whole 
Whig  interest  of  England,  and  by  filling  every  place  of  trust 
and  profit  under  his  government  with  professed  Tories,  noto- 
rious Jacobites,  and  Scotchmen  of  all  denominations.  He 
abolished  no  distinctions  but  those  which  are  essential  to  the 
safety  of  the  constitution.  King,  Lords,  and  Commons,  which 
should  for  ever  stand  clear  of  each  other,  were  soon  melted 
down  into  one  common  mass  of  power,  while  equal  care  was 
taken  to  draw  a  line  of  separation  between  the  legislature  and 
the  people,  and  more  particularly  between  the  representative 
and  the  constituent  body  of  the  Commons.  The  Lower  House 
distinguished  themselves  by  an  eager  compliance  with  every 
measure  that  could  be  supposed  to  gratify  the  King  personally, 
or  to  humour  the  vindictive  passions  of  his  royal  mother. 
[When  Mr.  Wilkes  was  to  be  punished,  they  made  no  scruple 
about  the  privileges  of  parliament;  and  although  it  was  as 
well  known  as  any  matter  of  public  record  and  uninterrupted 
custom  could  be,  that  the  members  of  either  House  are  prim" 
leyed,  except  in  cases  of  treason^  felony,  or  breach  of  the  peace, 
they  declared  without  hesitation  that  privilege  of  parliament 
did  not  extend  to  the  case  of  a  seditious  libel ;  and  undoubtedly 
they  would  have  done  the  same  if  Mr.  Wilkes  had  been  pro- 
secuted for  any  other  misdemeanor  whatsoever.]  It  was 
upon  that  occasion  that  Sir  Fletcher  Norton,  the  patron  of 
privilege,  declared  in  the  House  that,  if  he  were  a  judge 
in  Westminster  Hall,  he  should  regard  a  vote  of  the  House 
of  Commons  no  more  than  a  resolution  of  a  company  of 
drunken  porters.  To  show  us  his  politeness  he  preserves 
his  style ;  to  show  us  his  morality  be  changes  his  opinions. 

The  House  of  Lords  have  not  been  less  pliant  in  surren- 
dering  the  rights  of  the  peerage,  whci^vver  it  has  suited  the 
purposes  of  the  cabinet.  They  j«)ined  heartily  in  the  vote 
nbove-meutioned,  and  when  they  v^ere  called  upon  to  support 
that  enormous  violation  of  all  law,  truth,  and  reason,  which 
was  perpetrated  by  the  House  of  Comme.cs  in  the  case  of 
the  Middlesex  election,  they  gave  up  that  reciprocal  check  and 
control  .by  which  the  balance  bet^veen  the  three  estates  can 

•  *  •     • 

Hione  be  preserved,  and  v/ere  cont«  nt  to  bury  their  own  pnvi- 


364      MISCELLANEOUS   LETTRRS   ASCRTBEP   TO  JUNTOS 

legfes  under  the  ruins  of  the  constitution,  me  influence  ol 
the  crown  over  the  resolutions  of  both  Houses  coatiuues  to 
operate  with  equal  force,  though  now  it  assumes  a  different 
appearance.  The  liberty  of  the  press,  besides  giving  a  daily 
personal  offence  to  the  Princess  of  Wales,  must  always  be  for- 
midable, therefore  always  odious  to  such  a  government  as  the 
present.  Prosecutions  had  been  attempted  without  success. 
The  privilege  of  parliament,  which  had  been  so  shamefully 
surrendered  to  answer  one  ministerial  purpose,  must  now  be 
as  violently  asserted  to  answer  another.  [The  ministry  are  of 
a  sudden  grown  wonderfully  careful  of  privileges  which  their 
predecessors  were  as  ready  to  invade.  The  knewn  laws  of  the 
land,  the  rights  of  the  subject,  the  sanctity  of  charters,  and  the 
reverence  due  to  our  magistrates,  must  all  give  way,  without 
question  or  resistance,  to  a  privilege  of  which  no  man  knows 
either  the  origin  or  the  extent.  The  House  of  Commons 
judge  of  their  own  privileges  without  appeal ;  they  may  take 
offence  at  the  most  innocent  action,  and  imprison  the  person 
who  offends  them  during  their  arbitrary  will  and  pleasure. 
The  party  has  no  remedy ;  he  cannot  appeal  from  their  juris- 
diction; and  if  he  questions  the  privilege,  which  he  is  sup- 
posed to  have  violated,  it  becomes  an  aggravation  of  his 
offence.  Surely,  Sir,  this  doctrine  is  not  to  be  found  in 
Magna  Charta.  If  it  be  admitted  without  limitation,  I  affirm 
that  there  is  neither  law  nor  liberty  in  this  kingdom.  We 
are  the  slaves  of  the  House  of  Commons,  and  through  them 
we  are  the  slaves  of  the  King  and  his  ministers.] 

The  mode  in  which  the  House  have  proceeded  against  the 
city  magistrates  can  neither  be  reconciled  to  natural  justice, 
nor  even  to  the  common  forms  of  decency.  They  begin  with 
shutting  the  doors  against  all  strangers^  the  usual  name  by 
which  they  describe  their  constituents.  Some  of  their  de- 
bates appear  in  the  public  papers.  The  offence,  if  any,  is 
certainly  not  a  new  one.  We  have  the  debates  as  regularly 
preserved  as  the  journals  of  parliament*;  nor  can  there  be 
any  honest  reason  for  ooncealing  them.  Mr.  Onslow,  how- 
ever, thinks  it  necessary  to  prosecute  the  press,  and  the 

*  Grey's  Collection  qf  Debates,  in  ten  Toliune^  waa  published  vadtr  tM 
diTCCtiou  of  the  late  Arthur  Onslow,  Esq. 


h   WUra   ON   PARLIAMENTiBT   PBlVILRGRg.  365 

Kouse  of  Commons  is  luean  enough  to  take  part  in  bis 
caprices.  Lord  North,  wlio  had  no  lately  rewarded  the 
Reverend  Mr.  Scot  with  the  best  living  in  the  King  s  gift, 
for  heaping  invectives  equally  dull  and  virulent  upon  some 
of  the  most  respectable  characters  in  this  kingdom,  is  now 
shameless  enough  to  support  a  motion  against  the  liberty  of 
the  press  with  the  whole  influence  of  the  crown.  [That 
their  practice  might  be  every  way  conformable  to  their  prin- 
ciples, the  House  proceeded  to  advise  the  crown  to  publish  a 
proclamation  universally  acknowledged  to  be  ille^.  Mr. 
Moreton  publicly  protested  against  it  before  it  was  issued; 
and  Lord  Mansfield,  though  not  scrupulous  to  an  extreme, 
speaks  of  it  with  horror.  It  is  remarkable  enough  that  the 
very  men  who  advised  the  proclamation,  and  who  hear  it 
arraigned  every  day  both  within  doors  and  without,  are  not 
daring  enough  to  utter  one  word  in  its  defence,  nor  have  they 
ventured  to  take  the  least  notice  of  Mr.  Wilkes  for  discharg* 
iug  the  persons  apprehended  under  it.] 

The  pretended  trial  of  the  Lord  Mayor  and  Mr.  Oliver  re- 
sembled the  dark  business  of  a  Spanish  inquisition,  rather 
than  the  fair  proceedings  of  an  English  court  of  judicature. 
These  gentlemen,  as  magistrates,  had  nothing  to  regard  but 
the  obligation  of  their  oaths,  and  the  execution  of  the  laws. 
If  they  were  convinced  that  the  Speaker's  warrant  was  not  a 
legal  authority  to  the  messenger,  it  necessarily  followed  that, 
when  he  was  charged  upon  oath  with  a  breach  of  the  peace, 
they  must  hold  him  to  bail.  They  had  no  option.  Yet  how 
have  they  been  treated?  Their  judges  had  been  partially 
summoned  by  treasury  mandates,  pressing  attendance,  and 
demanding  a  vote  of  condemnation.  They  were  tried  and 
condemned  at  midnight,  without  being  heard  by  themselves 
or  their  counsel,  on  the  only  point  on  which  their  justi- 
fication could  possibly  depend.  In  short.  Sir,  a  questior., 
strictly  of  jurisdiction,  was  referred  to  numbers,  and  carried 
like  a  common  ministerial  measure.  Their  next  step  was  to 
force  the  Lord  Mayor  s  clerk,  by  the  terror  of  a  prison,  to 
ei'ase  the  record  of  a  judicial  proceeding,  held  regularly  before 
the  chief  magistrate  of  the  city.  Lord  North  himself  made 
the  motion,  and  declared  that  the  constitution  could  not  be 
safe,  until  it  was  carried  into  effect.  They  then  resolved  that 
aO  prosecutions  for  the  assault  i which,  thotgh  charged  upon 


366  MISCELLANEOUS  LETTEB8  ASCRIBED  TO  JUNIUS. 

oath,  they  call  a  pretended  one)  should  be  slopped.  I  wish 
that  grave  and  sober  men  would  consider,  independently  of 
the  other  questions  before  us,  how  far  this  particular  prece 
dent  may  extend.  If  the  House  of  Commons  may  interpose 
in  a  single  instance,  between  the  subject  who  complains  and 
the  laws  which  ought  to  protect,  T  see  no  reason  why  they 
may  not,  at  any  time,  by  their  vote,  stop  the  whole  course  of 
justice  through  the  kingdom.  Besides  the  injury  done  to  the 
subject,  their  granting  a  noli  prosequi  is  in  effect  an  encroach- 
ment upon  the  royal  prerogative  *. 

Many  circumstances  of  insult  have  been  mixed  with  these 
measures  of  riolence.  Their  pretended  lenity  to  the  Lord 
Mayor,  which  he  nobly  refused  to  accept  of,  amounted  only  to 
an  offer  of  the  garrets  of  the  House  for  the  place  of  his  con- 
finement instead  of  the  Tower;  and,  though  it  be  of  less 
moment  it  is  still  worth  observing,  that  the  indignity  offered 
to  the  city  is  aggravated  by  the  time  expressly  chosen  for  im- 
prisoning their  chief  magistrate.  Not  content  with  interrupt- 
ing all  city  business,  they  fixed  upon  Easter,  because  it  is  the 
chief  city  festival,  and  found  a  contemptible  gratification  in 
putting  a  stop  to  the  amusements  usual  at  this  season,  and 
depriving  a  public  charity  of  the  customary  collections,  which 
they  knew  must  be  reduced  to  nothing  by  the  absence  of  the 
Lord  Mayor. 

Nothing  remained  but  to  keep  up  a  terror  and  alarm  throuoh 
the  kingdom  by  appointing  committees  of  inquiry.  This 
double  star-chamber  was  moved  for  long  after  midnight,  and 
lists  partially  sent  round  by  the  messengers  of  the  treasury. 
Where  will  these  arbitrary,  iniquitous  proceedings  end  ?  The 
ministry,  I  doubt  not,  have  a  plan  prepared,  but  it  is  such  a 
one  as  they  neither  dare  openly  avow  nor  uniformly  adhere  to. 
One  day  they  appoint  committees  of  inquisition  to  sit  de  die 

*  The  following  is  a  copy  of  the  minutes  of  the  House  of  Commont,  of 
March  20, 1771,  here  referred  to: — 

"  That  James  Morgan,  clerk  of  the  Lord  Mayor,  do  at  the  table  ex|Nin8t 
the  minutes  taken  before  the  Lord  Mayor,  relative  to  the  messenger  of  this 
House  giving  security  for  his  appearance  at  the  next  general  quarter-aessiont 
of  the  peace ;  and  he  accordingly  at  the  table  expunjjred  the  same. 
"  Motion  made,  and  question  proposed, 

"  That  no  other  prosecution,  suit,  or  proceeding,  be  commenced,  or  earned 
fo  for.  or  on  accoupt  of  the  snid  pretended  assault,  or  false  imprisonment. 

**lt  passed  in  the  affinnative." 


A   WHIG  ON  PARLIAMENTARY  PRIVILEGES.  367 

in  diem:  the  next  thing  we  hear  is  that  the  committees  are 
adjourned,  and  the  members  of  them  dispersed  into  the 
country.  After  advising  the  King,  very  unnecessarily,  to  go 
to  parliament,  they  come  to  him  while  his  equipage  is  in 
waiting,  contradict  their  own  advice,  and  endeavour  to  stagger 
bis  resolution  at  the  moment  when  he  has  most  occasion  for 
it.  They  alone  are  answerable  for  all  the  indignities  heaped 
upon  the  King  s  person,  since  they  could  not  but  foresee  that 
the  people  would  take  the  earliest  opportunity  of  resenting 
the  imprisonment  of  their  magistrates. 

When  the  Princess  of  Wales  was  named  in  the  House  of 
Commons,  where  was  that  zeal  which  some  people  boast  of  for 
their  royal  master?  The  mother  of  their  Sovereign  was 
branded  by  name  as  the  authoress  of  all  our  calamities,  and 
the  assertion  passed  without  censure  or  contradiction. 

Sir,  I  most  truly  lament  the  condition  to  which  we  ar« 
reduced,  and  the  more  so,  because  there  is  but  one  remedy  for 
it,  and  that  remedy  has  been  repeatedly  refused.  A  dissolu- 
tion of  the  parliament  would. restore  tranquillity  to  the  people, 
and  to  the  King  the  affections  of  his  subjects ;  the  present 
House  of  Commons  have  nothing  to  expect  but  contempt,  de- 
testation, and  resistance.  This  violent  state  of  things  cannot 
long  continue.  Either  the  laws  and  constitution  must  be  pre- 
served by  a  dreadful  appeal  to  the  sword,  or  (what  probably  is 
intended  by  the  present  system  of  measures)  the  people  will 
grow  weary  of  their  condition,  and  surrender  everything  into 
the  King  s  hands,  rather  than  submit  to  be  trampled  upon  any 
longer  by  five  hundred  of  their  equals.  ^ 

A  WHIG*. 

*  The  passages  in  this  letter  which  are  placed  within  brackets,  are  re^ 
transcribed  by  the  author,  and  added  as  notes  to  his  Letter  44,  vo].  i.  p.  328, 
published  in  his  own  edition,  under  the  signature  of  Junius,  where  the  reader 
will  BtiU  find  them. 

The  messengers  were  indicted  in  defiance  of  the  resolutions  of  the  House 
of  Commons,  and  true  bills  were  found  against  them,  but  further  proceed- 
ings were  stopped  by  the  Attorney-General  entenng  a  noli  prosequi.  At 
the  arguments  urged  by  Mr.  Adair,  who  was  of  counsel  for  the  printers,  on 
showing  cause  against  this  measure,  aie  extremely  curious,  and  not  generally 
known,  we  shall  subjoin  them  foi  the  information  of  the  reader,  and  for  the 
better  elucidation  of  this  and  other  letters  upon  the  subject  of  this  important 
dispote. 

if  r.  Adair,  in  pursuance  of  notice,  attended  the  Attomey-Gsnera.,  Mr.  1)4 


368  MISC^IXAKEOUS   LETTERS  ASCBI6ED  TO    JUNIUS. 

LETTER  XCVI. 
For  the  Pvhlic  Advertiser, 

April  15,  IITL 

HENEICUS  TO   THE   EABL   OF  SUFFOLK. 
Mt  JjOKD, 

The  singularity  of  your  late  couduct  seemed  to  claim  some 
attention  from  the  public,  which  you  do  not,  1  presume,  thiuk 

6hrey,  on  tbe  17tli  of  May,  1771,  and  after  the  indictment  and  an  affidavit 
of  the  defendant  had  been  read,  spoke  as  follows  :< — 

"  It  requires  no  arguments  to  show,  that  though  the  entering  a  noli 
prosequi  on  prosecutions  at  the  suit  of  the  King  only  is  an  undoubted  pre- 
rogative of  the  crown,  yet,  like  all  other  prerogatives,  it  is  intended  for  the 
general  good  of  the  subject,  and  not  for  the  hindrance  or  interruption  of 
public  justice. 

"  It  is  indeed  a  discretionary  power,  but  it  is  to  be  exercised,  not  ac- 
cording to  an  arbitrary,  but  a  sound  and  legal  discretion.  It  is  for  this  rea- 
son. Sir,  that  it  is  not  left  to  the  wanton  caprice  of  a  favourite,  or  the 
arbitrary  will  of  a  minister,  to  be  executed  at  pleasure,  but  it  is  deposited 
as  a  public  trust  in  the  hands  of  the  Attorney-General,  that  the  exercise 
(•f  it  may  be  directed  by  his  knowledge  of  the  laws  and  constitution  of  the 
kingdom. 

'*  Many  reasons  may.be  suggested  why  this  powei  should  be  most  sparingly 
exercised  in  cases  of  prosecution  by  indictment. 

"  Though  the  King's  name  is  necessarily  used  as  the  general  guardian 
of  the  laws,  there  is  another  party  conceined  in  indictments,  the  injured 
party,  who  is  for  the  most  part  the  real,  as  the  King  is  the  nominal  prose- 
cutor.       « 

"  The  practice,  too,  of  entering  a  noli  prosequi  on  indictments  is  but  of 
modem  date. 

"  In  the  case  of  Goddard  and  Smith  in  the  6th  Mod.  262,  Holt,  Chief 
Justice,  said,  '  He  had  known  it  thought  very  hard  that  the  Attorney-Ge- 
neral should  enter  noli  prosequi  upon  indictments,  and  that  began  first  to 
he  practised  in  the  latter  end  of  King  Charles  the  Second's  reign ;  and  he 
ordered  precedents  to  be  searched,  if  any  were,  in  Mr.  Attorney  Palmer, 
or  Nottingham's  time ; '  and  at  another  day  he  declared,  '  that  in  all  King 
Charles  the  First's  time  there  was  no  precedent  of  a  noli  prosequi  on  an 
indictment.' 

"  I  therefore  submit  to  you,  that  (sitting  here  to  determine  upon  the  ap- 
plication of  a  power  so  recent  in  its  commencement,  and  of  which  we  are  told 
by  so  respectable  an  authority,  that  it  has  been  looked  upon  as  a  hardship 
in  itself,)  you  will  require  the  most  cogent  reasons  to  induce  you  to  exert  it 
upon  this  or  any  other  occasion. 


TO  THE  EABL  OF  SUFFOLK. 


869 


jon  have  entirely  escaped;  but  since  by  tbeir  silence  tliey 
either  think  you  supeiior  to  shame  or  below  the  digi;itj  of 

**  Those  reasons  must  arise  either  from  the  conduct  of  the  prosecutor,  th<^ 
personal  situation  and  circumstance  of  the  defendant,  or  the  s\ibject-matter  of 
the  prosecution. 

"  I  do  not  find  from  the  affidavit  of  the  defendant,  which  is  the  only- 
information  I  have  had  of  the  grounds  of  hie  application  to  you,  that  be 
comphdns  of  any  particular  hardships  or  oppression,  arising  either  from  un- 
necessary delay,  unusual  rigour,  or  any  other  misconduct  in  the  prosecutor : 
he  must  therefore  expect  the  extraordinary  inteq)08ition  of  the  prerogative  in 
bis  behalf,  in  this  iiistince,  either  from  something  peculiarly  favourable  in  his 
personal  situation,  which  entitles  him  to  the  protection  of  the  crown,  or  from 
the  charge  against  him  being  toully  groundless  aiid  unfit  to  be  discussed  in  a 
court  of  justice. 

*'  As  to  the  first  of  these  points,  if  we  consider  Mr.  Whittam  not  being  a 
magistrate's  constable,  or  any  other  officer  intnuted  with  the  execution  of 
the  laws,  but  acting  merely  in  a  private  capacity,  as  wantonly  assiiulti.ng 
one  of  the  King's  subjects,  in  his  own  house,  who  was  not  even  accused  uf 
any  crime,  and  violently  attempting  to  deprive  him  of  his  liberty ;  if,  I  say, 
we  consider  him  in  this  point  of  view,  he  can  hardly  be  thought  a  fit  object 
of  the  royal  favour  and  protection ;  but  if  we  view  him  in  the  light  in  which 
he  has  thought  proper  to  place  himself  by  his  own  affidavit,  he  will  be  found, 
if  possible,  still  less  entitled  to  that  exertion  of  prerogative  for  which  he  has 
appli/d.  He  tells  you,  Sir,  that  he  is  a  messenger  of  the  House  of  Comqions; 
that  in  that  character,  and  acting  under  the  express  orders  and  authority  of 
that  House,  he  did  the  fact  with  which  he  is  charged  in  the  indictment. 
Does  he  mean.  Sir,  that  you  should  consider  this  as  a  reason  for  granting  a 
fioli  prosequit  When  was  it  heard  before  that  an  exertion  of  prerogative  was 
necessary  to  support  the  authority  and  privileges  of  the  House  of  Commons i^ 
When  was  that  House  known  to  sue  to  the  servants  of  the  crown  to  screen 
their  officers  from  the  laws,  or  protect  them  from  the  indignation  of  an  incon- 
Bidei-able  printer  ? 

"  I  believe  when  any  of  their  privileges  have  been  really  invaded,  they 
have  never  been  found  wanting  either  in  power  or  inclination  to  support 
them ;  and  I  am  satisfied  that  if  the  House  were  now  sitting,  Mr.  Whittam 
would  not  hare  dared  to  make  an  application  so  manifestly  tending  to  expose 
their  privileges  and  authority  to  ridicule  and  contempt.  But,  Sir,  I  am  per- 
smided  that  the  honour  and  dignity  of  the  House  of  Commons  are  safe  in 
your  hands,  and  that  yon  will  suffer  no  act  to  proceed  from  you  that  can 
throw  even  an  oblique  imputation  upon  them. 

**  If  there  is  for  these  reasons  nothing  in  Mr.  Whittam's  personal  situation 
or  circumstances  which  can  entitle  him  to  an  extraordinary  interposition  in 
nis  farour,  ic  remains  only  to  be  considered  whether  any  motive  c;m  be  sug- 
gc!St«d  from  the  subject-matter  of  the  prosecution  to  induce  you  to  put  a  stop 
to  it  by  an  exertion  of  the  royal  prerofl;ative. 

"  The  charge  set  forth  in  the  indictment,  and  not  denied  by  the  defend- 
ant's affidavit,  is  for  assaulting  and  imprisoning  the  prosecutor,  Mr.  Miller. 
It  will  not  be  contended  that  there  appears  anythnig  upon  the  face  of  tlic 

rois  a,  '  B  » 


870  VISCELTJIXEOUS   J.EITERS   ASCRIBED   TO  JUKn7g. 

revenge.  T  cannot  help  giving  to  thera  what  I  owe  on  this 
occasion,  which,  had  X  only  considered  the  gratification  of  & 

indictment  opprefisive,  illegal,  vufit  to  come  before  a  court  of  justice,  or  wbich 
aifords  any  motive  whatsoever  for  granting  the  noli  prosequi;  the  reason, 
then.fore,  if  any,  must  arise  from  the  matters  set  forth  by  th<»  defendant's 
affidavit.  The  affidavit  states,  that  the  defendant  is  one  of  the  messengers 
of  the  House  of  Commcrj;  that  the  Speakers  warrant  for  i^prehending 
the  prosecutor  was  issued  by  order  of  the  House,  and  that,  in  consequence 
thereof,  the  defendant,  to  whom  the  warrant  was  delivered,  did  make  the 
arrest  with  which  he  is  charged  in  the  indictment,  and  that  he  used  no 
violence  in  so  doing,  other  than  seizing  Mr.  Miller  by  the  arm,  as  is  usual  in 
arrests. 

"  I  apprehend  it  is  not  incumbent  upon  me  here  to  consider,  as  I  sub* 
mit  it  is  not  competent  for  you,  Sir,  to  determine  in  this  summary  manner, 
whether  the  matters  here  set  forth  do  or  do  not  amount  to  a  good  defence, 
or  legal  justification.  We  are  not  now  to  try  the  cause ;  but  you.  Sir,  I  am 
confident,  will  not  interpose  the  prerogative  of  the  King  to  prevent  our  trying 
it  in  the  regular  course  before  the  proper  jurisdiction,  unless  the  prosecution, 
as  it  now  appears  before  you,  is  so  clearly  and  manifestly  groundless,  and 
unfit  for  discussion  in  a  court  of  law,  that  it  would  be  an  abuse  and  mockery 
of  public  justice  to  bring  it  to  a  trial.  If  the  authority  under  which  Mr. 
Whittam  alleges  himself  to  have  acted  was  not  competent  to  authorize  the 
fact  which  he  committed,  or  if  that  authority  never  was  in  feet  delegated  to 
him,  in  either  of  those  cases  the  prosecution  is  well  founded  in  law.  If  any 
doubt  or  question  can  be  raised  on  eitlier  of  these  points,  it  is  not  so  clearly 
groundless  as  to  justify  the  putting  a  stop  to  it  by  prerogative  before  those 
questions  are  legally  determined. 

"  It  might  well  be  questioned,  whether  the  House  of  Commons  has  any 
power,  by  the  kws  or  constitution  of  this  kingdom,  to  authorize  the  issuing 
of  such  a  warrant  as  that  under  colour  of  which  Mr.  Miller  was  appre- 
hended. 

"  It  might  be  said',  and  supported  too  by  the  greatest  authorities,  that 
they  cannot,  by  any  act  of  theirs  singly,  create  any  new  power  or  privilege 
to  themselves ;  that  there  was  a  time  when  they  evidently  neither  possessed 
nor  claimed  any  such  power  as  that  in  question ;  and  when  the  authority  of 
an  Act  of  Parliament  was  thought  necessary  to  punish  even  so  undeniable 
a  breach  of  privilege  as  the  assaulting  the  person  of  a  member  attending 
upon  his  duty  in  parliament  The  statute.  Sir,  which  I  here  allude  to, 
is  the  11th  of  H.  YL  c  11,  which  was  made  to  extend  the  provisions  of 
5th  H.  IV.  c  6,  for  punishment  of  assaults  on  the  servants  of  members  of 
parliament  when  attending  on  their  masters  in  their  duty,  to  the  persons  of 
the  members  themselves.  It  might  be  urged,  that  the  power  in  question 
has  never  been  given  them  by  any  Act  of  Parliament,  and  that  if  there  ever 
was  a  time  when  they  did  not  possess  it,  they  can  by  no  other  means  have 
legallj  acquired  it.  All  this  and  much  more  might  be  said,  if  it  were  neoet> 
saiy  to  dispute  the  authority  of  the  House  of  Commons  to  issue  the  warrant 
for  the  commitment  of  Mr.  Miller;  but  it  is  sufficient  for  me  at  present  to 
eoQteudy  that  whether  they  had  or  had  not  the  power,  they  aoTer  did  n 


TO   THE   EARL  OF   SUFFOLK.  371 

passion,  T  should  have  sooner  done.     I  own  I  new  do  it  with 
some  distrust  of  my  own  abilities,  in  doing  justice  to  the  un- 

bet  give  the  defendjint  any  authority  whatsoever  to  make  the  arrent  in  ques- 
tion. 

**  The  warrant,  Sir,  under  colour  of  which  Mr.  "Whittam  acted,  is  a  warrant 
purporting  to  be  issued  in  pursuance  of  an  order  of  the  House  of  Commons, 
■nd  signcMl  Fletcher  Norton,  Speaker.  But,  Sir,  the  order  of  the  House,  as  it 
18  recited  in  the  warrant  itself,  is  for  taking  Mr.  Miller  into  the  custody  of 
the  serjeant-at-arms  or  his  deputy ;  and  Mr.  Whittam  is  described  in  the  di- 
rection of  the  very  same  warrant  to  be  neither  the  one  nor  the  other  of  thfse. 
No  authority  whatsoever  can  be  conveyed  to  Mr.  "Whittam,  by  virtue  of  an 
order  in  which  he  is  not  named,  and  which  particularly  points  out  certain 
persons,  in  contradiction  from  all  others.  This  warrant,  therefore  (so  far  as 
it  relates  to  Mr.  Whittam),  appears  to  be  issued  by  the  Speaker,  merely  of 
his  own  authority,  unauthorized  by  any  order  of  the  House  of  Commons. 
Has  the  Speaker  any  power  to  commit,  unless  he  derives  it  from  the  orders 
of  the  House  1  If  he  has  not,  which  must  be  granted,  he  is  bound  strictly 
and  literally  to  pursue  that  order  which  creates  his  authority :  as  &r  as  he 
exceeds  it,  he  acts  without  authority  himself,  and  most  clearly  can  convey 
none  to  any  other  person.  Mr.  Whittam  therefore,  in  this  case,  acting  with- 
out any  legal  authority  whatever  in  the  arrest  of  the  prosecutor,  a  prosecu- 
tion grounded  upon  that  cannot  be  considered  as  totally  void  of  foundation. 
But  supposingfor  a  moment  that  the  prosecution  was  frivolous  and  ill-grounded, 
I  submit  that  that  alone  would  not  be  a  reason  for  the  exti-aordinary  interpo- 
sition of  the  crown.  If  it  would  in  this  case,  it  must  in  every  other ;  every 
defendant  who  fancied  himself  unjustly  prosecuted  would  apply  for  protection 
to  the  crown,  and  almost  every  indictment  must  first  be  tried  by  the  attorney- 
general  before  it  could  come  regularly  into  a  court  of  justice.  I  presume  you 
will  conceive  it  was  not  for  these  purposes  that  this  prerogative  was  vested 
in  your  hands,  and  that  there  must  appear  some  strong  reasons  peculiar  to 
the  case  to  show  why  it  is  improper  and  unfit  for  public  discussion,  besides 
merely  that  of  the  prosecution  being  ill-grounded  to  induce  yon  to  make  this 
extraordinary  interposition.  I  submit  to  you.  Sir,  with  great  deference,  that 
there  appears  no  such  reasons  in  this  case.  Every  motive  of  policy  and 
prudence  seems  to  weigh  on  the  other  side.  The  question  to  be  tried  is  the 
most  important  that  can  well  be  conceived.  The  privileges  of  the  House  of 
Commons  on  the  one  side,  and  the  liberties  of  the  people  of  England  on  the 
other,  are  said  to  be  materially  affected.  Perhaps,  indeed,  it  might  have 
been  wished  that  this  great  question  had  never  been  started,  or  brought  to 
the  public  view,  by  issuing  the  warrant  in  question.  But  when  it  has  been 
already  so  much  agitated,  and  has  engrossed  the  attention  of  the  public,  it 
seems  necessary,  for  the  satisfaction  and  quiet  of  the  kingdom,  that  it  should 
proceed  to  a  solemn  and  legal  determination  in  a  court  of  justice.  If,  there- 
fore. Sir,  the  House  of  Commons  had  no  authority  by  law  to  authorize  Mr. 
Whittam  to  make  the  arrest  upon  the  prosecutor,  or  if,  m  fact,  no  authority 
was  delegated  to  him,  in  either  of  these  cases  he  has  illegally  assaulted  an 
innocent  man,  and  deprived  him  of  his  liberty;  and  the  entering  a  noli 
fro$e^%  would  be  an  obstruction  of  public  justice.    If,  on  the  other  Itandf 

S  B  d 


37Q  MISCELLANEOUS  LETTERS  ASCRIBED  TO  JUNIUS. 

dertaking.  Your  Lordship  must  be  aware  that  it  is  geneiYdl) 
a  matter  of  some  degree  of  delicacy  to  undertake  the  discussion 

the  House  of  Commons  had  a  legal  aathority,  and  regularly  delegated  the 
execotion  of  it  to  Mr.  Whittam^  the  public  should  be  convince*!  of  it  by  a 
dittcussion  and  determination  in  a  court  of  law ;  and  the  granting  tiie  lU'li 
prosequi  in  that  case  would  tend  to  mislead  many  people  into  an  op)ni«)u 
that  it  was  done  to  screen  an  offender  from  the  laws,  who  had  no  legal  justi* 
iiciition  in  a  court  of  justice:  I  therefore  submit  to  you,  Sir.  for  theite  reaai>C8, 
that  you,  as  Attorcey-General,  will  not  think  proper  in  this  case  to  grant  a 
noii  pruseqtd." 

Mr.  Aitomey-General. — "  Do  you  produce  any  evidence  T 

Mr.  Adair. — "  We  offer  no  other  evidence  than  what  appears  in  the  affi* 
daWt  of  the  defendant  himself,  and  the  warrant  to  which  it  refers." 

Mr.  Attorney- General. — **  You  are  extremely  right  in  this,  that  it  is  not  at 
iill  a  fit  thing  tor  the  Attorney-General  to  try  either  the  tiact  upon  which  the 
defendant  is  indicted,  or  to  determine  the  law.  The  only  question  is  this, 
whether  it  is  fit  for  the  King  to  interpose  as  the  prosecutor  of  this  offence  I 
That,  I  take  it,  should  be  the  ground  of  your  argument,  and  the  point  upon 
which  I  expected  satisfaction.  The  affidavit  itself  states  the  messenger  of  the 
House  of  Commons  to  be  acting  under  the  authority  of  the  House  of  Commons ; 
and  if  this  was  the  only  way  in  which  that  question  could  be  brought  before 
a  court  of  law,  I  should  be  obliged  to  give  an  opinion  whether  it  ought  or 
whether  it  ought  not. 

"  The  only  point  I  have  to  consider  is.  whether  it  be  fit  for  the  name  of 
the  crown  to  appear  in  prosecuting  one  who  appears  to  be  the  messengi-r  of 
the  House  of  Commons,  and  to  be  armed  by  the  authority  of  that  House  for 
doing  the  veiy  thing  he  has  done  under  the  orders  of  the  House  1  I  don't 
mean  to  pass  over  the  objection  which  has  been  made,  that  the  Speaker  of 
the  House,  by  orders  of  the  House,  directing  the  warrant  to  a  person  not 
named  in  such  order,  whether  that  order  extends  only  to  arresting  the  prose- 
cutor, iuid  taking  him  into  the  custody  of  the  serjeant-at-arms,  or  his  deputy : 
I  dare  say  I  t  .ke  Mr.  Adair's  objection  perfectly  right ;  the  order  of  the 
House  is  for  taking  him  into  the  custody  of  the  serjeant-at-arms,  or  his  de- 
puty ;  and  the  objection  is,  that  the  person  in  whose  custody  the  prosecutor 
was  originally  taken  is  neither  the  serjeant-at-arms  or  his  deputy.  And 
the  doubt  you  raise  upon  it  is,  whether  the  Speaker  of  the  House  of  Com- 
mons can  authorize  anotiier  person  to  arrest  and  bring  him  into  the  custody 
of  the  serjeant-at-arms  or  his  deputy  ;  fur  the  serjeant-at-arms,  or  his  deputy, 
is  the  proper  and  the  only  custody  I  know  of  belonging  to  the  House;  and 
the  gentleman's  argument  is,  that  in  point  of  the  arrest  it  cannot  be  made 
without  the  serjeant,  or  deputy-serjeant.  with  respect  to  the  orders  of  the 
House  of  Commons,  and  the  direction  of  the  waiTant  by  the  Speaker,  which 
is  a  question  of  law  to  be  sure.  It  has  been  constant  in  point  of  practice  fur 
the  messengers  to  be  employed  (in  the  orders  of  the  House,  and  tor  oihei 
than  mes-engers  to  be  employed)  upon  the  very  same  occuion.  There  if 
nothing  so  constant  as  the  messengers  all  to  be  employed;  there  are  some 
few  instances  where  more  than  the  messengers  have  been  empl(\ved  ufton 
t]ieie  occasions.     Th/?  difficulty  upon  it  was,  whetiiur  they  s  luuld  or  not  b« 


TO   THE   EARL   OF   SUFFOLK,  373 

of  any  pait  or  system  of  politics,  as  it  is  of  some  difficulty  ti> 
avoid  the  share  of  ioipututious  which  are  indiscriminately 

inserted  in  the  warrant ;  or  whether,  if  they  wee  not  inserted  in  the  warrant, 
it  could  be  construed  under  the  general  description  of  the  serjeant-at-arms  or 
his  deputy ;  or  whether  that  authority  could  go  to  warrant  those  which  might 
be  appointed  by  the  serjeant-at-arms  or  his  deputy  upon  that  occasion.  It 
was  thought  more  proper  to  make  a  warrant  directed  to  the  person  to  be  em- 
ployed, though  it  was  mentioned  in  the  orders  of  the  House  that  the  custody 
was  to  be  that  of  the  serjeant-at-arms,  or  hu  deputy,  according  to  the  usual 
form  of  their  orders. 

"  But  the  only  point  for  me  to  consider  is,  how  far  it  ia  fit  the  King  should 
be  the  prosecutor  of  a  servant  of  the  House  of  Commons,  in  the  execution  of 
a  privilege  v/hich  they  now  claim,  which  they  have  claimed  for  ages,  and  have 
been  in  the  possession  offer  ages;  and  that  the  King  should  be  brought  into 
a  proceeding  against  the  servant  of  the  House  as  a  prosecutor.  The  noli 
prosequi  is  called  a  prerogative  right  of  the  crown ;  it  amounts  to  no  more 
than  this,  that  the  King  makes  his  election  whether  he  will  continue  or  not 
to  be  the  prosecutor  upon  an  indictment,  and  the  noli  prosequi  is  entered  in 
the  same  words  in  case  of  the  crown  as  of  a  private  person,  ihe  entry  upon 
the  record  is  exactly  the  same  by  the  Attorney-General  as  by  a  private  phiin- 
tiff  upon  record  in  any  civil  suit. 

"  I  did  expect  that  you  would  have  given  me  some  reason  for  entertaining 
an  opinion  that  it  was  decent  and  fit  for  the  crown  to  continue  and  stand 
forth  as  a  prosecutor  of  the  messenger  of  the  House  of  Commons,  acting 
under  their  direction,  in  maintenance  of  a  privilege  they  have  chiimed  and 
held  80  long.  That  is  the  only  point  I  put  it  upon.  The  affidavit,  as  made 
by  the  defendant,  makes  it  necessary  to  consider  him  as  an  officer  of  the 
House. 

"  I  did  not  indeed  expect  any  disputes  upon  it,  or  that  it  would  be  put 
upon  so  small  a  ground ;  the  reason  I  expected  was,  that  it  was  becoming  an 
officer  of  the  crown,,  in  the  name  of  the  crown,  to  continue  a  prosecution  by 
the  crown,  against  the  messenger  of  the  House  of  Commons,  acting  under 
^e  authority  of  the  House  of  Commons." 

Mr,  Adair,  expressing  a  doubt  whether  it  would  be  proper  for  him  to 
make  any  reply  to  this,  the  Attorney-General  said  he  should  be  glad  to  hear 
him. 

Mr,  Adair, — ''  With  regard  to  what  you  have  suggested,  it  is  true  the 
entry  upon  record  is  the  same  in  the  case  of  the  crown  as  of  a  private  person ; 
yet  in  a  prosecmtion  by  indictment  the  crown  is  not  solely  concerned.  To 
make  the  case  exactly  similar,  it  should  be  an  information  ex  officio,  ot  any 
other  really  and  truly  a  crown  prosecution ;  and  then  the  entering  noli  pro- 
sequi  upon  that  would  be  the  same  as  upon  private  actions.  But  in  the  case 
cf  indictments,  the  King  being  in  fact  a  nominal  prosecutor,  though  his  name 
is  necessary,  yet  the  injured  party  being  the  true  prosecutor  (who  applies  to 
the  laws  of  his  country  for  justice  against  the  offender,  who  has  violated  those 
laws  and  particularly  injured  him),  if  in  that  case  the  King  puts  a  stop  to  the 
prosecution  by  withdrawing  his  name  from  it,  it  is  tne  same  in  effect,  thongh 
uut  ill  form,  as  if  he  sent  his  mandate  and  said  that  prosecution  should  nut  go 


874  VTSCELLANEOUS  LETFEBS  ASCAIBBD  TO  JUNIUS. 

thrown  on  all  who  submit  their  anonymous  opinions  to  th« 
public.  Though  these  reproaches  may  fall  on  those  whose 
names  would  give  some  credit  to  their  assertions,  yet  while 
they  adopt  the  common  method  of  hirelings,  their  writings 
must  expect  the  same  treatment.  With  whatever  circumstances 

on ;  because  if  he  withdraws  his  name  from  it,  that  prosecution  cannot,  by  the 
laws,  go  any  further — the  prosecutor  himself  cannot  proceed  in  his  own  name; 
the  withdrawing  that  name  has  the  same  effect  as  the  actual  intei^position  of 
prerogative  by  the  Attorney- General,  and  operates  the  same  as  a  pardon. 
Mr.  Whittam  being  alleged  to  have  acted  under  the  authority  of  the  House 
of  Commons,  to  have  had  a  warrant  directed  to  him,  the  question  is  not 
whether  the  warrant  is  legal  or  not,  but  whether  it  is  proper  for  the  crown 
to  put  a  stop  to  that  prosecution,  and  whether,  the  privileges  of  the  House  of 
Commons  being  said  to  be  concerned,  any  interposition  of  the  crown  be 
necessary  to  support  their  authority.  If  Whittam  has  acted  in  pursuance  of 
the  order  of  the  House,  if  those  orders  are  such  as  the  House  has  a  compe- 
tent authority  to  make,  I  submit  that  it  cannot  be  a  doubt  that  that  matter, 
pleaded  or  brought  in  a  r^^lar  manner  before  a  court  of  justice,  would  be 
a  sufficient  defence.  If  the  courts  of  law  are  of  opinion  that  the  House  has 
that  authority,  and  that  it  was  regularly  delegated  to  Whittam,  they  would 
necessarily  be  of  opinion  to  acquit  him ;  and  upon  that  ground  there  appears 
to  be  no  necessity  for  the  crown  withdrawing  itself  from  a  prosecution  which 
by  no  possible  means  can  prove  oppressive  or  injurious  to  the  defendant.  If 
he  has  acted  under  a  legal  authority,  he  must  be  legally  acquitted  in  a  court 
of  justice.  But  if  the  authority  is  not  sufficient,  or  not  regularly  conveyed, 
it  is  proper,  for  the  sake  of  justice  and  the  liberty  of  the  subject,  that  judg- 
ment should  be  pronounced  upon  it  in  a  court  of  law.  I  believe  the  prose- 
cutor does  not  contend  that  the  defendant  has  been  goilty  of  that  kind  of 
oifence  for  which  he  means  to  prosecute  him  with  any  rigour ;  he  don't 
mean  to  oppress  him,  or  proceed  for  the  sake  of  pimishment  only.  Whether 
it  is  five  pounds  or  five  thousand  is  indifferent  to  him ;  the  only  thing  he 
wishes,  is  to  have  the  question  decided  by  a  legal  competent  jurisdiction.  If 
it  comes  regularly  before  the  co^nrt,  though  perhaps  upon  this  indictment  it 
could  not,  but  if  it  does,  the  question  is,  whether  the  Speaker  of  the  House 
of  Commons  had  a  sufficient  legal  authority  to  authorize  that  arrest,  or 
whether  the  defendant  has  actually  acted  under  that  authority,  such  as  it  was. 
And  I  submit  to  yoiur  consideration  whether,  upon  that  point,  such  interposi- 
tion appears  to  be  necessary  in  this  case,  either  upon  beludf  of  the  defendant, 
or  of  the  privilege  of  the  House  of  Commons." 

Mr.  Attomey-Oeneral. — *'  I  don't  put  it  upon  the  tenderness  to  Mr.  Whit- 
tam, or  the  point  of  privilege  of  the  House  of  Commons,  but  merely  upon  the 
foot  of  decency,  as  the  circumstance  of  the  crown  taking  a  part  in  the  prose- 
cution (which  they  must  do  if  they  go  on  with  it)  against  the  messenger  of 
the  House  of  Commons,  acting  under  the  atithority  of  the  vrarnmt  of  the 
Speaker,  pursuant  to  an  order  of  the  House.** 

Mr.  De  Grey,  the  Attorney-Gen  ral,  was  afterwards  Chief  Justice  of  thi 
Common  Pleas  aad  Mr.  Adair  subsequently  Recorder  of  London. 


TO  THB  RABL  OF  SUFFOLK.  375 

an}  object  of  my  notice  might  be  attended,  I  should  expect  criti- 
eism,  and  I  hope  I  could  bear  it  with  temper.  I  cannot,  however, 
help  considering  it  as  a  lucky  circumstance,  that  the  first  pro- 
duction I  ever  ventured  to  give  to  the  public  excludes  the 
possibility  of  any  imputation,  as  the  actions  I  shall  condemn 
admit  not  the  possibility  of  defence.  Before  I  arraign  your 
subsequent  conduct,  which  I  mean  to  do  pretty  freely,  I  must 
admire  the  simple  candour  with  which  you  have  declared  your- 
self without  principle.  In  the  most  destructive  administra- 
tions, composed  of  men  perhaps  more  profligate  than  your 
Lordship,  care  has  generally  been  taken  to  save,  in  some 
measure,  appearances  with  the  public ;  and  although  the  de- 
struction of  this  constitution  has  been  pretty  clearly  their 
object,  they  have  never  ventured  openly  to  avow  it :  even  the 
Duke  of  Grafton  did  not  condemn  his  own  principles,  though 
he  avowed  and  gloried  in  such  measures  as  no  man  with  prin- 
ciple could  undertake.  Your  Lordship  is  the  first  man  who 
ever  saved  others  the  trouble  of  accusation.  Your  protests 
must  remain  to  all  posterity  a  monument  of  your  infamy ;  and 
one  would  almost  imagine  you  designed  they  should.  You  are 
young,  my  Lord :  you  thought  it  was  necessary  for  a  man  of 
fashion  to  engage  in  public  business;  and  as  some  of  your 
piivate  connections  happened  to  be  in  opposition,  you  went 
with  the  stream  and  opposed.  Apparently  attached  to  that 
party,  you  perhaps  thought  it  a  civility  to  adopt  and  pursue 
their  measures,  whatever  they  were,  of  opposition ;  and  your 
vanity  was  afterwards  tickled  with  an  offer  from  administration 
which  your  civility  would  not  permit  you  to  refuse.  You  did 
not  reflect,  or  perhaps  you  did  not  know,  that  you  was  catching 
at  an  object  which  was  not  attended  even  with  the  usual  ap- 
pearance of  honour ;  and  you  did  not  then  consider  (for  I  am 
sure  you  must  now  recollect),  that  you  was  attaching  yourself 
to  men  from  whose  connection  that  protest,  which  will  now  be 
transmitted  down  with  ridicule  to  your  posterity,  ought  to  have 
excluded  you  for  over; — or  perhaps,  to  speak  more  fairly  or 
more  fashionably,  you  thought  the  force  of  such  declarations 
was  no  longer  of  consequence  when  the  purpose  was  answei'od 
f(ir  which  they  wiere  made.  These  reasons  are  so  much  below 
a  schoolboy,  that  I  am  sure  your  Lordship  would  not  be  willing 
10  allege  them ;  and  if  you  have  in  the  world  a  friend,  be  will 
net  wish  you  should :  but  unhappily  friendship  is  not  one  ol 


o76  MISCELLANEOUS  LETTERS    ASCRIBED   TO   JUXTHB. 

tliose  ruling  objects  which  you  have  been  solicitous  to  pre&errei 
however  fortunate  you  may  formerly  have  been  in  obtaining  it 
The  man  who,  without  honour  to  support  any  administration 
fix)m  principle,  has  still  craft  enough  to  betray  all,  may  perhaps 
be  solicited  by  every  succeeding  minister,  or  perhaps  their  cre- 
dulity may  be  deceived  into  his  friendship ;  but  the  poor  un- 
taught villain,  who  can  neither  support  with  consistency,  nor 
betray  with  decency,  will  be  despised  by  those  whom  he  deserted, 
and  ridiculed  by  the  very  men  to  whom  he  has  made  so  capital 
a  surrender.  Your  Lordship,  I  believe,  sees  with  some  un- 
easiness the  truth  of  the  observation  and  I  wil'  give  your 
conscience  credit  for  the  feelings  it  must  produce.  I  would 
therefore  consider  you,  what  you  seem  willing  to  be  considered, 
an  object  of  pity  rather  than  of  reproach.  The  situation  in 
which  you  appeared  before  a  whole  House  of  Peers,  and  tbe 
trial  you  then  underwent,  might  be  an  object  of  triumph  to  some 
men ;  but  I  hope  all  hearts  were  not  shut  to  the  feelings  of 
compassion.  I  am  willing  only  to  extend  reproach  to  those 
who  seem  proud  of  receiving  it.  The  criminal  who  is  executed 
at  the  gallows  ought  not  to  excite  the  anger,  much  less  the 
exultations,  of  the  public  whom  he  has  defrauded;  but  tbe 
villain  who  has  seduced  him  to  the  commission  of  the  crime 
for  which  he  suffers,  and  who  glories  in  his  impudence,  has  a 
claim  to  all  we  can  give  him — our  detestation  and  our  curses 
The  comparison  I  think  you  understand,  and  I  believe  you 
hnve  sensibility  enough  to  feel  it ;  indeed  you  testified  it  suflB- 
ciently  to  tliose  who  could  observe  you  wished  to  justify,  or  at 
least  to  excuse,  so  extraordinary  a  change  of  principles  and  con- 
duct:  your  courage  forsook  you,  and  you  did  not  dare  to  rise. 
The  Duke  of  Grafton,  when  he  deserted  those  principles  and 
those  connections  to  which  every  sentiment  of  honour  oufjfht  to 
have  allied  and  bound  him,  seemed  happily  to  have  lost  all  that 
vmuvaise  honte  with  which  young  adventurers  like  his  Grace 
were  usually  attended,  and  he  creditably  told  us  that  he  gloried 
III  his  situation.  Your  Lordship  s  prostitution  was  not  attended 
with  thope  peculiar  circumstances  which  attended  his.  You 
felt  the  sacrifice  you  had  made ;  your  conscience  forced  your 
silence,  and  every  man  was  confounded :  administration  looked 
for  a  notable  advocate,  but  were  deceived  with  a  reproach  which 
cut  them  to  the  quick.  For  your  own  sake,  my  Lord,  let  me 
advise  you  to  consider  your  own  plan,  and  let  me  appeal  U 


TO   THE   EARL   OP  SUFFOLK.  877 

jrour  understanding  for  its  acquittal.  Your  situation  by  Kirtli 
IS  such  as  put  it  in  your  own  power  to  have  acquitted  yoiii-self 
in  life  respectably,  and  your  connection  with  such  men  as  Lord 
Rockingham,  Sir  George  Saville,  the  Duke  of  Portland,  and 
the  Duke  of  Richmond,  were  no  disgrace  to  you.  Was  your 
fortune  encumbered  with  debt,  or  sold  through  extravagance? 
Had  you  a  numerous  family  to  provide  for,  whose  support  you 
could  not  command  from  your  own  establishment  ?  Had  ad- 
ministration  reveraed  its  order  of  governing,  and  given  you  any 
security  for  the  preservation  of  our  rights,  and  redress  of  our 
grievances  ?  If  any  piivate  assurance  of  this  sort  has  been 
giv«n  you,  I  shall  think  your  conduct  has  been  consistent, 
though  it  will  still  be  disgraceful  with  respect  to  your  friends 
in  opposition.  You  will  not  answer  any  of  these  questions  in 
the  affirmative  ;  nor  is  it  necessary  you  should  answer  them  at 
all.  The  two  first  propositions  I  know  to  be  false.  The  third, 
if  it  had  existed,  would  before  this  time  have  been  declared. 
Thus  we  see  a  hopeful  young  peer,  possessed  of  an  independent 
fortune,  with  an  only  child,  a  daughter,  connected  with  the 
most  honourable  characters  in  this  kingdom,  prostituting  his 
honour,  and  every  valuable  consideration  of  the  public  for  that 
of  an  office,  independent  even  of  those  sweet  allurements  which 
could,  one  would  imagine,  make  the  bitter  pill  go  down.  For 
shame,  my  Lord,  to  throw  yourself  away  under  such  circum- 
stances, at  the  discretion  of  siLch  an  administration !  Had  you, 
like  poor  Whateley,  been  reduced  from  a  state  of  independence 
to  the  humiliating  necessity  of  soliciting  your  support  from 
administration,  our  reproach  would  be  only  turned  against 
those  who  creditably  took  advantage  of  such  a  situation,  and 
gratified  themselves  with  the  purchase  of  an  honest  man  s  re- 
putation ;  and  though  we  congratulated  them  on  the  acquisition 
which  they  had  prudently  secured,  we  should  sincerely  pity  the 
object  of  their  triumph.  I  am  neither  surprised  nor  shocked 
at  any  inconsistency  in  Mr.  Wedderbume :  his  profession  sets 
his  principles  at  auction,  and  it  is  reasonable  that  the  highest 
bidder  should  command  them :  but  that  the  Earl  of  Suffolk 
should  act  such  a  part,  I  own  astonished  me — a  man  who  had 
everything  to  lose,  and  nothing  to  gain  by  prostitution :  that 
an  independent  peer  of  England  should  voluntarily  pledge 
himself  to  his  country  for  the  exertion  of  every  right 
and  every  power  with  which   the  corstitutiou  had  vested 


378  MISCELLANEOUS   LKfl'CRS  ASCBIBEO   TO  JUNIUS. 

him  for  their  service,  and  should  after  this  betray  every  inter- 
est of  the  public,  and  desert  that  service — that  be  should  in 
one  session  repeatedly  declare  to  this  purport,  if  not  to  this 
tenour,  that  he  would  never  hereafter  be  induced,  for  any  consi- 
deration, to  herd  with  men  whom  he  considered  as  enemies  to 
their  king  and  country,  and  in  the  next  deliver  over  his  con- 
science, his  right  and  his  powers  into  their  hands  at  their  dis- 
cretion, and  thereby  include  himself  in  every  odious  term  of 
reproach  which  he  had  so  liberally  bestowed  on  them.  There 
seems  something  at  least  extraordinary  in  such  conduct ;  and 
we  are  induced,  with  some  curiosity,  to  inquire,  for  God's  sake. 
Sir,  from  what  consideration  could  Lord  Suffolk  be  induced  to 
take  so  strong  a  part  with  opposition,  if  he  intended  the  next 
session  to  betray  it  ?  Or  if  he  was  then  sincere  in  his  attach- 
ments and  his  professions,  what  views  could  he  have  in  desert- 
ing them  ?  These  are  reasonable,  and  I  think  natural  ques- 
tions. We  cannot  but  commiserate  the  mortifying  state  o^ 
human  nature,  when  we  are  answered  the  truth,  and  informea 
of  the  circumstances  attending  it.  Had  you,  my  Lord,  been 
entrapped,  like  poor  Yorke,  by  the  prevailing  force  which  was 
contained  in  the  personal  entreaties  and  solicitations  of  Ma- 
jesty, and  had  your  honour  been  seduced  and  struck  into  com- 
pliance, though  we  should  abhor  the  act,  we  should  acquit  at 
least  you  of  the  guilt,  and  you  would  have  had  a  just  claim  to 
our  pity  unmixed  with  our  contempt.  But,  my  Lord,  what  are 
we  to  say,  when  we  see  a  man  in  your  Lordship's  situation 
stooping  to  so  humiliating  a  consideration  as  to  entreat  a  con- 
nection in  office  with  those  very  men  whom  you  had  before 
reviled  and  despised  ?  That  you  should,  after  being  answered, 
with  an  air  of  superiority,  that  you  was  at  least  the  third  to  be 
considered — that  you  should  wait  with  patience  and  resigna- 
tion, and  see  three  men  successively  refuse  such  a  connection, 
and  then  accept  it  under  such  circumstances  !  The  conclusion 
which  we  are  to  draw,  I  leave  to  your  Lordship's  feelings  to 
determine.  You  have  bad  time  to  reflect  on  your  situation, 
and  I  would  not  wish  to  add  more  to  embitter  the  sweets  of 
office.  Had  this  address  appeared  sooner,  while  you  was  for^ 
fund  dtUd  ehrius,  you  would  perhaps  have  laughed  with  Lord 
Sandwich  at  the  undertaking  of  one  who  endeavoured  to  prove 
that  honesty  and  virtue  had  any  real  existence.  You  would, 
like  the  Duke  of  Giiifton,  have  perused  it  at  your  teatableii 


SECOND  LETTER  OF  HENRICUS.  379 

and  perhaps  taken  a  pride,  like  Lord  Hillsborougb,  tbat  you 
was  dignified  with  an  enemy,  though  you  had  not,  like  him, 
preserved  a  friend.  But  I  think,  my  Lord,  a  sufficient  time  is 
elapsed,  during  which  some  mtervals  of  private  reflection  and 
remorse  must  have  interfered,  and  the  flattery  of  those  whc 
purchased  must  have  subsided,  and  left  your  conscience  and 
Mr.  Grenville  to  reproach  you.  For  I  still  believe  you  to  con- 
sist of  that  composition  which,  without  virtue  enough  to  avoid 
prostitution,  has  still  feeling  enough  to  be  ashamed  of  it. 
Torkshire,  Maich  7, 1771.  HENBICUS. 

[This  letter  has  been  misplaced,  or  would  have  appeared 
Booner,] 


LETTER  XCVII. 

HENBICUS  TO  THE   EARL   OF  SUFFOLK. 

Mt  Lord,  May  21, 1771. 

In  my  last  address  to  your  Lordship,  T  spoke  to  your  feelings. 
I  thought  your  conduct  was  such  as  could  afford  no  very  pleas- 
ing reflection,  and  I  readiiy  believed  that  you  was  willing  to 
consider  the  t.endemess  which  had  been  preserved  on  the  occa- 
sion  with  that  silent  gratitude  which  refined  and  delieata 
feelings  must  naturally  suggest.  It  was  acknowledged  that 
Lord  Suflblk  acted  without  virtue,  or  without  reflection ;  and  I 
believe  most  men  concurred  with  me  in  supposing  that  you  had 
feeling  enough  to  be  ashamed  of  a  transaction  which  you  had 
not  courage  to  avoid.  The  resignation  with  which  you  seemed 
to  submit  to  your  ignominy  was  some  pledge  of  your  delicacy, 
if  not  of  your  integrity.  You  was  pitied,  I  believe,  by  all  man- 
kind, and  perhaps  by  some  you  were  forgiven :  the  transaction 
sunk,  as  it  might  be  supposed  you  wished  it  should,  in  silence 
and  obscurity.  It  was  not,  I  believe,  imagined  that  you  would 
ever  be  found  hardy  enough  to  renew  the  consideration  of  an 
affair  which  every  man  who  felt  for  you  must  wish  to  be  for- 
gotten. It  was  not  conceived  that  so  short  a  time  would  have 
reconciled  you  to  a  measure  which  no  man  of  understancring 
could  view  without  ridicule.  But  we  live  in  an  age  where  no 
inconsistency  is  irreconcilable,  and  are  governed  by  men  with 
whom  no  villany  is  inconsistent.     They  have,  I  suppose,  my 


880         Mt8C£LLAKE0US  LETTERS  ASCRIBED   TO  JliNiCS. 

Lord,  mado  a  convert  of  your  understanding  as  well  as  yout 
integrity,  and  you  may  be  indebted  to  the  piety  of  Lord  Sand- 
wich for  a  system  of  ideas  more  conformable  to  the  plan  you 
have  pursued.     He  may  have  taught  you,  tbat  to  repent  of 
successful  villany  is  still  greater  folly  than  to  preserve  inte- 
grity.    I  congratulate  you  on  the  connection  you  have  formed, 
and  the  acquisition  you  have  secured ;  especially  since  you  have 
lost  nothing  but  your  honour — a  term  *'more   adapted  to 
Roman  barbarism  than  to  the  civilized  regulations  of  Engli>h 
(I  beg  pardon — Scotch)  policy.'*    Your  Lordship,  I  believe, 
recollects  the  inconsistency  which  occasions  this  address.  Your 
speech  on  the  Duke  of  Richmond's  motion  in  the  House  of 
Lords  was  a  pretty  remarkable  adventure.     Had  you  content- 
edly and  professedly  resigned  yourself,  without  attempting  to 
reconcile  your  present  with  your  former  system,  your  conduct, 
believe  me,  would  never  have  called  out  a  second  attack  on  so 
truly  contemptible  a  being.     It  is  the  singular  immodesty  of 
your  behaviour  which  I  own  has  tempted  me  to  expose  you,  as 
you  are  willing  to  be  an  object  of  public  detestation  and  dis- 
gust.    There  are  few  men,  except  Mr.  Wedderburne  and  your 
Lordship,  who  would  have  gone  through  the  difficulty  of  ex- 
posing themselves  to  those  who  had  such  evidence  against 
them,  with  that  happy  indifiPerence  which  we  have  experienced 
from  you  both.     To  preserve  the  hypocrisy  of  patriotism,  after 
you  had  openly  made  your  compact  with  corruption ;  to  profess 
consistency  in  adhering  to  the  words  of  a  protest,  on  the  tenour 
of  which  your  whole  conduct  is  the  grossest  ridicule ;  and  to 
possess  the  characteristical  firmness  of  administration  in  reviv- 
ing 80  ignominious  a  consideration,  requires  more  courage  and 
intrepidity  than  most  men  have  the  good  fortune  to  possess : 
but  I  allow  your  friend  Wedderburne  has  outstripped  you.  He 
has  modestly  ventured  not  only  virtually,  but  directly,  to  attack 
opposition  for  measures  which  he  himself  concurred  in  pro- 
moting ;  and  hears  himself  despised,  execrated,  detested,  with- 
out fear,  and  without  anger.    Let  him  excuse  me  when  I 
assure  him,  with  some  very  allowable  pride,  that  I  do  not 
think  he  has  a  claim  to  any  notice  beyond  my  advice  to  consi- 
der, that  the  power  from  whence  he  derives  very  superior  abi- 
^ties  will  expect,  and  must  receive,  an  account  to  what  pur- 
poses they  have  been  employed.     You  will  now,  perhaps,  ask 
me,  in  all  the  hypocritical  simplicity  of  St  James*s,  what  part 


DOMTTUN   TO  THE   PUBLIC   ADViCRTISKB.  381 

had  I  to  act,  after  making  a  traffic  of  my  auilities,  which  raignt 
not  have  given  offence  ?  I  justified  before  till  mankind  tlie 
protest  which  I  had  signed,  and  the  pen  of  satire  has  been 
busy  to  condemn  me.  Had  my  conduct  been  dilferent,  would 
it  have  been  consistent  ?  Would  it  have  been  satisfactory  ? 
To  this  1  must  answer,  you  had  brought  yourself,  my  Lord, 
into  that  odious  situation  where  you  could  neither  retreat  with 
decency  nor  persevere  with  iutegiity.  But  to  have  retired 
from  the  curses  of  your  countrymen  would  have  been  remem- 
bered, I  believe,  more  to  your  credit  as  a  man,  if  not  as  a 
minister.  But  I  make  too  gveat  allowance,  I  find,  for  human 
nature.  I  have  not  reflected  that  the  only  valuable  considera- 
tion is  interest ;  and  1  have  forgot  that  influence  to  which  Mr. 
Yorke  is  indebted  for  a  very  hazardous  eternity.  For  the 
future  I  shall  learn  to  view  things  with  less  candour,  and 
observe  villany,  if  not  without  mortification,  at  least  without 
surprise.  I  shall  now  take  my  leave  of  your  Lordship,  proba- 
bly for  ever.  But  I  must  congratulate  you,  my  Lord,  on  that 
ambition  which  has  led  you  to  inquire  into  those  desirable 
arcana  of  a  court  by  which  you  have  learned  a  sort  of  loyalty 
distinct  from  duty  to  his  Majesty,  or  affection  to  his  family ; 
by  which  you  have  found  that  it  will  be  for  your  interest,  and 
consequently  for  your  honour,  to  attach  yourself  hereafter  to 
men  who,  while  they  act  directly  contrary  to  the  interest  of 
their  countrymen,  and  are  indifferent  with  regard  to  their  con- 
fidence or  esteem,  can  hug  themselves  among  the  highest  of 
mankind,  and  ridicule  the  contemptible  folly  of  those  whose 
▼irtue  has  excluded  them  from  their  share  in  the  plunder  of 
the  public. 

HENRICUS. 


LETTER  XGVIIL 

DOMITIAN   TO   THE   PUBUC   ADVEBTISEB. 

Sib,  June  28,  1771. 

In  answer  to  the  card  repeatedly  addressed  to  Domitian  *,  he 

*  The  following  is  a  copy  of  the  card : — 

"  19  June,  1771. . 
"to  domitiav. 

"Xq  yna  second  letter  is  this  remarjcaoie  nromise — 'Tell  the  Duke^ 


882  MtSCELLAKE07S    LETTEBS   ASCttlBED   TO  JUNimi. 

desires  it  may  be  observed  that  although  he  has  net  altered 
his  sentiments  vdth  regard  to  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  the  case 
has  not  happened  in  ^rhich  he  thinks  himself  bound,  either  by 
the  letter  or  the  spirit  of  his  promise,  to  the  public.  The 
Duke  is  fiot  First  Lord  of  the  Admiralty  ♦,  i\or  is  he  actually 
in  any  post  in  which  patents  can  immediately  be  sold  by  him- 
self, or  by  Tommy  Bradshaw,  or  by  Miss  Polly  Bradshaw,  who, 
like  the  moon,  lives  upon  the  light  of  her  brother's  coun- 
tenance, and  robs  him  of  no  small  part  of  his  lustre.  The 
fact  was  notorious.  The  sale  of  that  patent  to  Mr.  Hine  (the 
only  man  of  merit  whom  the  Duke  of  Grafton  ever  provided 
for),  so  far  from  being  denied,  was  publicly  defended.  Yet 
the  House  of  Commons,  who  pretend  to  be  the  grand  inquest 
of  the  nation,  suffered  this  infamous  breach  of  trust  to  pass  by 
without  censure  or  examination.  For  the  present,  therefore, 
it  would  answer  no  good  purpose  for  Domitian  to  produce  his 
evidence.  But  perhaps  the  day  of  inquiry  is  not  far  off.  In 
the  meantime,  to  show  the  Duke  that  Domitian .  does  not 
speak  at  random,  he  begs  leave  to  remind  his  Grace  that 
there  are  three  such  persons  in  the  world  as  Ross,  the  agent ; 
Taylor,  the  house-builder;  and  Taylor's  little  hoy,—Verhum 
sat. 

Domitian,  upon  the  whole,  thinks  he  may  venture  to  leave 
the  Duke  of  Grafton,  or,  if  there  be  one  more  odious,  more 
base,  and  more  contemptible  person  of  rank  in  the  kingdom, 
that  he  may  safely  leave  them  both  to  the  care  of  Junius  f. 

GMion,  that  if  he  should  dare  to  entertain  the  most  distant  thought  of  the 
admizalty,  the  whole  affiiir  of  Hine^s  patent  shall  be  revived,  and  published 
with  an  accumulation  of  evidence.  He  at  least  shall  be  kept  under.  His 
Ciceronian  eloquence  shall  not  save  him.' 

"  As  the  Duke  of  Grafton  has  got  an  higher  and  more  lucrative  office,  it  is 
•xpected  by  the  public  that  you  now  fulJU  your  promite." 

*  His  Grace  had  now  rejoined  the  ministry,  and  held  the  office  of  Lord 
Privy  Seal 

t  He  refers  to  Jnnins's  two  letters  to  the  Duke  of  Giaftoiif  Not.  4$  an] 
BO,  datM  Jxum  22  and  Ju.y  9  1771,  voL  L  pp.  850  and  S6£L 


PARALLEL  CHARACTERS.  383 

LETTER  XCIX. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBUC  ABTERTISBB. 

Sib,  July  5, 1771. 

Events  and  characters  of  a  similar  nature  recur  so  often 
vdthin  the  compass  of  a  few  centuries,  that  history  is  in  efiect 
little  more  than  a  repetition.  The  scenes  and  names  of  the 
performers  are  changed,  hut  the  fable  is  the  same.  I  was  led 
tx)  this  observation  by  a  passage  I  lately  met  with  in  a  modern 
French  author.  The  account  he  gives  us  of  the  Emperor 
Valentiuian  the  Third  deserves  our  notice: — "  Le  premier 
soin  de  cette  princesse  fut  d'inspirer  a  son  fils  lliorreur  de 
rheresie  et  Ic  /espect  pour  Teglise ;  qualites  tr^s  estimables 
dans  un  souverain,  mais  qui  ne  purent  couvrir  le  vice  d  une 
education  molle  et  effeminee.  Sa  m^re  travailla  plus  a 
former  sa.croyance  que  son  esprit  ni  ses  moeurs;  aussi  fut-il 
toiyours  tres  Oatholique,  sans  ^tre  jamais  Chretien."  For 
the  benefit  of  my  Lord  Suffolk,  I  shall  give  you  a  translation. 
Mr.  WheaUey,  I  hear,  has  got  the  start  of  his  master,  and, 
with  the  help  of  a  dictionary,  may  do  it  into  English  for  him- 
self:— "The  Princess  Dowager  made  it  her  first  care  to 
inspire  her  son  with  horror  against  heresy,  and  with  a  respect 
for  the  church ;  qualities  much  to  be  esteemed  in  a  sovereign, 
but  not  sufficient  to  conceal  the  defects  of  a  soft  effeminate 
education.  His  mother  took  more  pains  to  form  his  belief 
than  either  his  morals  or  his  imderstanding,  so  that  he  was 
always  an  excellent  Catholic  without  ever  being  a  Christian.' 
I  do  not  mean  to  apply  the  passage,  but  merely  to  save  some 
fbtore  historian  the  trouble  of  drawing  a  new  character. 

I  am,  Sir, 

Your  humble  Servant. 

AN  INNOCENT  READEa 


384  MISCELLANEOUS  LETTERS  ASCRIBED   TO  JVVV3S. 


LETTER  C. 

TO   THE   PRINTER  OF  THE   PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 

Sir,  October  16, 177L 

If  the  pert  youth  who  calls  himself  An  Old  Correspmident*^ 
and  who  makes  free  with  Junius,  does  not  know  the  differeooo 
between  contact  and  coUision,  nor  between  the  frictum  which 
produces  the  electrical  powers,  and  the  action  of  fiint  and 
steel  which  produces  sparks  of  fire,  his  ignorance  must  be  de- 
plorable. But  what  right  has  he  to  change  the  terms  ?  Why 
say  contact  when  Junius  says  collision  f  When  this  pert 
youth  asks  what  virtue  there  is  in  Mr.  Wilkes,  I  wish  he 
would  tell  us  what  fire  there  is  in  flint  and  steel.  It  is  action 
that  makes  them  sparkle,  and,  if  there  be  anything  combus- 
tible in  the  passions  of  Mr.  Nash,  a  single  spark  may  set  hiu* 
on  fire. 

Again,  Junius  admits  the  strict  right  of  pressing  seamen, 
but  denies  the  King's  right  to  arm  hfs  subjects  in  general,  ex- 
cepting in  the  case  of  an  invasion.  This  my  pretty  Black 
Boy  calls  a  retractation  of  Junius  s  first  concession,  and  applies 
to  his  aged  father  for  an  old  woman's  proverb.  Junius  speaks 
of  softening  the  symptoms  of  a  disorder.  The  Bla^k  Boy 
changes  the  terms  again,  and  destroys  the  allusion.  The  rest 
of  his  letter  is  of  a  piece  with  these  instances ;  a  misrepresen^ 
ation  of  Junius,  equally  pert,  false,  and  stupid.  Ex  his  discs 
omnia, 

I  know  nothing  of  Junius,  but  I  see  plainly  that  lie  has 
designedly  spared  Lord  Holland  and  his  family  f.  Whether 
Lord  Holland  be  invulnerable,  or  whether  Junius  should  \>e 
wantonly  provoked,  are  questions  worthy  the  Black  Boy's  con- 
i^ideration. 

ANTI-FOX. 

*  A  letter  imder  this  idgnature  appeared  in  the  PuUte  Advertiser  iv 
answer  to  Junius  (Letter  No.  59,  vol.  i.),  and  was  by  him  attributed  to  Mr. 
Fox,  Lord  Holland's  second  son.  That  Junius  was  inclined  to  &Tour,  or 
father,  in  the  words  of  the  concluding  paragraph  of  this  letter,  to  spare  Lord 
Holland,  is  obvious  throughout  these  letters;  but  will  be  more  particularly 
seen  by  a  reference  to  Private  Letter,  No.  5. 

f  This  sentence  has  been  often  cited,  and  Dr.  Francis,  who  was  Lord 
Holland's  chaplain,  and  indebted  to  his  Lordship  for  valuable  church  prefer 
aMnt,  was  first  fixed  upon  as  Junius  by  Mr.  Taylor,     ^fhj  Anti-Fox. 


]IAKSFIEr.;)*8  BArLMENT  OF  ISYBB.  385 

LETTER  CI 

TO  THE  PBINTEB  OF  THE  FUBLIO  ADTEBTISER. 

Sib,  November  6,  1771. 

Junius,  I  see,  has  got  my  Lord  Mansfield  upon  the  hip,  and 
fairly  driven  the  Scotch  out  of  their  discretion,  and  almost  out 
of  their  senses.  The  change  in  the  apparent  position  of  their 
cheek  bones  is  very  remarkable.  The  complacent,  insidious 
smile  has  universally  given  way  to  a  ghastly  grin  of  rancour 
and  despair.  Your  correspondents  Anti-Junins  and  Onp  of 
the  Bail  actually  foam  at  the  mouth*.     But  calling  liar  and 

it  is  likely  was  Junius,  should  notice  the  connection,  seems  curious.  But 
it  was  doubtless  intended  for  mystification,  and  to  divert  any  suspicion  that 
the  author  of  the  sharp  reply  to  Bl<ick  Boy,  supposed  to  be  Lord  Holland' c 
son,  was  in  any  way  connected  with  his  Lordship's  iamily. — Ed. 

*  The  following  are  copies  of  the  letters  here  alluded  to,  which  certainly 
evince  no  small  degree  of  acrimony : — 

"to  the  pbintbr  of  thb  public  advebtiseil 

"Nov.  4, 1771, 
"  Sir, — You  have  inserted,  in  your  paper  of  Saturday  last,  a  short  but  in- 
famous  paragraph,  addressed  to  Lord  Chief  Justice  Mansfield,  and  signed 
Junius,  alleging  that  his  Lordship  had  admitted  to  bail  a  man  at  the  in^r« 
cession  of  three  of  his  countrymen,  who  Junius  presumes  is  also  a  Scotchman. 

"  In  justice  to  his  Lordship  (although  without  his  consent,  approbation,  or 
knowledge),  I  hereby  declare,  that  he  did  not  know  who  were  the  bail  for 
Mr.  Eyre,  nor  did  any  of  them  ever  make  any  prior  application  to  his  Lord- 
ship, nor  were  they  personally  acquainted  with  him,  though  'tis  probable  his 
Lordship  might  have  seen  them  on  juries.  I  also  declare  that  Mr.  Eyre  is 
not  a  Scotchman,  but  an  Englishman ;  and  from  what  I  can  guess  of  Junius, 
he  is  worse  than  either,  viz.  an  Irishman,  a  liar,  and  a  Jesuit 

*i  None  of  the  three  gentlemen  who  bailed  Mr.  Byre  ever  saw  him  till  the^ 
morning  they  went  to  Lord  Mansfield's,  at  Cane  Wood,  to  bail  him.     This 
they  did  purely  to  oblige  an  intimate  friend  who  was  connected  with  him  by 
marriage,  without  any  other  motive  whatsoever. 

'*  Whether  the  noble  Lord,  whose  very  great  abilities  have  brought  upon 
him,  though  unjustly,  the  envy  and  malice  of  such  assassins  as  Junius,  was 
right  or  wrong,  I  leave  to  the  learned  in  the  law  to  defend ;  and  have  no 
doubt  his  Lordship  has  acted  in  this  matter  according  to  his  usual  ability  in 
law  affiiirs,  and  rather  with  a  view  to  enhuge  than  contract  th^  liberty  of  the 
subject.  At  the  same  time,  Mr.  Printer,  I  shoiild  wish  to  be  certain  who 
this  Mr.  Junius  is  who  stabs  all  good  characters  in  the  dark.  My  reason  is, 
I  should  be  glad  of  an  opportunity  of  using  such  a  lying,  in&mous,  cowavdi.f 
scoundrel  as  he  ought  to  be ;  for  which  purpose  (if  he  chooses  it)  I  have  left 
my  name  with  the  printer. 

"  One  of  the  three  who  hailed  Mr  EyreJ' 

VOL    II.  0  0 


886  MISCELLANEOUS   LETTERS  ASCRIBED   TO  JUNITTR. 

scoundrel  is  no  answer  to  Junius.  He  did  not  assert  that 
the  thief  was  a  Scotchman  * ;  he  only  presumed  it,  from  the 
circumstance  of  his  being  bailed  by  three  of  that  country.  It 
appears  now  that  the  thief  was  closely  connected  with  Scotland. 
These  sweet-blooded  children,  even  when  they  bail  an  English- 
man, adhere  to  their  principles.  If  the  devil  himself,  oon- 
nected  as  he  is  with  an  ancient  nation,  were  taken  up  for 
felony,  I  do  not  doubt  that  all  Scotland,  to  a  mon,  would 
readily  be  his  security. 

Junius  did  not  blame  the  baU  for  interesting  themselves  in 
favour  of  their  friend,  countryman,  or  associate.  Yet  he 
might  have  done  it  with  propriety.  The  thief  was  not 
charged  on  suspicion,  but  taken  in  the  fact  He  was,  ipso 
factOy  a  felon,  and  to  bail  him  required  all  the  natural  bene- 

*'to  juhito. 

"Not.  4, 1771. 
**  ToT7  seem  to  delight  most  in  traducing  ilie  most  exalted  and  most  respect- 
able characters. 

"  You  Mjff  Lord  Mansfield  btdled  Mr.  Byre  at  the  trUercessum  of  three  of 
his  countrymen. 

"I  say,  that  ia  false  ;  and  that  what  he  did  was  his  duty  to  do  as  Lord 
Chief  Justice  of  England,  and  peifectly  agreeable  to  law  and  to  constant 
practice. 

"  You  say,  that  you  presume  Mr.  Eyre  is  a  Scotchman, 

**  I  say,  the  culprit  is  an  Englishman. 

**  You  say,  his  bail  were  all  Ssotchmen. 

**I  say,  they  were.  And  how  did  that  happeni  Because  a  Scotchman  is^ 
by  marriage,  unhappily  allied  to  him.  And  why  should  it  be  deemed  a  re- 
proach that  they  joined  in  doing  a  good-natured  office  at  the  request  of  a 
countryman  %  Or  that  they  contributed  to  alleviate  the  distress  of  an  inno- 
cent woman,  who,  though  unfortunately  connected  with  the  criminal,  had  not 
a  participation  in  his  guilt  ?  Dost  not  thou  know,  thou  slanderer,  that  the 
offence,  though  felony  by  law,  was  of  the  slightest  kind  ?  And  wonldst  thou 
not,  had  that  able  and  amiable  judge  (whose  name  will  be  an  everlasting 
honour  to  this  country)  refused  to  admit  Mr.  Eyre  to  bail,  have  tradu(»d  his 
Lordship  for  that  very  refusal,  and  chaiged  him  with  executing  the  law  with 
wanton  rigour  because  he  wu  an  Englishman  t 

"  Mr.  Byre  has  been  brought  to  tnal,  and  has  pleaded  guilty.  I  say,  ne» 
vertheless,  that  the  o£fence  by  the  laws  of  England  is  bailable;  and  I  pledge 
myself,  before  God  and  my  country,  to  prove  that  Lord  Chief  Justice  Mans- 
field acted  in  this  matter  agreeable  to  law,  and  that  Junius  has  shown  limself 
in  this,  and  many  other  instances,  a  public  incendiary  and  a  liar, 

"Ahti-Juotub." 

*  His  words  are,  ''  At  the  intercession  of  three  of  your  countrymen  tob 
have  bailed  a  man  who,  IpresumSs  is  also  a  Scotchman."  See  Joniusu  Le^ 
^66. 


CARRIAGE   OF  THE   DUKE   OF   CUMBERLAND.  887 

?oleuc6  of  Scotland.  Either  he  had  no  English  friends,  oi 
they  were  ashamed  to  acknowledge  any  connection  with  him. 
Instead  of  meeting  Junius  upon  the  stnct  question  of  law, 
these  loons  wander  into  circumstances  of  no  moment,  or 
defend  Lord  Mansfield  hy  apocryphal  assertions,  which,  if 
true,  would  be  nothing  to  the  purpose.  One  says  that  he  has 
surrendered  and  taken  his  trial,  the  other  that  no  intercession 
was  made  with  Lord  MansBeld — one  says  that  the  felony  (for 
which  the  culprit  is  unluckily  transported)  was  of  the  slightcsv 
kind,  the  other  says  that  Eyre  is  an  Englishman.  Now  the 
plain  matter  of  fact  is  this:  a  thief  taken  in  the  fact  is 
refused  bail  by  the  Lord  Major  of  London ;  three  Scotchtnen 
take  the  said  thief  or  felon  before  another  Scotchman,  who 
bails  the  said  felon.  The  single  question  arising  from  the 
fiEict  is,  ira«  he  or  wa»  he  not  bailaih  by  law  f    For  my  own 

K,  until  I  hear  good  reasons  to  the  contrary,  I  shall  abide 
'unius,  because  I  am  persuaded  be  would  not  hazard  his 
credit  so  unnecessarily  if  he  were  not  very  sure  of  his  law. 

A.  B. 


LETTER  Oil*. 

TO  THE  DUKE  OF  0X7HBERLAND. 

Sib,  November  13, 1771. 

*  I  BEG  your  Hojal  Highnesses  acceptanoe  of  my  sincere  com- 
pliments of  congratulation  upon  your  auspicious  union  with 
the  daughter  of  Lord  Imhamf,  and  the  sister  of  Colonel 

*  Of  this  letter  Jnniiu  writes,  '*  Cumbrienais  has  taken  greatly.**  Private 
Letter,  No.  43. 

+  The  marriage  of  the  late  Dnke  of  Cumberland  was  first  amnoonced  to 
the  readers  of  the  PublieAdvertiter  in  the  following  communication,  obviously 
from  the  pen  of  Junius : — 

"  IVTBLUOnrOB  EXT&AOBDINABT,  THOVaH  TbUI. 

"  We  can  assure  the  public  that  his  Boy&l  Highness  the  Duke  of  Cumber- 
land is  happily  married  to  Mrs.  Horton,  sister  of  Lieutenant<)olonel  Luttrell, 
the  worthy  nominee  of  Middlesex.  The  new-married  pair  are  now  cele* 
brating  their  nuptials  in  France,  where  the  Duchess  of  Cumberland  receives 
all  the  honours  due  to  her  high  rank  and  new  relation  to  the  House  of 
Bninswiek.  This  match,  we  are  informed,  was  negodated  by  a  certain  duke 
(GtaftoB)|  and  his  cream-coloured  parasite  (Bradshaw),  by  way  of  reward  H 

0  0  a 


388  MISCELTANEOVS   LETTRR8  ASCRIBED   TO  JUNIUS 

Luttrell.  For  the  present  you  will  have  so  few  of  these  c  ym 
pliments  paid  you,  that  mine,  perhaps,  may  he  thought  wort h^r 
your  attention.  I  do  assure  your  Eoyal  Highness,  with  great 
sincerity,  that,  when  I  consider  the  various  excellencies  which 
adorn  or  constitute  your  personal  character — ^your  natural 
parts — ^your  affahle,  benevolent,  generous  temper — your  good 
sense,  so  singularly  improved  by  experience — and,  above  all 
the  rest,  the  uncommon  education  which  your  venerable 
mother  took  care  to  give  you — I  do  not  think  it  possible  to 
have  found  a  more  suitable  match  for  you  than  that  which  you 
have  so  discreetly  provided  for  yourself.  What  you  have 
done,  will,  I  am  sure,  be  no  disgrace  to  yourself  or  to  any  of 
your  relations.  Yet  I  must  confess,  partial  as  I  am  to  you 
for  the  sake  of  that  good  prince  of  whose  resemblance  you 
carry  some  cutting  traces  about  you,  I  could  wish  you  did  not 
stand  quite  so  near  as  you  do  to  the  regency  and  crown  of 
England.  God  forbid  I  should  ever  hear  your  royal  nephews 
say,  as  Edward  the  Fifth  does  in  the  play,  BtU  why  to  the 
Tower,  uncle! — Or  why  should  you  lock  us  upy  aunt! — I  mean 
their  uncle  Luttrell  and  aunt  Horton. 

But,  my  good  youth,  let  no  considerations  of  this  sort  inter- 
rupt your  pleasures.    Your  amiable  spouse  is  as  much  Duchess 
of  Cumberland  as  our  gracious  Queen  is  Queen  of  Great 
Britain ;  and  of  course  she  is  the  second  woman  in  the  kingdom 
Your  papa  Imham  must  at  least  take  rank  of  Lord  Mansfield ; 

Colonel  Lnttrell.  [  Vide  vol.  i  p.  443.]  It  is  now,  happily  for  this  conntnr, 
within  the  limits  of  possibility  that  a  Luttrell  may  be  lung  of  Great  Bri- 
tain.    There  was  no  court  yesterday."  ^ 


*  Henry,  Duke  of  Cumberland,  commemorated  above,  was  one  of  the  three 
inrviying  brothers  of  George  III.  His  marriage  with  Mrs.  Horton  had  been 
privately  solemnized,  October  the  4th,  at  her  house  in  Hertford  Street,  May- 
&ir.  When  the  match  was  publicly  announced  the  King  forbad  them  the 
court  But  the  royal  displeasare  did  not  prevent  the  Duke  of  Gloucester,  in 
the  ensuing  spring,  from  avowing  as  his  consort  the  Countess  Dowager  of 
Waldegrave,  whom  he  had  privately  married  in  April.  1766.  The  marriages 
gave  rise  to  the  B>oyal  Marriage  Act  of  1772,  which  disqualified  the  descend- 
ants  of  George  II.  firom  contracting  marriage  without  the  previous  consent  of 
the  Crown,  unless  above  twenty-iive  years  of  age,  and  then  not  without 
twelve  months'  prior  notice  to  the  Privy  Council,  and  the  implied  consent  ti 
both  houses  of  Parliament  These  restrictions  were  vigorously  Intt  m> 
effectually  opposed  in  Parliament — Ed. 


LETTER   OF  ANTI-BELTAL.  389 

« 

your  brother  Henry  of  the  Princes  of  Mecklenburg ;  and  your 
fiister  Miss  Liittrell  of  Madam  Swellenburgh.  As  to  the 
King's  not  acknowledging  the  Duchess,  or  forbidding  her  the 
court,  it  signifies  nothing.  Her  marriage  is  good  in  law,  and 
her  children  will  be  legitimate.  She  may  order  plays,  keep 
^  court  of  her  own,  and  set  the  Princess  Dowager  at  defiance. 
But  you  need  have  no  fear  of  being  ill  used.  Your  brother 
Harry  has  a  dagger  at  the  throat  of  a  certain  person,  and 
swears  he  will  let  the  cat  out  of  the  bag  about  the  Middlesex 
election.  So  far  from  offending  Harry,  I  should  not  wonder 
to  see  him  aide-de-camp  to  the  King,  and,  in  a  little  time, 
commander-in-chief. 

Whenever  you  want  a  divorce,  you  need  only  leave  youi 
spouse  alone  for  an  hour  or  two  with  ***  ****** .  *  WhetA 
he  pnerformed  the  oflQce  of  father  to  PoU  Davis,  and  gave  her 
to  his  infatuated  friend,  he  contrived  to  send  the  young  man 
upon  a  fool's  errand,  and  that  very  night  consummated  with 
her  himself.  You,  I  know,  Sir,  will  never  go  upon  a  fool's 
errand,  and  I  suppose  it  may  be  equally  certain  that  your 
papa,  if  he  had  an  opportunity,  would  not  ******  **  **  **f . 

GUMBBIENSISt 


LETTER  cm. 

TO  THE   PRINTER   OF  THE   PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 

Sib,  November  19,  1771. 

I  HAVE  great  faith  in  Junius,  and  wish  the  friends  of  the  cause 
would  leave  Lord  Mansfield  entirely  to  his  care§.  It  is  not 
fair  to  anticipate  his  arguments,  or  to  run  down  the  gamo 
which  he  has  started.  Junius,  I  dare  say,  has  it  as  much  at 
heart  to  sacrifice  Mansfield,  with  his  own  pen,  as  Achilles  had 

*  Doubtless  Lord  Irnfaam,  afterwards  Barl  of  Garhampton,  of  whom  sett 
Jnnius's  note,  vol.  i.  p.  443.—  Ed. 

f  The  omitted  words  are  probably,  "  commit  incest.** 

^  This  letter  is  indirectly  acknowledged  by  Junius  in  his  private  corre- 
spondence, No.  43. 

$  A  great  number  of  letters  appeared  in  support  of  the  doctrine  maintained 
by  Junius  on  the  subject  of  the  bailment  of  Eyre.  But  the  authors  could  not 
haTe  been  lawyers  any  more  than  Junius.  The  question  is  settled  on  hi§^ 
authority,  ia  the  Inquiry  into  the  Anthorship  of  Junius. — £x>. 


390         MISCELLANEOUS   LETTEBS   ASCKIBED   TO  JUNTOS. 

to  prevent  any  other  of  the  Grecian  army  from  killing  Hector 
The  passage  I. allude  to  is  one  of  the  finest  in  the  Iliad. 

Mnrsg  »t^«t  &P9tr*  fittXi/ff  i  ^  hvTt^»t  iJL^m." 

22  B.  line  20& 
Divine  Achilles,  lest  some  Ghreek*8  adyance 
Should  snatch  ihe  glory  from  his  lifted  lance. 
Signed  to  the  troops  to  yield  his/o«  the  way. 
And  leaye  untouched  the  honours  of  the  day.— Pops. 

Yours, 

ANTI-BELIAL*. 


LETTER  CIV. 

TO   THE   FBINTEB  OF   THE   PUBLIC   ADYERTISEB. 

Sir,  December  4, 1771. 

YouB  ingenious  correspondent,  Antl-Junius,  has  too  much  wit 
and  taste  to  he  easily  satisfied.  It  is  really  a  misfortune  to  he 
born  with  such  exquisitely  fine  feelings.  If,  now  that  he  is  well 
fed  and  clothed,  he  cannot  endure  the  severity  of  a  southern 
breeze,  what  would  become  of  him  upon  his  native  mountains? 
Junius  can  never  write  to  please  him.  If  he  receives  the  least 
mention  of  past  enormities,  what  is  it  but  **  cold  scraps,  Iniked 
meats^  political  fiddling,  and  the  voice  of  ihe  charmer  V  hashed 
mutton,  and  Dutch  music  with  a  vengeance  !  If,  on  the  contrary, 
he  lays  any  new  villanies  before  the  public,  then,  one  and  all, 
the  hungry  pack  open  upon  him  at  once :  "  Here's  invention  for 
you! — What  an  abominable  liar! — Why  does  he  not  stick  to 
his  facts  f  Does  he  think  ils  such  idiots  as  to  swallow  unt  for 
truth  ? "  In  short.  Sir,  the  Scotch  have  strange  qualmish 
stomachs ;  it  is  not  in  the  art  of  cookery  to  please  them.  No- 
thing will  go  down  but  oatmeal  and  brimstone. 

Anti-Juniu>s  is  not  so  explicit  as  I  could  wish.     1.  What 
intercourse  was  that  between  Lord  Imham  and  his  daughter, 


*  The  letters  of  Anti-Belial,  and  the  next,  from  Juniper,  are  doubtl 
from  the  varied  and  prolific  pen  of  Junius.     They  are  minor  Phi1o-Juniiiae% 
to  expUtWK  defend,  and  support  the  reputation  of  the  principal. — Bi>. 


LETTEB  OF  JUNIP£B  8dl 

vrhich  he  says  has  been  so  long  interrupted  f  I  mean  no  of- 
fence to  the  lady,  but  really  the  word  intercourse  is  a  little 
equivocal,  d.  What  was  that  purpose  for  which  Sir  James 
Liowther's  grant  was  obtained,  and  which,  Anti-Junitis  says, 
has  been  long  since  defeated  ^  8.  Who  does  he  mean  by  a  man 
ever  hurthensome  to  every  administration  f  I  hope  he  does 
not  mean  the  Duke  of  Grafton's  friend,  Sir  James  Lowther, 
or  at  least  that  he  does  not  give  the  Baronet  this  pretty  cha- 
riM^ter  by  order  of  the  Duke  of  Grafton. 

After  all,  I  really  think  that  Junius,  called  upon  as  he  is 
by  so  able  an  antagonist,  cannot  do  less  than  discover  himself. 
He  must  be  woefully  given  to  suspicion,  if  he  has  the  least 
doubt  of  the  tender  mercy  of  the  Scotch,  or  of  the  forgiving 

piety  of  St.  James's. 

JUNIPEE*. 

*  The  following  are  the  passages  in  AnJd-Juniui i  answer  to  Junius,  Letter 
67,  to  which  a  reply  is  more  particularly  given  in  the  above  : — 

"  Had  Junius  a  single  friend  in  the  world  whom  he  dared  trast  or  consult 
his  performance  of  yesterday,  so  uninstructive  to  your  readers,  so  &tal  to  his 
reputation,  would  surely  have  never  found  its  way  to  the  press.  His  invec- 
tive  has  neither  novelty  nor  variety  to  recommend  it ;  the  public  palate  must 
nauseate  at  the  insipidity  of  his  repeated  abuse,  and  loathe  the  repast  which 
his  miserable  thrift  has  attemoted  to  furnish  forth  from  the  cold  scraps  and 
baked  meats  of  his  former  scumlous  entertainments.  In  vain  does  this  poli- 
tical  fiddler  labour  for  the  public  attention,  by  thrumming  the  worn-out 
strings  of  Middlesex  election,  Whittlehnry  timber,  Hine's  patent,  and  the 
l»ng-forgotten  rule  made  absolute  against  Mr.  Yaaghan.  The  voice  of  the 
charmer  himself  can  no  longer  charm  with  these  sounds ;  these  chords  so 
repeatedly  struck  &11  flat,  even  upon  the  ear  of  envy  itself. 


tt 


With  the  recriminating  malice  of  antiquated  virginity,  he  endeavours  to 
•ully  the  daughter's  innocence  with  the  father's  crimes,  suppressing  a  well- 
known  circumstance,  viz.  that  all  intercourse  between  that  fiither  and  that 

daughter  has  long  been  intenupted. 

•  •  *  • 

"  Sir  James  Lowther's  nonsuit  is  in  the  eye  of  the  heaven-reading  Junius 
another  visible  operation  of  retribution,  not  on  the  King,  indeed — he  does  not 
■eem  to  be  aifected  by  it,  any  fiirther  than  as  it  ban  introduced  the  piirenthe- 
ais  of  the  Luttrell  alliance — bat  on  the  poor  Duke  of  Grafion,  whose  days  are 
anxious,  and  whose  nights  ajre  sleepless,  because  a  grant,  obtained  to  serve  a 
purpose  long  since  defeated,  and  to  gratify  the  importunities  of  a  man  ever 
burthensome  to  every  administration,  is  adjudged  invalid.  For  this  the  Duke 
of  Ghmfton  wears  the  dismal  countenance  of  solitary  sorrow  ;  for  this  does  he 
fruitlessly  look  round  for  consolations  ;  for  this  does  Mr.  Brodshaw  shed  the 
April  showers  of  lambent  lamentation.     Surely  Junius  thinks  to  mislead  lea^ 


392  MISCELLANEOUS  LETTEBS  ABCJOIBED  70  JUKITS. 


LETTER  CV 

TEFEBAN  TO  J/)BD   BARRING  TON. 

Mt  Lord,  Jannary  28, 1772. 

I :  is  unlucky  for  the  army  that  you  should  be  so  thoroughly  con 
nnced  as  you  are  how  extremely  low  you  stand  in  their  opinion. 
The  consciousness  that  you  are  despised  and  detested  by  every 
individual  in  it,  from  the  drummer  (whose  discipline  might  be 
of  service  to  you)  to  the  general  officer,  makes  you  desperate 
about  your  conduct  and  character.  You  think  that  you  are 
arrived  at  a  state  of  security,  and  that,  being  plunged  to  the 
very  heels  in  infamy,  the  dipping  has  made  you  invulnerable. 
There  is  no  other  way  to  account  for  your  late  frantic  resolu- 
tion of  appointing  Tony  Shammy  your  deputy-secretary  at  war. 
Yet  I  am  far  from  meaning  to  impeach  his  character  as  a 
broker.  In  that  line  he  was  qualified  to  get  forward  by  his 
industry,  birth,  education,  and  accomplishments.  I  make  no 
sort  of  doubt  of  his  cutting  a  mighty  pretty  figure  at  Jonathan  s. 
To  this  hour  among  bulls  and  bears  his  name  is  mentioned  with 
respect.  Every  Israelite  in  the  alley  is  in  raptures.  What,  our 
old  friend,  little  Shammy ! — Ay,  he  was  always  a  tight,  active 
little  Jellow,  and  would  wrangle  for  an  eighth  as  if  he  had  been 
horn  in  Jerusalem,  Who'd  ha'  thought  it !  Well,  we  may  now 
look  out  for  the  rebuilding  of  tlie  temple.  My  Lord,  if  I  re- 
member right,  you  are  partial  to  the  spawn  of  Jonathans. 
Witness  the  care  you  took  to  provide  for  Mr.  Delafon- 
taine  in  the  military  department.  He  limped  a  little  when 
he  left  the  alley  *,  but  your  Lordship  soon  set  him  upon  his 
legs  again.  This  last  resolution,  however,  approaches  to  mad- 
ton,  and  annihilate  common-sense,  by  tho  use  of  a  few  ridiculom  half* 
meaning  epithets. 


«t 


If  you  are  really  the  honpst  state-gardener  you  would  be  thouqfht,  and 
not  the  malicious  discontented  impostor  I  think  you,  away  with  ynnr  shuf- 
fling well-worded  delays.  The  noisome  plant,  that  has  brought  forth  such 
bitter  fruit  is  surely  now  ripe  enough  to  be  plucked." 

*  The  transactions  here  referred  to  in  respect  to  Delafontaine  nnd  Chamier, 
or  Shammy,  as  he  was  called  in  the  alley,  are  more  particularly  notir**d  in 
the  Private  Letters.  Nos.  62  and  56.  Chamier  was  successor  in  ths  Wat 
OiBce  to  Mr.  D*0«?  z$  who  was  discarded  to  make  room  for  him. 


TETERAN  TO  LORD  BARRlMG'ntN.  898 

11638  Your  cream-coloured  Mercuiy*  has  over-reach od  both 
you  and  himHeii ;  and  remember  what  I  seriously  tell  you,  this 
measure  wili,  sooner  or  later,  be  the  cause,  not  of  your  dis« 
grace  (that  aHairs  settled),  but  of  your  ruin.  What  daemon 
|>os&essed  you  to  place  a  little  gambling  broker  at  the  head  of 
the  War  Office,  and  in  a  post  of  so  much  rank  and  confidence 
as  that  of  deputy  to  the  Secretary  at  War  ?  (I  speak  of  your 
office,  not  of  your  person.)  Do  you  think  that  his  having  been 
useful  in  certain  practices  to  Lord  Sandwich  gives  any  great 
relief  to  his  character,  or  raises  him  in  point  of  rank  ?  My 
Lord,  the  rest  of  the  world  laugh  at  your  choice;  but  we 
soldiers  feel  it  as  an  indignity  to  the  whole  army,  and  be 
assured  we  shall  resent  it  accordingly.  Not  that  I  think  you 
pay  much  regard  to  the  sensations  of  anything  under  the  de- 
gree of  a  general  officer,  and  even  that  rank  you  have  publicly 
stigmatized  in  the  most  opprobrious  terms.  Yet  still  some  of 
them,  though  in  your  wise  opinion  not  qualified  to  command, 
are  entitled  to  respect.  Let  us  suppose  a  case,  which  every 
man  acquainted  with  the  War  Office  will  admit  to  be  very  pro- 
bable. Suppose  a  lieutenant-general ,  who  perhaps  may  be  a  peer^ 
or  a  member  of  the  House  of  Commons,  does  you  the  honoui* 
to  wait  upon  you  for  instructions  relative  to  his  regiment. 
After  explaining  yourself  to  him  with  your  usual  accuracy  and 
decision,  you  naturally  refer  him  to  your  deputy  for  the  detail 
of  the  business.  My  dear  General,  Tm  prodigiotuly  hurried. 
But  do  me  tJie  favour  to  go  to  Mr,  Shammy ;  go  to  little 
WaddleweU;  go  to  my  duckling;  go  to  little  three  per  ceiiti 
reduced ;  you  'II  find  him  a  mere  scrip  of  a  secretary ;  an 
OMNIUM  of  all  that's  genteel;  the  activity  of  a  broker ;  the 
politeness  of  a  hair-dresser ;  the —  the —  the —  do, 

Ovjc  general  officer,  we  may  presume,  being  curious  to  see 
this  wonderful  Girgashite,  the  following  dialogue  passes  be- 
tween them : — 

Lieut.'Gen.  Sir,  the  Secretary  at  War  refers  me  to  you  for 
an  account  of  what  was  done — 

WaddleweU  Done,  Sir!  Closed  at  three-eighths!  Looked 
flat,  I  must  own ;  but  to-morrow,  my  dear  Sir,  I  hope  to  see 
a  more  lively  appearance. 

*  T.  Brndshaw,  whose  absurd  elevation  has  been  already  oticed,  lud  wiB 
•oeAsioually  be  found  observed  upon  again. 


804  MISCELLANEOUS   LETTERS  ASCRIBED   TO  JUNIUS. 

Luut.'Oen,     Sir,  I  speak  of  the  non-effective  fund. 

Waddletvell.  Fund,  my  dear  Sir!  In  what  fund  would  you 
wish  to  be  concerned  ?  Speak  freely :  you  may  confide  in  your 
humble  servant — I'm  all  discretion. 

Lieut. 'Gen.  Sir,  I  really  don't  understand  you.  Lord  Bar- 
rington  says  that  my  regiment  may  possibly  be  thought  of  for 
India — 

Waddlewell.  India,  my  dear  Sir!  Strange  fluctuation! 
from  fourteen  and  an  half  to  twenty- two— never  stood  a  mo- 
ment, but  ended  cheerful :  no  mortal  can  account  for  it ! 

Lieut, 'Gen,  Damn  your  stocks,  Sir  I  Tell  me  whether  the 
commission — 

WaddleivelL  As  for  commission,  my  dear  Sir,  III  venture 
to  say  that  no  gentleman  in  the  alley  does  business  upon  easier 
terms.  I  never  take  less  than  an  eighth,  except  from  Lord 
Sandwich  and  my  brother-in-law ;  but  they  deal  largely,  and 
you  must  be  sensible,  my  dear  Sir,  that  when  the  commission 
is  extensive,  it  may  be  worth  a  broker's  while  to  content  him- 
self with  a  sixteenth. 

The  general  officer,  at  last,  fatigued  with  such  extravagance, 
quits  the  room  in  disgust,'  and  leaves  the  intoxicated  broker  to 
settle  his  accounts  by  himself. 

After  such  a  scene  as  this,  do  you  think  that  any  man  of 
rank  or  consequence  in  the  army  will  ever  apply  to  you  or  your 
deputy  again  ?  Will  any  officer  of  rank  condescend  to  receive 
orders  from  a  little  whiffling  broker,  to  whom  he  may  formerly, 
perhaps,  have  given  half-a-crown  for  negociating  an  hundred 
pound  stock,  or  sixpence  for  a  lottery  ticket  ?  My  Lord,  with- 
out a  jest,  it  is  indecent — it  is  odious — it  is  preposterous. 
Our  gracious  master,  it  is  said,  reads  the  newspapers.  If  he 
does,  he  shall  know  minutely  in  what  manner  you  treat  his 
faithful  army.  This  is  the  first  of  sixteen  letters  addressed  to 
your  Lordship,  which  are  ready  for  the  press,  and  shall  appeat 
ts  fast  as  it  suits  the  printer's  convenience 

YBTSBAN. 


LBTTEB  OF  ANTI-BEXJAL.  395 

» 

LETTER  CVI. 

■ 

TO  THE  PBINTEB  OF  THE  PUBLIO   ADYBBTISEB. 

SlBy  February  6, 1772. 

Thebe  is  one  general,  easy  way  of  answering  Junius,  which  his 
opponents  have  constantly  had  recourse  to  since  he  first  began 
to  write,  or  they  to  answer  him.  They  either  misquote  his 
words  and  misstate  his  propositions,  or  they  laboriously  em 
ploy  themselves  in  refuting  doctrines  which  he  has  not  main- 
tained, or  maintaining  others  which  he  has  not  disputed  ^ 
This  has  been  particularly  their  practice  in  all  the  argument 
about  the  bailment  of  Eyre. 

1st.  Junius  has  never  affirmed  that  the  judges  of  the  Court 
of  King  s  Bench  were  named,  or  specially  comprehended,  in 
the  statute  of  Westminster,  or  any  other  of  the  old  statutes 
preceding  the  Habeas  Corpus  Act.  The  design  of  those  quota- 
tions was  to  prove  the  meaning  and  intention  of  the  legislature 
with  respect  to  the  right  of  bailing  a  person  under  the  circum- 
stances of  Mr.  Eyre.  This  meaning  and  intention,  once 
clearly  proved,  he  affirms,  is  the  direction  and  land- mark  to 
the  judge  in  the  exercise  of  that  discretionary  power  which 
the  law  has  left  with  him. 

i^nd.  Junius  has  not  denied  that  the  judges  of  the  Court  of 
King's  Bench  have  a  discretionary  power  to  bail  in  all  cases, 
according  to  the  circumstances  of  the  cases.  But  does  it  follow 
that  they  may  legally  bail  when  no  circumstances  whatsoever 
are  alleged  on  one  side  to  alleviate  the  force  of  the  positive 
charge  of  felony  made  on  the  other  ?  If  it  does,  their  power 
of  bailing  is  arbitrary,  not  discretionary.  Discretion  implies 
consideration;  but  if  no  allegations  whatsoever  be  made  in 
behalf  of  the  prisoner,  they  have  then  nothing  to  consider. 
The  warrant  of  commitment  expresses  a  positive  charge  of 
felony.  If  nothing  be  alleged  in  behalf  of  the  prisoner,  the 
judge  has  then  no  subject  whereupon  to  exercise  his  discretion. 
He  has  no  choice :  he  must  remand  the  prisoner. 

•  Thig  letter  is  more  particularly  designed  as  a  reply  to  a  very  long  and 
elaborate  one  publisbed  the  preceding  day  in  the  Public  Advertiser,  and  ad 
dressed  -  Jnstinins  to  Junius.  It  is  certainly  well  writte  i,  \.Lt  TinqiiettioD 
ably  labours  under  the  defects  here  complained  o£ 


396  MISCELLANEOUS   LETTERS  ASCRIBED   10  JUNIUS 

3rd.  Junius  does  not  insist  upon  the  case  of  Eyre  so  much 
on  the  score  of  its  own  enormity,  as  because  it  establishe?.  a 
dangerous  doctrine,  applicable  to  all  crimes,  however  indisputa- 
bly proved,  and  gives  the  judges  an  arbitrary  power  which  the 
laws  never  meant  to  give  them.  As  for  Lord  Mansfield,  it  is 
probable  that  Junius  would  not  have  attacked  him  in  the  man- 
ner he  has  done  if  this  had  been  the  only  instance  of  his  mis- 
conduct.    In  truth,  it  is  one  out  of  a  multitude. 

I  beg  leave  to  conclude  with  asking  this  wicked  judge  two 
plain  questions : — 1.  Is  there,  or  is  there  not,  any  difference 
between  offences  bailable  and  offences  not  bailable  f  and  if 
there  be,  what  is  it?  2.  When  the  legislature,  in  the  Habeas 
Corpus  Act,  do  specially,  and  by  name,  forbid  the  judges  of  the 
Court  of  King  s  Bench  to  proceed  to  the  l»ailment  of  the  pri- 
soner, if  it  shall  appear  to  them  that  he  is  committed  for  such 
matters  or  offences /or  the  which  by  the  law  the  prisoner  is  not 
bailable^  have  they  any  meaning,  or  have  they  none  at  all  ? 
Let  it  be  remembered  that  Junius  never  pretends  to  be  a  bet- 
ter lawyer  than  Lord  Mansfield.  On  the  contrary,  he  takes 
every  opportunity  to  acknowledge  the  superior  learning  and 
abilities  of  that  wicked  judge ;  and  in  the  present  instance 
particularly  insists,  not  that  he  was  ignorant  of  the  law,  but 
that  he  sinned  against  his  own  certain  knowledge  and  convic- 
tion. 

ANTI.BBLIAL\ 


LETTER  CVII 

VETERAN  TO  LORD   BARRINGTON,   NO.   It. 

Mt  Lord,  February  17, 1772. 

In  my  last  letter  I  only  meant  to  be  jocular.  An  essay  so 
replete  with  good  humour  could  not  possibly  give  offence.  You 
are  no  enemy  to  a  jest,  or  at  least  you  would  be  thought  callous 
to  reproach.    You  profess  a  most  stoical  indifference  about  the 

*  The  points  in  this  explanatory  letter  are  adnumbly  pat — ^neatly,  forcibly, 
and  unequivocally.  It  is  a  dexterons  effort  of  Junius  to  escape  from  the  fidse 
position  into  which  he  had  fallen  in  denying  the  power  of  the  Chief  Justice 
to  bail  Kyre.  I  suspect  Anti-Belial  has  escaped  the  notice  of  Lord  Campbell; 
and  1  doubt  whether  the  present  successor  of  Lord  Mansfield  would  find  it 
Muy  Vt  asswer  the  first  question  of  Junius  in  the  concluding  uragrapk. — Es^ 


VETKRAN   TO   LOBD  BARRINOTON,  NO.    fl.  897 

opinion  of  tlie  world,  and  above  all  things  make  it  yonr  boast 
that  jou  can  set  the  newspaper's  at  detiance.  No  man,  indeed, 
has  received  a  greater  share  of  correction  in  this  way,  or  pro- 
fited less  by  it,  than  your  Lordship.  But  we  know  you  better. 
You  have  one  defect  less  than  you  pretend  to.  You  are  not 
insensible  of  the  scorn  and  hatred  of  the  world,  though  you 
take  no  care  to  avoid  it.  When  the  bloody  Barrington,  that 
silken  ^xwning  courtier  at  St.  James's — that  stern  and  inso- 
lent minister  at  the  War  Ofl&ce — is  pointed  out  to  nniYersal 
contempt  and  detestation,  you  smile  indeed,  but  the  last  ago- 
nies of  the  hysteric  passion  are  painted  in  your  countenance. 
Your  cheek  betrays  what  passes  within  you,  and  your  whole 
frame  is  in  convulsions.  I  now  mean  to  be  serious  with  you, 
but  not  to  waste  my  time  in  proving  that  you  are  an  enemy  to 
the  laws  and  liberties  of  this  country.  The  very  name  of  Bar- 
rington implies  everything  that  is  mean,  cruel,  false,  and  con- 
temptible. The  Duke  of  Newcastle's  livery  was  the  first  habit 
you  put  on.  What  an  indefatigable  courtier  at  his  levee! 
What  an  assiduous  parasite  at  his  table !  Was  there  a  dirty 
job  to  be, performed — away  went  Barrington,  Was  a  message 
tx)  be  carried — Who  waits  there  f  My  Lord  Barrington,  After 
ruining  that  brave  and  worthy  man,  General  Fowke  *,  under 
the  auspices  of  the  Duke  of  Newcastle,  who  saved  you  from 
destruction,  you  deserted  to  Mr.  Pitt  the  moment  he  came 
into  power.  Before  the  late  king  s  death  you  secured  a  footing 
at  Carlton  House ;  and  were  prepared  to  abandon  your  last 
patron  the  moment  Lord  Bute  assumed  the  reins  of  goyem- 
ment.  From  Lord  Bute  to  Mr.  Grenville  there  was  an  easy 
transfer  of  your  affections.  You  are  the  common  friend  of  all 
ministers,  but  it  is  not  in  your  policy  to  engage  in  overt  acts 
of  hostility  against  those  who  may,  perhaps,  be  next  in  turn  to 
patronise  Lord  Barrington.  My  dear  Lord,  or  my  dear  Sir, 
are  titles  with  which  you  have  occasionally  addressed  every  man 

*  General  Fowke,  who  was  then  stationed  at  Qibraltar,  received  instnic 
tlons  in  several  letters  from  Lord  Barrington,  shortly  after  his  appointmen 
lo  be  Secretary  at  War,  in  1760,  under  th,e  Duke  of  Newcastle's  administra 
tion,  which  produced  measures  that  had  nearly  effected  the  loss  of  that 
important  post     Lord  Barrington,  on  perceiving  the  blmader  he  had  com- 
mitted, most  ungenerously  prevailed  on  General  Fowke  to  take  the  chief 
blame  upon  himself,  under  a  promise  of  indemnification.     The  lesult  wai^ 
that  Fowke  was  ruined,  and  Barrington  liberated. 


89B         MISOELLANEOUS   LETTERS  ASCRIBFD   TO  JCTNIDS. 

who  ever  had  an  office,  or  the  chance  of  an  office,  in  this  king- 
dom. Even  the  proscribed  John  Wilkes,  the  moment  he  was 
sheriff,  had  a  claim  upon  your  politeness.  Your  character  was 
a  little  battered  by  the  frequency  of  your  political  amours,  when 
Lord  Rockingham  took  you  into  keeping.  While  you  existed 
by  his  protection,  you  intrigued  with  the  Duke  of  Grafton. 
Another  change  succeeded.  Your  mind  was  open  to  new  lights, 
and,  without  a  dotibt.  Lord  Chatham  was  the  only  man  in  the 
kingdom  fix  to  govern  a  great  empire.  Still,  however,  your 
opinions  of  men  and  things  were  not  perfectly  settled.  When 
the  Duke  of  Grafton  took  the  lead,  the  pliant  Barrington,  of 
course,  saw  things  in  a  different  point  of  view.  There  is  no- 
thing in  your  attachments  that  savours  of  obstinacy.  When 
his  Grace  resigned,  you  soon  discovered  that  to  establish  go- 
vernment upon  a  solid  footing,  the  minister*s  presence  was 
indispensable  in  the  House  of  Commons.  Lord  North  was 
then  the  man  after  your  Lordship's  own  heart.  In  your  ideas 
the  First  Lord  of  the  Treasury  for  the  time  being  is  always 
perfect— 5ut  every  change  is  for  the  better.  With  all  your 
professions  of  attachment  to  this  temporary  minister,  I  tell 
him,  and  I  tell  the  public,  that  at  this  very  hour  you  are  cabal- 
ling with  the  Duke  of  Grafton  and  the  Bedfords  to  obtain  the 
recall  of  Lord  Townshend,  and  to  drive  Lord  North  from  the 
Treasury.  But  they  all  know  you.  In  the  inventory  of  the 
discarded  minister's  effects,  Lord  Barrington  is  always  set 
down  as  a  fixture. 

By  garbling  and  new  modelling  the  War  Office,  you  think 
you  have  reduced  the  army  to  subjection.  Walk  in,  gentlemen  t 
Business  done  by  Chamier  and  Co,  To  make  your  office  com- 
plete, you  want  nothing  now  but  a  paper  lanthom  at  the  door, 
and  the  scheme  of  a  lottery  pasted  upon  the  window.  With 
all  your  folly  and  obstinacy,  I  am  at  a  loss  to  conceive  what 
countenance  you  assumed  when  you  told  your  royal  master  that 
you  had  taken  a  little  Frenchified  broker  from  'Change  Alley, 
to  intrust  with  the  management  of  all  the  affairs  of  his  army. 
Did  the  following  dialogue  leave  no  impression  upon  your  dis- 
ordered imagination  ? — ^Tou  know  where  it  passed. 

K,  Pray,  my  Lord,  whom  have  you  appointed  to  succeed 
Mr.  D'Oyly? 

B.  Please  your  M — ,  I  believe  I  have  made  a  choice  that 
will  be  highly  acceptable  to  the  public  and  to  tl  e  army. 


TETEBAN  TO   LOBD   BABBINGTON.   XO.    HT.  399 

K.    Who  is  it? 

B.  Sire,  it  s  appelle  Ragosin.  Bom  and  educated  in  'Change 
Alley,  he  glories  in  the  name  of  broker ;  and,  to  say  nothing 
of  Lord  Sandwich's  friendship,  I  can  assure  your  M-^  he  hasi 
always  kept  the  best  company  at  Jonathan  s. 

K,  My  Lord,  I  never  interfere  in  these  matters ;  but  I 
cannot  help  telling  your  Lordship,  that  you  might  have  con* 
Bulted  my  honour  and  the  credit  of  my  army  a  little  better. 
Your  appointment  of  so  mean  a  person,  though  he  may  be  a 
very  honest  man  in  the  mystery  he  was  bred  to,  casts  a  reflec- 
tion upon  me,  and  is  an  insult  to  the  army.  At  all  events,  I 
desire  it  may  be  understood,  that  I  have  no  concern  in  this 
ill-judged,  indecent  measure,  and  that  I  do  not  approve  of  it 

I  suppose,  my  Lord,  you  liiought  this  conversation  might  be 

wink  upon  the  public.     It  does  honour  to  his  Migesty,  and 

therefore  you  concealed  it.    In  my  next  I  propose  to  show 

what  a  fiedthful  friend  you  have  been  to  the  army,  par^cularly 

to  old  worn-out  officers. 

YBTBBAN. 


LETTER  CVIII. 


YSTEBIN  TO  LOBD  BABBTNOTON,   NO.  IH. 

Mt  Lord,  February  27, 1772. 

The  army  now,  according  to  your  own  account  of  the  matter, 
is  under  a  very  creditable  sort  of  direction.  If  we  may  ^ely 
upon  the  Secretary  at  War's  opinion,  solemnly  and  de- 
liberately expressed  before  the  House  of  Commons,  there  is 
not  a  single  man  in  the  profession  who  is  in  any  shape 
qualified  for  commander-in-chief,  at  least  none  whom  you 
would  think  it  safe  to  recommend  to  his  Majesty.  If  your 
judgment  upon  this  subject  had  been  better  founded  than  it 
is,  I  do  not  understand  Uiat  a  Secretary  at  War  has  any  right 
to  pass  so  disgraceful  and  precipitate  a  sentence  upon  so 
many  of  his  superiors.  Believe  me,  my  good  Lord,  there  is 
not  one  of  thode  officers  whom  you  dared  to  stigmatize  in  that 
infamous  manner  who  is  not  qualified  to  be  your  master  in  the 
art  militaiy,  notwithstanding  all  the  experience  you  got  in  St 


400  MISCELLAMEOUS  LETTEBS  ASCRIBED  TO  JUNIUS 

George's  Fields*,  when  jou  urged  and  exhorted  the  guards  to 
imbrvie  their  hands  in  the  blood  of  their  fellow-subjects. 
While  that  bloody  scene  was  acting,  where  was  the  gentle 
Harrington?  Was  he  sighing  at  the  feet  of  antiquated  beauty? 
Was  he  dreaming  over  the  loo-table,  or  was  he  more  innocendy 
employed  in  combing  her  Ladyship's  lap  dog?  But,  my  Lord, 
when  you  paid  that  pretty  compliment  to  the  body  of  general 
officers,  had  you  no  particular  apologies  to  make  to  General 
Conway,  to  Lord  Albemarle,  or  to  Sir  Jefifery  Amherst  ?  Did 
General  Harvey  deserve  nothing  better  of  you  than  a  ridiculous 
nickname,  which,  like  Lord  Mansfield's  secret,  he  must  carry 
with  him  to  his  grave  ?  In  liou  of  a  commander-in-chief,  you 
have  advised  the  King  to  put  the  army  into  commission.  A 
graduate  in  physiCj  an  old  woman,  and  a  broker  from  'Change 
Alley.  The  doctor  prescribes,  the  old  gentlewoman  ad- 
ministers, and  little  Syringe^  the  apothecary,  stands  by  the 
glisterpipe.  This,  you  tell  the  King,  is  making  himself  com- 
mander-m-chief,  and  the  surest  way  to  preserve  the  affections 
of  the  army.  It  may  be  so,  my  Lord,  but  I  see  "no  right  you 
had  to  give  the  nickname  of  Doctor  Radcliffe  to  so  brave  a 
man  as  General  Harvey.  Though  his  natural  sweetness  of 
temper  may  induce  him  to  pass  it  by,  it  must  always  be  mor- 
tifying to  a  brave  adjutant-general,  when  he  marches  into  St. 
James's  Coffee  House,  to  hear  the  ensigns  of  the  guards 
whisper  to  one  another,  here  cornea  the  Doctor ;  or  when  he 
marches  out,  there  goes  the  Doctor.  I  dare  say  he  has  furnished 
work  enough  for  the  surgeons,  but,  until  you  so  politely 
pointed  it  out,  I  cannot  say  I  ever  saw  anything  medical  in 
his  appearance. 

After  treating  the  most  powerful  people  in  the  army  with 
80  much  unprovoked  insolence,  it  is  not  to  be  supposed  that 
field  officers,  captains,  and  subalterns  have  any  chance  of 
common  justice  at  your  hands.  Bu^  that  matter  shall  be  the 
%he  subject  of  another  letter,  and  every  letter  shall  be  con 
eluded  with  a  conversation  piece.  The  following  dialogue  it 
^ot  imaginary : — 

SCENE — WAR  OFFICE. 

Enter  Barrington,  meeting  Waddlewell. 
B,    My  dear  friend,  you  look  charmingly  this  morning. 

*  Allvdiiif  to  the  lu^ntiion  of  the  riati^  lor  which  lee  onUe^  p.  18Sr 


▼BTSBAN  TO  LOBD  BABBTVOTOIf,   NO.   lU.  401 

W,  My  dearest  Lord— the  sight  of  your  Lordship— 
Here  they  embrace^  WaddUweWs  thoughts  being  too  big  for  ut- 
terance. 

B.    Whon  did  you  see  my  Pylades,  our  dear  Brad^haw  ? 

W.  Ay,  my  Lord,  there  is  a  friend  indeed— firmness  with 
out  resistance,  sincerity  without  contradiction,  and  the  milky 
way  painted  in  his  countenance.  If  I  could  ever  reconcile 
my  mind  to  the  distracting  prospect  of  losing  your  Lordship, 
where  else  should  we  look  for  a  successor  1  But  that  event, 
I  hope,  is  at  a  great  distance.  Late,  very  late,  Oh  may  he 
rule  us! 

B.  Ay,  my  dearest  Waddlewell,  but  we  are  sadly  abused, 
notwithstanding  all  our  virtues. 

W,  Merit,  my  dear  Lord,  merit  will  for  ever  excite  enmity. 
I  found  it  so  in  the  alley.  I  never  made  a  lucky  hit  in  my 
life,  that  it  did  not  set  all  Jonathan's  in  an  uproar.  If  an 
idea  succeeded,  my  best  friends  turned  against  me.  Judas  and 
Levi,  Moses  and  Issachar— people  with  whom  I  have  been 
connected  by  the  tenderest  ties — could  not  endure  the  sight 
of  my  prosperity.  The  ten  tribes  of  Israel  united  to  destroy 
me,  and  for  two  years  together  were  malicious  enough  to  call 
me  the  lucky  little  Benjamin.  Friendship,  among  the  best  of 
men,  is  litde  better  than  a  name. 

B.  Why,  my  dear  deputy,  it  is  not  that  I  regard  the  con- 
tempt and  hatred  of  all  mankind.—-!  never  knew  it  otherwise. 
No  man's  patience  has  been  better  exercised.  But  what  if 
the  King  should  hear  of  it? 

W.    Ay,  there  *s  the  rub ! 

B.  If  the  best  of  princes,  who  pretends  to  be  his  own 
commander-in-chief,  should  hear  that  the  name  of  Barrington 
is  opprobrious  in  the  army — that  even  he  himself  is  not 
spared  for  supporting  me — 

W.  (weeping) — Oh,  fatal  day!— -Compared  with  this,  what 
is  a  riscounter!  Alas,  my  dearest  Lord,  you  have  unmanned 
your  deputy.  I  feel  myself  already  at  ten  per  cent,  discount, 
and  never  shall  be  at  par  again. 

B*     Something  must  be  done.    Let  us  consider. 

W.    Ay,  my  dear  Lord,  for  heaven's  sake  let  us  speculata 

Exeunt  disputing  about  precedence. 

VETERAN. 

VOL.  n.  D  D 


402  aUBCELLlKEOUS   LETTERS  ASCBIBED   TO  JfTMlUB. 


LETTF.R  CIX. 

VETERAN  TO  LORD  HARRINGTON,  NO.  IV. 

Mt  Lord,  March  10, 1772. 

I  AM  at  a  loss  for  words  to  express  my  acknowledgment  of  tb6 
signal  honour  you  have  done  me.  One  of  the  principal  pur- 
poses of  the$e  addresses  was  to  engage  you  in  a  regular  publio 
correspondence.  You  very  justly  thought  it  unnecessary  to 
sign  your  rtame  to  this  last  elegant  performance.  Novalis* 
answers  as  well  as  Barrington.  We  know  you  by  your  style. 
This  is  not  the  first  of  your  epistles  that  has  been  submitted 
to  the  criticism  of  the  public.  While  yet,  like  poor  Waddle- 
well,  you  were  young  in  ofifice,  your  letters  to  General  Fowke 
were  considered  as  the  standard  of  perepicuityf.  You  are 
now  very  old  in  office,  and  continue  to  write  exactly  as  you 
did  in  your  infancy.  I  do  not  wonder  that  the  extremes  of 
your  capacity  should  meet  in  the  same  point,  but  I  should  be 
glad  to  know  at  what  period  you  reckoned  yourself  in  th« 
prime  and  vigour  of  your  official  understanding.  Was  it  when 
you  signified  to  the  third  regiment  of  guards  his  Majesty's 
gratitude  and  your  own  for  their  alacrity  in  butchering  their 
innocent  fellow-subjects  in  St.  George's  Fields  J?  Was  it 
when  you  informed  the  House  of  Commons  that  you  and  the 
doctor  were  equivalent  to  a  commander-in-chief?  Or  when 
you  declared  that  there  was  not  a  man  in  the  army  fit 
to  be  trusted  with  the  command  of  it  ?  Or  when  you  estab- 
lished that  wise  and  humane  regulation,  that  no  officer,  let  his 
age  and  infirmities  be  ever  so  great,  and  his  services  ever  89 
distinguished,  should  be  sufiEered  to  sell  out  unless  he  had 
bought  all  his  former  commissions  ?  Or,  in  short,  was  it  when 
you  dived  into  Jonathan's  for  a  deputy,  and  plucked  up 
WaddleweU  by  the  locks  ?  When  you  answer  these  questions, 
I  shall  be  ready  to  meet  your  Lordship  upon  that  ground  on 

*  The  name  sabscribed  by  a  writer  wbo  nndertook  the  defenee  of  LoM 
Barrington^  and  whom  onr  author,  according  to  his  usual  custom,  hen  id» 
tifiei  wiUi  the  noble  EarL 

f  See  note  to  Letter  107,  atUe,  p.  397. 

t  See  note  to  Miscellaneous  Letter,  No.  24,  ante,  p.  182,  in  wUch  Ai 
letter  here  alluded  to  is  inserted. 


TEr£RA.N   TO   T.ORD   BARRINGTON,   NO.    IT.  403 

which  you  think  you  stand  the  firmest.  lu  the  meantime, 
give  me  leave  to  say  a  few  words  to  Novalis. 

You  are  pleased  to  observe  that  my  three  first  letters  are 
filled  with  low  scurrility  upon  hackneyed  topics  collected  from 
the  newspapers.  Have  a  little  patience,  my  dear  Lord ;  I 
shall  soon  come  to  closer  quarters  with  you.  As  for  those 
dialogues,  which  you  are  pleased  to  say  have  neither  wit  nor 
humour  in  them,  I  can  only  observe  that  there  are  many 
scenes  which  pass  off  tolerably  well  upon  the  stage,  and  yet 
will  not  bear  the  examination  of  the  closet.  You  and  Wadile- 
well  are  excellent  performers.  Between  a  courtier  and  a 
broker  words  are  the  smallest  part  of  the  conversation ;  shrugs 
and  smiles,  bows  and  grimaces,  the  condescension  of  St. 
Jameses,  and  the  pliant  politeness  of  'Change  Alley,  stand  in 
the  place  of  repartee,  and  fill  up  the  scene. 

You  intimate,  without  daring  directly  to  assert,  that  you  did 
not  fix  that  odious  stigma  upon  the  body  of  general  officers. 
Have  you  forgot  the  time  when  you  attempted  the  same  eva- 
sion in  the  House  of  Commons,  and  forced  General  Howard 
to  rise  and  say  he  was  ashamed  of  you  ?  These  mean,  dirty, 
pitiful  tricks  are  fitter  for  Jonathan's  than  the  War  Office. 

You  have  rfwre  eoapenence  than  any  of  your  clerks^  and  your 
great  abilities  are  acknowledged  on  all  sides.  As  for  your  ex- 
perience, we  all  know  how  much  your  conduct  has  been  im- 
proved by  it.  But  pray  who  informed  you  of  this  universal 
acknowledgment  of  your  abilities?  The  sycophants  whose 
company  you  delight  in  are  likely  enough  to  fill  you  with  these 
flattering  ideas.  But  if  you  were  wise  enough  to  consult  the 
good  opinion  of  the  world,  you  would  not  be  so  eager  to 
establish  the  credit  of  your  understanding.  The  moment  you 
arrive  at  the  character  of  a  man  of  sense  you  are  undone. 
You  must  then  relinquish  the  only  tolerable  excuse  that  can 
be  made  for  your  conduct.  It  is  really  unkind  of  you  to  dis- 
tress the  few  friends  you  have  left. 

To  your  Lordship's  zeal  to  discover  and  patronise  latent 
merit,  the  public  is  indebted  for  the  services  of  Mr.  Bradshaw. 
Pray,  my  Lord,  will  you  be  so  good  as  to  explain  to  us,  of  what 
nature  were  those  services  which  he  first  rendered  to  your 
Lordship  ?  Was  he  winged  like  a  messenger,  or  stationary 
like  a  sentinel  ? 

D  D  3 


404  MJSGELLAKE0U8   IJSTTEBS  ASCRIBED  TO  JUNIUS. 

"  Like  Maia*8  son  he  stood 
And  shook  his  plumes ;" 

videlicet,  at  the  door  of  Lady n's  cabinet     His  ze&l  in 

the  execution  of  this  honourable  office  promoted  him  to  an- 
other door,  where  he  also  stands  sentry, 

*'  Yir^iqiie  lerem  coercet 
Aured  turbam.'* 

That  he  has  ably  served  the  state,  may  be  collected  from  the 
public  acknowledgments  the  ministry  have  made  him.  Fifteen 
hundred  pounds  a  year,  well  secured  to  himself  and  his  family, 
will  acnuit  the  King  of  any  ingratitude  to  Mr.  Bradshaw.  It 
is  by  mere  accident  that  Sir  Edward  Uawke  and  Sir  JeHerj 
Amherst  are  no  better  provided  for. 

But  we  are  indebted  to  your  Lordship  for  another  discovery 
of  merit  equally  latent  with  Mr.  Bradshaw*s.  You  have  a 
phoenix  of  a  deputy,  though  yet  he  is  but  young  in  his  nest 
He  has  hardly  had  time  to  clear  his  wings  from  the  ashes  that 
gave  him  birth.  This,  too,  was  your  Lordship*s  apolbgy  for 
ruining  General  Fowke.  You  gave  it  in  evidence  that  you 
had  been  but  four  months  in  office,  and  now  you  tell  us  ^t 
your  deputy  also  is  in  the  same  unfledged  state  of  noviciate; 
though  for  abilities  and  knowledge  of  the  world,  neither  Jew 
nor  GentHe  can  come  up  to  him !  For  shame,  my  Lord  Bar- 
rington ;  send  this  whiffling  broker  back  to  the  mystery  he  was 
bred  in.  Though  an  infant  in  the  War  Office,  the  tnan  is  too 
old  to  learn  a  new  trade.  At  this  very  moment  they  are  call- 
ing out  for  him  at  the  bar  of  Jonathan*s — Shammy!  Shammy! 
Shammy!  The  house  of  Isrciel  are  waiting  to  settle  their 
last  account  with  him.  During  his  absence  things  may  take 
a  desperate  turn  in  the  alley,  and  you  never  may  be  able  to 
make  up  to  the  man  what  he  has  lost  in  half-crowns  and  six- 
pences already. 

YBTSKAK. 


VETEBAN  TO  THE  PUBLIC  ADVEBTISEB.  40li 


LETTER  ex. 

VETERAN  TO  THE  PUBLIC  ADVEBTISER. 

Sir,         ^  March  23,  1772. 

I  DESIRE  you  will  inform  the  public  that  the  worthy  Lord 
Barrington,  not  contented  with  having  driven  Mr.  D'Oyly  out 
of  the  War  Office,  has  at  last  contrived  to  expel  Mr.  Francis*. 
His  Lordship  will  never  rest  till  he  has  cleared  his  office  of 
eveiy  gentleman  who  can  either  be  serviceable  to  the  public 
or  whose  honour  and  integrity  are  a  check  upon  his  own  dark 
proceedings.  Men  who  do  their  duty  with  credit  and  ability 
are  not  proper  instruments  for  Lord  Barrington  to  work  with. 
He  must  have  a  broker  from  'Change  Alley  for  his  deputy, 
and  some  raw,  ignorant  boy  for  his  first  clerk.  I  think  the 
public  have  a  right  to  call  upon  Mr.  D'Oyly  and  Mr.  Francis 
to  declare  their  reasons  for  quitting  the  War  Office.  Men 
of  their  unblemished  character  do  not  resign  lucrative  employ- 
ments without  some  sufficient  reasons.  The  conduct  of  these 
gentlemen  has  always  been  approved  of,  and  I  know  that  they 
stand  as  well  in  the  esteem  of  the  army  as  any  persons  in 
their  station  ever  did.  What  then  can  be  the  cause  that  the 
public  and  the  army  should  be  deprived  of  their  service? 
There  must  certainly  be  something  about  Lord  Bamngton 
which  every  honest  man  dreads  and  detests.  Or  is  it  that 
they  cannot  be  brought  to  connive  at  his  jobs  and  underhand 
dealings?  They  have  too  much  honour,  I  suppose,  to  do 
some  certain  business  hy  commission.  They  have  not  been 
educated  in  the  conversation  of  Jews  and  pjamblers ;  they  have 
had  no  experience  at  Jonathan's ;  they  know  nothing  of  the 
stocks ;  and  therefore  Lord  Barrington  drives  them  out  of  the 
»Var  Office.  The  army  indeed  is  come  to  a  fine  pass,  with  a 
gambling  broker  at  the  head  of  it !  What  signifies  ability,  or 
integrity,  or  practice,  or  experience  in  business  ?  Lord  Bar- 
rington feels  himself  uneasy  while  men  with  such  qualifica- 
tions are  about  him.  He  wants  nothing  in  his  office  but 
ignorance,  impudence,  pertness,  and  servility.     Of  those  com- 

•  Fmncis,  afterwards  Sir  Philip,  and  D'Oyly,  were  chiel  clerks  in  the 
War  Office.  The  displacement  of  D'Oyly  to  make  room  f*r  Chamier  bat 
been  already  noticed  in  Letter  106. 


406  MISCELLANEOUS    LETTERS  ASCRIBED  TO  JUXIUS. 

modities  he  has  laid  in  a  plentiful  stock,  that  ought  to  last 
him  as  long  as  he  is  Secretary  at  War.  Again,  I  wish  that 
Mr.  Francis  and  Mr.  D'Oyly  would  give  the  public  some  ao- 
nount  of  what  is  going  forward  in  the  War  Office.  I  think 
these  events  so  remarkable,  that  some  notice  ought  to  be 
taken  of  them  in  the  House  of  Commons.  When  the  public 
loses  the  service  of  two  able  and  honest  servants,  it  is  but 
reasonable  that  the  wretch  who  drives  such  men  out  of  a  pub- 
lic office  should  be  compelled  to  give  some  account  of  himself 

and  his  proceedings. 

VETERAN. 


LETTER  CXT. 

SCOTUS   TO   LORD    BABRINGTON  *. 

My  Lord,  May  4, 1772. 

I  AM  a  Scotchman,  and  can  assure  your  Lordship  that  I  do 
not  esteem  my  country,  or  the  natives  of  it,  the  less  because 
we  are  not  so  happy  as  to  be  honoured  with  Lord  Barrington  s 
favourable  opinion.  From  a  pamphlet,  which  lately  fell  in 
niy  way,  I  perceive  that  there  is  something  in  the  temper  of 
the  Scots  that  does  not  suit  the  manly,  sterling  virtue  which 
distinguishes  your  own  worthy  character.  We  are  too  inso- 
lent to  those  beneath  us,  and  too  obsequious  to  our  superiors : 
and  with  such  a  disposition  must  never  hope  to  find  favour 
with  Lord  Barrington  !  "  And  Cockburne,  like  most  of  his 
counti-ymen^  is  as  abject  to  those  above  him  as  he  is  insolent 
to  thosp.  below  him."  These  are  your  words,  given  under 
your  baud,  as  the  solemn,  deliberate  opinion  of  his  Majesty's 
Secretary  at  War.  Such  a  censure,  coming  from  a  man  of 
honour,  good  sense,  or  integrity,  might,  perhaps,  have  some 
weight  with  the  thoughtless  or  uncandid.  But  when  it  comes 
from  a  man  whose  whole  life  has  been  employed  in  acting  the 
part  of  a  false,  cringing,  fawning,  time-serving  courtier — from 
a  man  who  never  had  a  different  opiuion  from  the  minister  for 
the  time  being,  and  who  has  always  contrived  to  keep  some  lu- 
crative place  or  other  under  twenty  different  administrations, 

•  The  ori^nal  copy  of  this  letter  is  st*  J  in  the  hands  of  Mr.  H.  D.  Wjod 
Call,  the  prii  ter  of  the  present  edition. 


TO  THE  L0BD8  OF  THB  ADMIRALTY.  40? 

•-I  am  not  so  much  offended  at  the  reproach  itself,  which  you 
have  thought  proper  to  throw  upon  the  Scots,  as  I  am  shocked 
at  the  unparalleled  impudence  of  applying  your  own  indi- 
vidual character  to  a  whole  nation.  It  seems  my  countrymen 
are  abject  to  those  above  them.  Pray,  my  good  Lord,  by  what 
system  of  conduct  have  you  recommended  yourself  to  every 
succeeding  minister  for  these  last  twenty  years  ?  Was  it  by 
maintaining  your  opinion  upon  all  occasions,  with  a  blunt. 
firm  integrity,  or  w£is  it  by  the  basest  and  vilest  servility  to 
every  creature  that  had  power  to  do  you  either  good  or  evil  ? 
But  we  are  insolent  to  those  below  us.  Indeed,  my  Lord,  you 
paint  from  your  own  heart.  There  is  courage  at  least  in  our 
composition.  It  is  the  coward  who  fawns  upon  those  above 
him.  It  is  the  coward  that  is  insolent,  wherever  he  dares 
be  so.  You  have  had  some  lessons  which  have  made  you  more 
3autious  than  you  used  to  be.  You  have  reason  to  remember 
that  modest  humble  merit  will  not  always  bear  to  be  insulted 
by  an  upstart  in  office.  For  the  future,  my  little  Lord,  be  more 
sparing  of  your  reflections  upon  the  Scots.  We  pay  no  regard 
to  the  calumny  of  anonymous  writers,  and  despise  the  malig- 
nity of  John  Wilkes.  But  when  a  man,  so  high  in  office  as 
you  are,  pretends  to  give  an  odious  character  of  a  whole  nation, 
and  sets  his  name  to  it,  we  should  deserve  the  reproach,  if  we 
did  not  resent  it.  You  are  so  detested  and  despised  by  all 
parties  (because  all  parties  know  you),  that  England,  Scotland, 
and  Ireland  have  but  one  wish  concerning  you,  and  tbat  is, 
that  as  you  have  shown  yourself  a  fawning  traitor  to  every 
party  and  person  with  which  you  ever  were  comvvted,  so  all 
paities  may  unite  in  loading  you  with  infamy  and  contempt. 

SCOTUS*. 


LETTER  CXII. 

TO  THE  LORDS  OF  THE  ADMIBALTY. 

Mt  Lobdb,  May  8, 1772. 

Having  seen  in  last  Saturday's  paper  that  Mr.  Bradshaw  was 
appointed  to  be  a  member  of  your  board,  give  me  leave  to  con- 

*  It  is  almost  needless  to  add  that  Scotus  is  Junius*    His  letter  is  referred 
to  in  a  private  note,  ante,  p.  59. — Bp. 


40 B         UlflCELLANEOUS  LETTERS  ASCBIBED  TO  JUNIUS. 

gratulate  jour  Lordships  on  the  event,  as  a  person  of  Mr. 
Brad  shawls  birth  and  talents  may  be  of  the  greatest  use  to 
you  on  many  occasions,  besides  adding  infinitely  more  weight 
and  dignity  to  the  board ;  I  was  therefore  a  good  deal  sur- 
prised at  the  simple  manner  in  which  his  weU-merited  promo 
tion  was  announced  to  the  public,  but  must  attribute  it  eithei 
to  hk  oum  modesty,  or  the  printer*s  ignorance :  but,  whatevei 
be  the  cause  I  think  it  necessary  to  acquaint  you,  his  brother 
Lords,  with  a  little  of  his  history. 

It  is  needless  to  trouble  your  Lordships  with  an  account  of 
liis  birth  or  education,  as  the  first  might  be  a  very  difficult 
ttisk,  and  the  latter  your  Lordships  may  see  has  not  been  neg- 
lected. His  first  appearance  in  the  great  world  was  as  one  of 
Lord  Barrington^s  domestics,  from  whence  he  moved  to  Ire 
land,  set  up  a  shop,  and  under  the  influence  of  a  happy  planet 
returned  to  England,  where,  by  means  of  his  uncommon  ad 
dress  in  administering  to  the  plemures  of  the  great,  he  was 
appointed  one  of  the  secretaries  to  the  Treasury,  which  office 
lie  held  during  the  Duke  of  Grafton *s  administration,  and  by 
exerting  his  happy  talents  between  his  Grace  and  the  cele- 
brated Nancy  Parsons,  he  so  far  ingratiated  himself  with  the 
Duke,  that  he  became  his  chief  confident,  and  was  privy  to 
the  whole  of  his  generous  treatment  of  that  young  lady,  and  of 
coui*8e  became  his  Grace's  hosom  friend ;  for  which  service  he 
first  received  a  pension  of  fifteen  hundred  pounds  a  year  for 
three  lives,  and,  that  not  being  sufficient,  is  now  made  one  oj 
yoH.  I  cannot  avoid  again  congratulating  you  on  the  acquisi- 
tion of  such  a  brother  member,  as  it  is  to  bo  hoped  he  will 
assist  any  of  your  Lordships  with  his  good  offices  u|)on  aiJ 
occasions. 

I  have  the  honour  to  be, 
My  Lords, 
Your  Lordships'  most  humble 

And  obedient  servant, 
Pall-Mall.  AETHUli  TELL-THUTH 


NEMESIS  TO  THE   TUBLIC  ADVEBTISER.  409 

LETTER  CXITI. 

VEMES18   TO  THE   PUBLIC   ADVEBTISEBt<. 

Sib,  May  12, 1772. 

I  AM  just  returned  from  a  visit  in  a  certain  part  of  Berkshire, 
near  which  I  found  Lord  Barrington  had  spent  his  Easter 
holidays.  His  Lordship,  I  presume,  went  into  the  country  to 
indulge  his  grief;  for- whatever  company  he  happened  to  be  in, 
ft  seems  his  discourse  turned  entirely  upon  the  hardship  and 
Jifficulty  of  his  situation.  The  impression  which  he  would  be 
glad  to  give  of  himself  is,  that  of  an  old  faithful  servant  of  the 
crown,  who  on  one  side  is  abused  and  vilified  for  his  great 
zeal  in  support  of  government,  and  at  the  same  time  gets  no 
thanks  or  reward  from  the  King  or  the  administration.  He  is 
modest  enough  to  affirm  in  all  companies,  that  his  services  are 
unrewarded;  that  he  bears  the  burthen;  that  other  people 
engross  the  profits ;  and  that  he  gets  nothing.  Those  who 
know  but  little  of  his  history  may,  perhaps,  be  inclined  to  pity 
him ;  but  he  and  I  have  been  old  acquaintance,  and,  consider- 
ing the  size  of  his  understanding,  I  believe  I  shall  be  able  to 
prove,  that  no  man  in  the  kingdom  ever  sold  himself  and  his 
services  to  better  advantage  than  Lord  Barrington.  Let  us 
take  a  short  review  of  him  from  his  political  birth. 

On  his  entrance  into  the  House  of  Commons  he  declared 
himself  a  patriot;  but  he  soon  found  means  to  dispose  of  his 
patriotism  for  a  seat  at  the  Admiralty-Board.  This  worthy 
man,  before  he  obtained  his  price,  was  as  deeply  engaged  in 
opposition  to  government  as  any  member  of  the  Fountain  Club, 
to  which  he  belonged.  He  then  thought  it  no  sin  to  run  down 
Sir  Robert  Wal pole,, though  now  he  has  altered  his  tone.  To 
oppose  the  measures  of  government,  however  dangerous  to  the 
constitution,  or  to  attack  the  persons  of  ministers,  however 
justly  odious  to  the  nation,  is  now  rank  faction,  in  the  opinion 
of  the  pliant  Lord  Barrington.  His  allegiance  follows  the  de- 
scent of  power ;  nor  has  he  ever  been  known  to  dispute  the 
validity  of  the  ministers  title,  as  long  as  he  continued  in  pos- 
session 

*  This  letter  wa§  advertised  under  the  title  of  Memoirs  of  Lord  Barring 
ion,  in  conpliance  with  the  li^uest  of  the  author.    See  private  note,  No.  62 


410  inSGELIAKROnS   LETTERS  ASCRIBED  TO  JUNIUS. 

His  Lordship  remained  at  the  Admiralty,  antil  long  servility 
and  a  studious  attaciiment  to  the  Duke  of  Newcastle  had  en- 
gaged his  Grace  to  recommend  him  for  Secretary  at  War. 
When  the  Duke  resigned,  in  the  year  1756,  he,  of  course, 
expected  that  Lord  Barrington  would  have  followed  him.  But 
his  Lordship's  gratitude  to  his  patron  was  not  quite  heavy 
enough  to  weigh  against  two  thousand  five  hundred  a  year. 
He  knew  the  value  of  his  place,  and  kept  it  hy  making  the 
same  professions  to  Mr.  Pitt  and  Lord  Temple  by  which  lie 
had  deceived  the  Duke  of  Newcastle.  Before  the  late  King's 
death  he  had  taken  early  measures  to  secure  an  interest  at 
Carlton  House ;  and  when  his  present  Majesty  could  no  longer 
bear  him  as  Secretary  at  War,  he  found  means  to  ingratiate 
himself  so  far  with  Lord  Bute,  that  for  some  time  he  was  suf- 
fered to  be  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer ;  and  when  that  post 
appeared  to  be  not  tenable,  he  still  had  art  and  contrivance 
enough  to  secure  himself  in  the  lucrative  ofifice  of  Treasurer  of 
the  Navy.  In  176*2  he  was  the  most  humble  servant  of  Mr. 
Fox.  In  1763  and  1764  he  was  no  enemy  to  Mr.  Grenville 
In  1765  he  gave  himself  back,  body  and  soul,  to  the  late  Duke 
of  Cumberland  and  Lord  Rockiiigham.  The  last  manoeuvre 
restored  him  to  the  War  Office,  where  he  has  continued  ever 
since,  with  equal  fidelity  to  Mr.  Pitt,  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  and 
Lord  North  ;  and  now  he  modestly  tells  the  world  that  he  gets 
nothing  by  his  services. 

Besides  the  singular  good  fortune  of  never  being  himself  a 
moment  out  of  place,  he  has  had  extraordinary  success  iu  pro- 
viding for  every  branch  of  his  family.  One  brother  was  a 
general  officer,  with  a  regiment  and  chief  command  at  Guadii- 
loupe.  A  second  is  high  in  the  navy,  with  a  regiment  of 
marines.  A  third  is  a  judge,  and  the  fourth  is  a  bishop.  Yet 
this  is  the  man  who  complains  that  he  gets  nothing.  At  the 
same  time  his  parliamentary  interest  is  so  inconsiderable  that, 
ever  since  his  canting  hypocrisy  and  pretended  attachment  to 
the  dissenters  was  discovered  at  Berwick,  he  has  been  obliged 
to  the  influence  of  government  for  a  seat  in  the  House  of 
Commons,  which  he  holds  without  its  costing  him  a  shilling. 

Having  given  you  a  short  account  of  the  emoluments  he  has 
receivfed  from  government,  I  should  be  very  glad  to  see  a^ 
faithful  an  account  of  his  services.  Some  of  them  are  probably 
of  a  secret  nature,  of  which  we  can  form  no  judgment.     Hifi 


HEMESIS  TO   THE   PUBLIC   ADVERTISER.  41! 

ostensible  services,  in  the  pubHc  opinion  at  least,  liave  been 
considerably  overpaid.  At  his  very  outset,  the  blundering 
orders  he  sent  to  Gibraltar  might  have  occasioned  the  loss  of 
that  important  place.  When  the  fate  of  Gibraltar  was  at  stake, 
we  had  a  Secretary  at  War  who  could  neither  write  plain  Eng- 
lish nor  common  sense.  But  he  compensated  for  his  own 
blunder  by  ruining  the  worthy  General  Fowke,  whom  he  and 
a  certain  countess  (taking  a  base  advantage  of  the  unhappy 
man's  distress)  prevailed  upon  to  write  a  letter,  the  recollec- 
tion of  which  soon  after  broke  his  heart.  In  the  House  of 
Commons,  I  think,  the  noble  Lord  was  never  reckoned  an  able 
debater.  Poor  B-^ch,  for  many  years  was  his  nickname.  His 
time-serving  duplicity  is  now  so  well  known,  that  he  seldom 
speaks  without  being  laughed  at.  Sometimes  his  folly  exceeds 
all  bounds ;  as,  for  instance,  when  he  traduced  the  whole  body 
of  general  officers,  which,  I  presume,  they  will  not  readily  for- 
get. In  the  War  Office  he  has  made  it  his  study  to  oppress 
all  the  lower  part  of  the  army  by  a  multitude  of  foolish  regula- 
tions, by  which  he  hoped  to  gain  the  reputation  of  great  disci- 
pline and  economy,  but  which  have  only  served  to  make  him 
as  odious  to  the  military  as  he  is  to  every  other  rank  of  people 
in  the  kingdom.  With  respect  to  the  public  in  general,  I  pre- 
sume there  never  was  a  man  so  generally  or  so  deservedly 
detested  as  himself.  The  people  of  this  country  will  never 
forget  nor  forgive  the  inhuman  part  he  took  in  the  affair  of 
St.  George's  Fields.  Other  Secretaries  at  War  have  ordered 
out  troops  to  assist  the  civil  magistrate :  for  this  man  it  was 
reserved  to  give  it  under  his  hand,  that  he  rejoiced  and  exulted 
in  the  blood  of  his  fellow-subjects.  This  stroke  alone  would 
be  sufficient  to  determine  his  character.  Yet,  so  far  from  hav- 
ing done  the  King  any  service  by  his  officious  zeal  upon  this 
occasion,  I  am  convinced  that  no  one  circumstance  has  so  much 
contributed  to  throw  an  odium  upon  the  present  reign.  1  will 
not  suppose  it  possible  that  the  best  of  princes  could  be  pleased 
with  the  treason,  but  I  am  sure  he  has  reason  enough  to  hate 
the  traitor. 

Such  are  the  services  which,  in  his  Lordship's  opinion,  can 
never  be  sufficiently  rewarded.  He  complains  that  he  gets 
nothing,  although,  upon  a  moderate  computation,  he  has  not 
received  less  of  the  public  money  than  fifty- three  thousanl 
pounds,  viz. : 


41d  M.:SO£LLANEOnS   LETTERS  A8CR[BED   TO  JOmi^S. 

Ten  years  Lord  of  the  Admiralty £8,000 

Bigliteen  years  either  Secretary  at  War,  Chancellor  of  the 
Exchequer,  or  Treasurer  of  th%  Navy,  at  £2500  per 
aimom  #  .        .        .        •        •        ...        .  45,000 

£53,000 

It  is  not  possible  to  ascertain  what  further  advantages  he 
may  have  made  by  preference  in  subscriptions,  lottery  tickots, 
and  the  management  of  large  sums  lying  in  his  hands  as  Trea- 
surer of  the  Navy.  Mr.  Chamier,  if  he  thought  proper,  might 
give  us  some  tolerable  account  of  the  matter.  When  a  Secre- 
tary at  War  chooses  a  broker  for  his  deputy  it  is  not  difficult 
to  guess  what  kind  of  transactions  must  formerly  have  passed 
between  them.  I  don't  mean  to  question  the  honour  of  Mr. 
Chamier.  He  always  had  the  reputation  of  as  active  a  little 
fellow  as  any  in  Jonathan's.  But  putting  all  things  together, 
I  think  we  may  affirm  that,  when  Lord  Barrington  complains 
of  getting  nothing  from  government,  he  must  nave  conceived 
a  most  extravagant  idea  of  his  own  importance,  or  that  the 
inward  torture  he  suffers,  from  knowing  how  thoroughly  he  is 
hated  and  despised,  is  such  as  no  pecuniary  emoluments  can 
repay. 

NEMESIS*. 

*  William  Windham,  the  second  Viscount  Barrington,  whom,  under  this 
signature,  and  that  of  A  Veteran,  Junius  so  bitterly  persecuted,  had  served 
under  almost  every  variety  of  ministry  since  1746.  In  that  year  he  was  a 
Lord  of  the  Admiralty ;  in  1754  Master  of  the  Wardrobe ;  in  1755  Secre- 
tary at  War;  in  1757  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer;  in  1762  Treasurer  of 
the  Navy ;  and  in  1765  again  Secretary  at  War.  Lord  Barrington,  in  early 
life,  had  been  groom  of  the  bedchamber,  and  appears  to  have  been  an  easy, 
good-natured  man  of  the  world.  If  neither  his  virtues  nor  abilities  were  of  a 
high  order,  he  does  not  seem  to  have  overrated  himself  The  following  is  an 
extract  from  a  letter  dated  March  23,  1761,  addressed  to  his  friend  Sir 
Andrew  Mitchell,  long  the  British  resident  at  Berlin  : — 

"  Our  friend  Holdemesse  is  finally  in  harbour :  he  has  four  thousand  a-year 
for  life,  with  the  reveruionship  of  the  cinque  ports,  after  the  Duke  of  Dorset, 
which  he  likes  better  than  having  the  name  of  pensioner.  I  never  could 
myself  understand  the  difference  between  a  pension  and  a  sinecure  place. 
The  same  strange  fortune  which  made  me  Secretary  of  War  five  years  and  a 
half  ago,  has  made  me  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer ;  it  may  perhaps  at  last 
make  me  pope.  I  think  I  am  equally  fit  to  be  at  the  head  of  the  church 
as  of  the  exchequer.  My  reason  tells  me  it  would  have  been  more  proper  ta 
iiave  given  me  an  employment  of  less  consequence  when  I  was  removed  from 
the  War  Ofiice ;  but  no  man  knows  what  is  good  for  him.**  [Lord  Bairington 
died  in  1793,  in  his  seventy-sixth  year. — Ed.] 


APPENDIX. 


PRIVATE  LETTEBS  OF  JUNIUS  TO  LORD  CHATHAM. 

(^From  the  Chutham  Correspondence,    Edited  by  the  GrandBom 

of  the  Earl  of  Chatham,) 


JTJRIUS  TO  THE  EABL  OF  OHATHAH. 

"  [PrivcUe  and  tecret :  to  he  opened 
by  Lord  Ckathatn  only*) 
"Mt  Lord,  "London,  January  2, 1768. 

"  If  I  were  to  give  way  to  the  sentiments  of  respect  and  venera; 
tion  which  I  have  always  entertained  for  your  character,  or  to  the 
warmth  of  my  attachment  to  your  person,  I  should  write  a  longer 
letter  than  your  Lordship  would  have  time  or  inclination  to  read. 
But  the  information  whicn  I  am  going  to  lay  before  yovwilljl  hope, 
make  a  short  one  not  unworthy  your  attention.  I  have  an  oppor- 
tunity of  knowing  something,  and  you  may  depend  on  my  veracity 

^'During  your  absence  £om  administration,  it  is  well  known 
that  not  one  of  the  ministers  has  either  adhered  to  you  with  firm- 
ness, or  supported,  with  any  degree  of  steadiness,  those  principles 
on  which  you  engaged  in  the  King's  service.  From  being  their 
idol  at  first,  their  veneration  for  you  has  gradually  diminished, 
xmtil  at  last  they  have  absolutely  set  you  at  defiance. 

^  The  Chancellor,  on  whom  you  had  particular  reasonar  to  rely 
has  played  a  sort  of  fast  and  loose  game,  and  spoken  of  your  Lord 
ship  with  submission  or  indifference,  according  to  the  reports  he 
heard  of  your  health  ;  nor  has  he  altered  his  language  until  he 
found  you  were  really  returning  to  town. 

^  Many  circumstances  must  have  made  it  impossible  for  you  to 
depend  much  upon  Lord  Shelbume  or  his  friends  ;  besides  that,^ 
from  his  youth  and  want  of  knowledge,  he  was  hardly  of  weight, 
by  himself,  to  maintain  any  character  in  the  cabinet.  The  best  of 
him  is,  perhaps,  that  he  luui  not  acted  with  greater  insincerity  to 
your  Lordship  than  to  former  connections. 

^'  Lord  Northington*8  conduct  and  character  need  no  observation. 
A  singularity  of  manners,  added  to  a  pen>etual  affectation  of  dis- 
content, has  given  him  an  excuse  for  declining  all  share  in  the 
support  of  government,  and  at  last  conducted  him  to  his  great  ob- 
ject— A  very  high  title,  considering  the  species  of  his  merit,  and  an 
opulent  rrtreat.  Your  Lordship  is  best  able  to  judge  of  what  may 
be  expecied  from  tlds  nobleman's  gratitude. 

"  mi,  (jonway,  as  your  Lordship  knows  by  experience,  is  every- 
thing to  everybody,  as  long  as  by  such  conduct  he  can  maintain 
his  groimd.    Wo  have  seen  him  in  one  day  the  humble,  prostrate 


414  APPENDDL 

admirer  of  Lord  Chatham ;  the  dearest  friend  of  Rockingham  anj 
Bichmond ;  fully  sensible  of  the  weight  of  the  Puke  of  Bedford's 
party  ;  no  irreconcileable  enemy  to  Lord  Bute  ;  and,  at  the  same 
time,  very  ready  to  acknowledge  Mr.  Grenyille's  merit  as  a  finan- 
cier. Lord  Hertford  is  a  little  more  explicit  than  his  brother,  and 
has  taken  every  opportunity  of  treating  your  Lordship's  name  witk 
indignity. 

^  But  these  are  facts  of  little  moment.  The  most  considerable 
remains.  It  is  understood  by  the  public,  that  the  plan  of  intro- 
ducing the  Puke  of  Bedford's  friends  entirely  belongs  to  the  Duke 
of  Qrafton,  with  the  secret  concurrence,  perlxaps,  of  Lord  Bute,  but 
certainly  without  your  Lordship's  consent,  if  not  absolutely  against 
your  advice.  It  is  also  understood,  that  if  you  should  exert  your 
influence  with  the  King  to  overturn  this  plan,  the  Puke  of  Grafton 
will  be  strong  enough,  with  his  new  friends,  to  defeat  any  attempt 
of  that  kind ;  or  if  he  should  not,  your  Lordship  will  easily  judge 
to  what  quarter  Lis  Grace  will  apply  for  assistance. 

^  My  Lord,  the  man  who  presumes  to  give  your  Lordsliip  these 
hints,  admires  your  character  without  servility,  and  is  convinoel 
that,  if  this  country  can  be  saved,  it  must  be  saved  by  Lord  Chat- 
ham's spirit — ^by  Lord  Chatham's  abilities*. 

**  To  the  Earl  of  Chatham, 
*'  &c  &e.  &c.  &c.f 
**  At  Hayes,  near  Bromley,  Kent** 

^'jUirinS  TO  THB  EABL  OF  CHATHAM  t. 

[From  the  original  in  his  handwriting.] 
**(Mottieer€t,) 

"Mt  Lobd,  ^  "London,  January  14, 1772. 

^  CoirFiDiiro  implicitly  in  yoxur  Lordship's  honour,  I  take  the 
liberty  of  submitting  to  you  the  inclosed  paper,  before  it  be  given 

*  "  It  may  be  remarked  that  this  panegyric  on  Lord  Chatham  adds  consi- 
derable weight  to  an  opinion  entertained  by  many  persons ;  namely,  that 
some  of  the  Miscellaneous  Letters  inserted  in  Wood&ll's  edition  of  Junius  are 
erroneously  attributed  to  that  distinguished  writer.  The  five  letters  written 
on  the  28th  of  April,  the  28th  of  May,  the  24th  of  June,  and  the  19th  of 
December,  1767,  and  that  on  the  16th  of  February,  1768,  under  the  signa- 
tures of  Poplicola,  Anti-Sejanus  Junior,  Downright,  &c.,  are  conceived  in  a 
spirit  of  bitter  animosity  to  that  nobleman ;  and  it  is  incredible  that  the  same 
individual  should  anonymously  and  privacy  address  a  minister  in  terms 
expressive  of  ''respect  and  veneration"  at  the  very  time  that  he  was  endea- 
vouring to  destroy  that  minister's  influence  by  pvhlicly  ridiculing  his  infirm* 
ities,  and  giving  to  the  world  anonymous  libels  on  his  character  and  oon- 
duct"— JVbfe  hy  ths  Editon  qf  the  Chatham  Papen,  1839. 

t  This  letter  was  forwarded  to  Lord  Chatham  at  Burton  Pynsent,  with 
pioof  sheets  of  those  addressed  to  Lord  Chief  Justice  Mansfield  and  Lord 
CSsmden,  and  which  were  about  to  appear  in  the  Public  Advertuer,    Tbqf 


JUNIUS  TO  LOBP   CHATHAM.  415 

to  the  puone.  It  is  to  appear  on  the  morning  of  the  meeting  of 
|>arliament.  Lord  Mansfield  flatters  himself  that  I  have  dropped 
ail  thoughts  of  attacking  him,  and  I  would  give  him  as  little  tune 
as  possible  to  concert  his  measures  with  the  ministry.  The  address 
to  Lord  Camden  will  be  accounted  for,  when  I  say,  that  the  nation 
in  general  are  not  quite  so  secure  of  his  firmness  as  they  are  of 
Lord  Chatham. 

*^  I  am  so  clearly  satisfied  that  Lord  Mansfield  has  done  an  act 
not  warranted  by  law,  and  that  the  inclosed  argument  is  not  to  be 
answered  (besides  that  I  find  the  lawyers  concur  with  me),  that  I 
am  inclined  to  expect  he  may  himself  acknowledge  it  as  an  over- 
sight, and  endeavour  to  whitue  it  away  to  nothing.  For  this  pos- 
sible event  I  would  wish  your  Lordship  and  the  Puke  of  Richmond 
to  be  prepared  to  take  down  his  words,  and  thereupon  to  move  for 
committing  him  to  the  Tower.  I  hope  that  proper  steps  will  also 
be  taken  in  the  House  of  Commons.  If  he  makes  no  confession  of 
his  guilt,  but  attempts  to  defend  himself  b^  an^  legal  argument, 
I  then  submit  it  to  your  Lordship  whether  it  might  not  be  proper 
to  put  the  following  questions  to  the  judges.  In  fact,  they  answer 
themselves ;  but  it  wiU  embarrass  the  ministry,  and  ruin  the  cha- 
racter which  Mansfield  pretends  to,  if  the  House  should  put  a  direct 
negative  upon  the  motion  :— • 

^  1.  '  Whether,  according  to  the  true  meaning  and  intendment 
of  the  laws  of  England,  relative  to  bail  for  criminal  offences,  a  per- 
son positively  charged  with  felony,  taken  in  flagrante  delicto, 
with  the  mainoeuvre,  and  not  making  any  defence,  nor  offering  any 
evidence  to  induce  a  doubt  whether  he  be  guilty  or  innocent^  is 
haUaUe  or  not  haHahUf 

^  2.  ^  Whether  the  power  exercised  by  the  Judges  of  the  Court 
of  King*s  Bench,  of  bailing  for  offences  not  bailaMe  by  a  justice  of 
peace,  be  an  absolute  power,  of  micre  will  and  pleasure  in  the 
judge,  or  a  discretionary  power,  regulated  and  governed  in  the 
application  of  it  by  the  true  meaning  and  intendment  of  the  law 
relative  to  bail  V 

^  Lord  Mansfield*s  constant  endeavour  to  misinterpret  the  laws 
of  England  is  a  safiicient  general  ground  of  impeachment.  The 
^cific  instances  may  be  taken  from  his  doctrine  concerning 
libels, — ^the  Grosvenor  cause  ;  his  pleading  Mr.  De  Grey*s  defence 
upon  the  bench,  when  he  said,  idein  fecervmt  alii,  et  multi  et  honi; 
his  suffering  an  affidavit  to  be  read,  in  the  King  against  Blair, 
tending  to  inflame  the  court  against  the  defendant  when  he  was 

were  published  on  the  2l8t  of  January,  and  were  the  last  efforts  of  this 
celebrated  writer  under  the  signatiire  of  Jimiiu. — Editort  qf  the  ChatKam 
Papers, 

See  the  private  notes  of  Janins  to  Hr.  Wood&II,  Noi.  48  and  4&,  pw  6% 
which  reCsr  to  the  subject  of  tke  letter  to  Lord  Chatham* 


416  APFKHDIZ. 

brought  up  to  receive  sentence ;  his  diieition  to  the  jnxj:,  in  (AM 
cause  of  Ansell,  b  j  which  he  admitted  parol  eridenoe  against  a 
written  agreement  and  in  consequence  of  which  the  Court  of  Com- 
mon Pleas  granted  a  new  trial ;  and  lastly,  his  partial  and  wicked 
motives  for  bailing  Ejre.  There  are  some  flutoial  drcumstances 
relative  to  this  last,  which  I  thought  it  right  to  reserve  for  your 
Lordship  alone. 

**■  It  inll  appear  by  the  evidence  of  the  gaoler  and  the  city  soli- 
citor's clerk,  uiat  Lord  Mansfield  refused  to  hear  the  return  read, 
and  at  first  ordered  Eyre  to  be  bound  only  in  200Z.  with  two  sure- 
ties, until  his  clerk,  Mr.  Piatt,  proposed  300^.  with  three  sureties. 
Mr.  King,  derk  to  the  city  solicitor,  was  never  asked  iot  his  con- 
sent, nor  did  he  ever  give  any.  From  these  facts  I  conclude, 
either  that  he  bailed  without  knowing  the  cause  of  conmiitment, 
or,  which  is  highly  probable,  that  he  knew  it  extra-judidally  6om 
the  Scotchmen,  and  was  ashamed  to  have  the  return  read. 

'^  I  will  not  presume  to  trouble  your  Lordship  with  any  assur- 
ances, however  sincere,  of  my  respect  and  esteem  for  your  charac- 
ter, and  admiration  of  your  abilities.  Retired  and  unknown,  I  live 
in  the  shade,  and  have  only  a  speculative  ambition.  In  the 
warmth  of  my  imagination,  I  sometimes  conceive  that,  when  Junius 
exerts  his  utmost  faculties  in  the  service  of  his  country,  he  ap- 
proaches in  theory  to  that  exalted  character  which  Lord  Chatham 
alone  fills  up  and  uniformly  supports  in  action. 

"JUNIUa* 


LETTERS  OF  COLONEL  BARRi 

CoLOiTEL  Babbb  was  a  man  (as  already  observed,  Essay,  p.  xxxi) 
of  remarkable  abilities  and  remarkable  hlBtory.  He  was  a  native 
of  Dublin,  of  humble  parentage,  bom  about  the  year  1726.  He  en- 
tered the  army  at  an  early  age,  and  gradually  rose  to  the  rank  of 
colonel.  After  the  death  of  General  Wolfe,  his  commander  and 
friend,  he  addressed  a  letter  to  Mr.  Pitt,  then  Secretaary  of  State^ 
describing  his  services  and  want  of  interest  with  people  in  power, 
and  soliciting  his  aid.  He  was  then  a  major,  and  the  following  is 
a  copy  of  his  letter,  from  the  Chatham  Papers, 

"  SzB,  "  New  York,  April  28, 1760. 

.  *  If  I  presume  to  address  myself  to  the  first  minister  of  my  coun- 
try, it  is  under  the  sanction  of  a  name  "which  is  still  grateful  to 
his  ear.  General  Wolfe  fell,  in  the  arms  of  victory,  on  the  plain 
of  Abraham.  I  received  near  his  person  a  very  dangerous  wound, 
and,  by  the  neglect  I  have  since  met  with,  I  am  apprehensive  that 
my  pretensions  are  to  be  buried  with  my  only  protector  and  friend. 
The  packets  bring  no  directions  concerning  me ;  so  that  I  remaii 


LETTERS  OF   COIX)NEL   BARBE.  417 

18  adjatant-ceneral  with  General  Amherst,  bj  his  desire  ;  though 
with  .•  veiy  bad  prospect  of  ever  being  taken  notice  of. 

**  From  power  i  have  not  interest  enough  to  ask  favour  ;  but, 
unless  the  discernment  of  my  late  general  be  much  called  in  ques- 
tion, I  may  claiin  some  title  to  justice.  If  my  demands  appear 
reasonable,  an  application  to  Mr.  ritt  cannot  be  charged  with  great 
impropriety. 

"  For  want  of  friends,  I  had  lingered  a  subaltern  officer  eleven 
years,  when  Mr.  Wolfe's  opinion  of  me  rescued  me  from  that  ob- 
scuri^.  I  attended  him  as  major  of  brigade  to  the  siege  of  Louis- 
burg,  in  which  campaign  my  zeal  for  the  service  confirmed  him 
^y  friend,  and  gained  the  approbation  of  General  Amherst.  When 
the  expedition  to  Canada  was  determined  upon,  General  Wolfe  got 
his  Majesty's  permission  to  name  me  his  adjutant-general.  Upon 
this  occasion,  I  only  got  the  rank  of  major  in  America,  and  captain, 
in  the  army  ;  my  being  still  a  subaltern  was  the  reason  assigned 
for  such  moderate  honours.  Thus  my  misfortune  was  imputed  to 
me  as. a  fault,  and  though  thought  worthy  of  that  high  employ- 
ment, the  rank  of  lieutenant-colonel  (so  necessary  to  add  weight 
to  it)  was  refused,  although  generally  given  in  like  cases,  and  in 
some  instances  to  younger  officers. 

"  My  conduct  in  that  station  was  so  highly  approved  of  by  the 
General,  that  when  the  success  of  the  campaign  seemed  doubtful. 
He  regretted  his  want  of  power  to  serve  me,  and  only  wished  with 
impatience  for  an  opportunity  to  make  me  the  messenger  of  agree- 
able news.  This  last  honour  the  battle  of  Quebec  deprived  me  of*. 
After  the  defeat  of  his  Majesty's  enemies,  the  trophies  I  can  boast 
only  indicate  how  much  £  suffered  ;  my  zealous  and  sole  advocate 
killed,  my  left  eye  rendered  useless,  and  the  ball  still  in  my  head. 

"  The  presumption  in  appealing  to  you,  I  hope,  will  be  pardoned 
when  I  affirm  that  I  am  almost  utterly  unknown  to  the  Secretary 
at  War.  Besides,  Sir,  I  confess  it  would  be  the  most  flattering  cir- 
cumstance of  my  life  to  owe  my  preferment  to  that  minister  who 
honoured  my  late  general  with  so  important  a  command,  and  which 
I  had  the  pleasure  of  seeing  executed  with  satisfaction  to  my  King 
and  country.  I  have  the  nonour  to  be,  with  the  most  profound 
respect,  Sir,  "  Your  most  devoted  humble  servant, 

"Isaac  Babbe." 

This  application  was  refused  by  Mr.  Pitt  on  the  ground  that 
senior  officers  would  be  injured  by  the  promotion,  and  in  a  subse- 
quent letter  Barr6  expressed  himself  satisfied,  and  "  bound  in  the 
highest  gratitude' '  for  the  attention  he  had  received.  Afterwards 
he  appears  to  have  considered  himself  neglected,  and  obtaining  a 

*  In  the  following  September,  Barr6  was  the  bearer  of  the  desp^.tebet 
lunoanciiig  the  torrender  of  ]yf  ontreaL 

'^"i-    II.  B  K 


418  APPENDIX 

scat  in  Parliament  through  the  interest  of  Lord  Shelburne,  in  the 
following  year,  he  made  a  violent  attack  on  Mr.  Pitt.  It  is  likelj 
this  maiden  outbreak  was  the  result  of  inexperience  as  well  as 
pique ;  at  all  eyents  it  was  in  bad  taste.  Describing  the  oratorical 
manner  of  Mr.  Pitt,  he  said, — "  There  he  would  stand,  turning  up 
his  eyes  to  heaven,  that  witnessed  his  perjuries;  and  laying  his 
hand  in  a  solemn  manner  upon  the  table— that  sacrilegious  hand 
that  had  been  employed  in  tearing  out  the  bowels  of  his  country." 
A  few  years  later  the  Colonel  and  Lord  Chatham  became  good 
'^ends,  for  in  politics  there  seems  neither  friendships  nor  enmities 
— only  interests.  Lest  too  unfavourable  an  impression  should  be  left 
by  this  incident  in  Barr6*s  career,  and  the  better  to  elucidate  the  ob- 
scure history  and  character  of  a  meritorious  man,  I  insert  two 
letters  from  Colonel  Barr6,  written  in  France  in  1764,  and  con- 
tained in  Mr.  Burton's  late  publication  of  '^  Letters  of  Eminent 
I^ersons  addressed  to  David  Hume,"  the  historian : — 

"  DiAS  Hume,  "  Bochefort,  August  8, 1764. 

"When  you  joked  me  about  my  native  coimtry,asyouwas  pleased 
to  call  it,  I  did  not  imagine  that  it  was  likely  to  produce  any  other 
good  to  me  but  a  little  amusement,  and  the  pleasure  of  meeting 
you  in  Paris.  However,  since  my  arrival  in  this  part  of  France, 
I  find  that  an  uncle  of  mine  (younger,  and  only  brother  to  my 
father)  died  lately,  possessed  of  about  ten  thousand  pounds  ster- 
ling, which  (as  there  was  no  will)  has  been  very  rapidly  divided 
amongst  a  number  of  very  distant  relations,  who  supposed  me 
dead.  I  don't  know  all  the  particulars  as  yet,  but  intend  to  set 
out  for  the  very  spot  to-morrow  morning  early,  and  after  gettins 
all  the  information  I  can,  I  shall  go  to  Bordeaux,  where  I  slUkU 
state  the  whole  affair  to  some  able  lawyer,  and  be  directed  by  him 
how  to  proceed.  Forgive  me  if  I  trouble  y\)u  upon  this  occasion  ; 
you  see  it  is  a  serious  one.  First,  let  me  know  what  the  law,  cus- 
tom, or  court  opinion  is  as  to  the  right  of  succession  in  an  English- 
man to  an  inhabitant  of  this  country.  Next,  pray  prepare  youj> 
self  to  support  me  with  all  vour  influence,  if  it  comes  to  any  triaL 
I  only  ask  justice  ;  but  you  11  perhaps  tell  me  that  I  am  very  un- 
conscionable. I  would  not  have  you  speak  of  this,  till  I  can  write 
to  you  more  fully  ;  but,  in  the  meantime,  you  may,  perhaps,  be 
able  to  send  me  some  recommendation  at  Bordeaux,  which  may  be 
of  use  to  me  in  this  affair  :  I  mean  in  the  law  v^ay.  This  will, 
probably,  break  through  my  propcsed  plan,  and  ke^n  me  longer  at 
Bordeaux  than  I  at  first  intended.  However,  th^  object  is  to  me 
important.  Indeed,  if  it  had  not  been  so,  I  should  not  have  given 
you  any  trouble.    Believe  me  most  sincerely  yours, 

'^  Direct  to  me,  at  Messra  Ainsley's,  Bordeaux.*^        ^  J.  BarbBi 


DUEL  BETWEEN  HASTINGS  AND  FBANCIS.  419 

*  Dkar  HuMRj  **  Toulouse,  September  4. 

^I  thank  you  f  ^r  your  last  letter  from  Paris  which  I  receiyed  just 
M  Smith  and  his  U^,  and  L'  Abb6  Colbert  were  sitting  down  to 
dine  with  me  at  Bordeaux.  The  latter  is  a  very  honest  fellow,  and 
deserves  to  be  a  bishop  ;  make  him  one  if  you  can.  I  stated  my 
case  (or,  rather,  my  father^s)  to  a  lawyer  at  Bordeaux,  who  thinks 
he  has  no  right ;  and  groimds  his  opinion  upon  several  of  the 
King's  declarations  ;  and  particularly  upon  one  of  the  27th  of 
OHober,  1725.  He  makes  the  whole  turn  upon  my  grandfather's 
being  a  Protestant.  This  1  have  alleged  (though  without  any 
positive  proof^  to  be  the  case.  May  I  beg  of  you  to  take  some 
lawyer's  opimon,  at  Paris,  simply  upon  this  case  as  I  state  it, 
viz. : — Barr6  dies  in  France  about  twenty-five  years  ago,  leaving 
two  sons,  Peter  and  John ;  Peter  went  over  to  Ireland  about  the 
year  1720  or  22,  young  and  unmarried,  but  afterwards  married  and 
settled  there.  John,  being  upon  the  spot  at  the  time  of  his  father's 
death,  divided  the  property  very  nearly  as  he  thought  proper. 
John  dies  in  September,  1760,  intestate  and  childless.  J^nnomeau, 
a  maternal  uncle  of  his,  takes  possession  of  his  estate  as  nearest 
heir.  This  Bonnomeau  died  in  the  month  following,  and  his  whole 
fortune  was  divided  between  sixteen  nephews  or  nieces,  who  stood 
in  the  same  degree  of  relation  to  him  as  the  deceased  John  Barre 
did.  At  the  time  of  John's  death  it  had  been  reported  that  Peter 
and  his  children  were  dead.  Now,  I  wish  to  know  what  right 
Peter  has  to  the  estate  of  his  brother  John,  considering  the  cir- 
cumstances of  his  having  left  France,  and  his  living  so  long  in 
Ir^and,  professing  the  Protestant  religion,  and  whether  that  right 
is  affected  by  his  father  being  a  Protestant.  John  was  generally 
thought  to  l)e  a  Protestant,  though  his  heirs  contrived  to  nave  him 
buried  as  a  Catholic.  When  you  get  an  opinion,  pray  send  it  to 
Foley's,  who  forwards  all  my  letters,  and  knows  where  to  find  me. 
Why  will  you  triumph  and  talk  of  plaUe  covJtwre  ?  You  have 
friends  on  both  sides.  Smith  agrees  with  me  in  thinking  that  you 
are  turned  soft  by  the  dUices  of  a  French  court,  and  that  you 
don't  write  in  that  nervous  manner  you  was  remarkable  for  in  the 
more  northern  dlimates.  Besides,  what  is  still  worse,  you  take 
your  politics  from  your  Elliots,  Rigbys,  and  Selwyns  !  1 !  A  bad 
politician  tells  me  just  now  that  we  are  to  have  war.  Impossible. 
Adieu." 


DUEL  BETWEEN  MB.  HASTINGS  AND  SIB  PHILIP  FBANCIS. 

The  circumstances  attending  the  personal  rencontre  between 
these  two  emineut  persons  were  somewhat  peculiar,  and  may  deservn 
mors  partieular  notice  than  is  given  in  the  Essay,  p.1. 

£  £  2 


420  APPENUIZ. 

From  the  first  landing  of  the  new  councillors  in  India,  there  hhd 
been  misunderstandings — disputes  on  matters  of  etiquette,  number 
of  discharges  of  salute  guns,  receptions,  and  first  visits.  It  was 
manifest  the  two  divisions  of  the  Supreme  Council,  Messrs.  Cla- 
vering,  Francis,  and  Monson  on  one  side,  and  Messrs.  Hastings 
and  &irker  on  the  other,  were  resolved  not  cordially  to  amalga- 
mate. At  the  council-board  altercations  were  incessant ;  confiict- 
ing  opinions  and  recriminations  were  entered  on  the  minutes; 
till  at  length,  from  daily  bickerings,  the  exasperation  between 
Francis  and  Hastings  became  so  embittered  that  the  latter  seems 
to  have  been  determined  to  bring  their  differences  to  a  short  issue 
by  converting  them  into  a  personal  affair. 

Mr.  Hastings  caused  the  following  minute  to  be  entered  in  the 
council-book,  and  communicated  the  same  to  Mr.  Francis  on  the 
evening  of  August  14,  1780  : — "  My  authority  for  the  opinions  I 
have  declared  concerning  Mr.  Francis  depends  on  facts  which  have 
passed  within  my  own  knowledge.  I  judge  of  his  public  conduct 
Dy  my  experience  of  his  private,  which  I  have  found  to  be  void 
of  tmdh  and  honowr.  This  is  a  severe  charge,  but  temperately  and 
deliberately  made,  from  the  firm  persuasion  that  I  owe  this  justice 
to  the  public  and  myself,  as  the  only  redress  to  both,  for  arti- 
fices of  which  I  have  been  a  victim,  and  which  threaten  to  in- 
volve their  interests  with  disgrace  and  ruin.  The  only  redress  for 
a  fraud  for  which  the  law  1ms  made  no  provision  is  the  exposure 
of  it." 

Next  day  they  met  as  usual  at  the  council-board.  No  notice 
was  taken  of  this  communication  till  iifter  the  conclusion  of  the 
business  of  the  day,  when  Mr.  Francis  desired  to  speak  to  Mr 
Hastings  in  private.  They  withdrew  into  an  adjoining  room, 
when  Mr.  Francis  adopted  the  unusual  course  of  giving  a  verbal 
challenge  to  Mr.  Hastings,  which  was  accepted,  and  the  meeting 
fixed  for  an  early  hour  next  morning.  It  was  altogether  '*  a  silly 
affair, "  as  Mr.  Hastings  admits  in  the  account  he  gave  of  it  to 
a  friend,  and  cited  in  his  "  Life "  by  Mr.  Gleig.  A  native  old 
woman,  Mr.  Hastings  says,  happened  to  be  standing  near  the 
spot,  and  seemed  astonished  at  the  strange  scene  that  passed 
before  her,  enacted  by  two  Europeans.  Two  gentlemen  meet,  take 
their  stand  at  a  measured  distance,  deliberately  fire  their  pistols  at 
each  other ;  one  gentleman  falls,  and  the  other  runs  up  to  tender 
him  assistance.  The  ball  struck  Francis  just  below  the  ri&:ht 
shoulder,  passing  out  at  the  lower  part  of  the  abdomen.  Next  day 
Mr.  Hastings  sent  a  messenger  to  inquire  after  his  health,  and  ex- 
pressed a  desire  to  pay  a  visit  of  condolence.  This  civility  Mr. 
Francis  politely  declined,  expressing  a  due  sense  of  his  kindness, 
and,  not  to  be  outdone,  assured  him  that  nothing  which  had  passed 
would,  on  his  part,  leave  anything  like  feelings  of  personal  ranee ur 
in  their  future  meetings  at  the  council-board. 


LETTER  OF  SERGEANT  ROUGH.  421 


Ma.  SEsaEANT  Rough  to  Mb.  Barker. 

"  Serjeant's  Inn,  Chancery  Lane,  April  12, 1827. 
"  Dear  Sir, — I  hasten  to  acknowledge  your  letter,  with  the 
printed  papers  accompanying  it,  delivered  at  my  chambers  by 
Mr.  Maxon.  I  am  sorry,  however,  that  I  can  render  you  so  very 
little  service  in  respect  of  the  subjects  on  which  you  write.  The 
Letters  of  Junius  to  Mr.  Wilkes  passed  through  m^  hands  to 
Mr.  Woodfall,  and  are  those  which  appear  in  his  edition  of  1812. 
They  belonged  to  Mr.  P.  £lmsley,  the  late  Principal  of  St.  Alban's, 
who,  as  I  believe,  possessed  them  as  executor  to  his  father.  His 
knowledge  of  me  as  a  brother- Westminster  with  me  and  the  cir- 
cumstance of  my  having  married  an  acknowledged  daughter  of 
Mr.  Wilkes,  induced  him  to  decline  letting  Mr.  Woodfall  have 
them  without  my  assent.  They  came  to  me,  from  my  friend 
Mr.  Hallam,  to  whom  they  were  afterwards  returned  for  Mr. 
Elmsley.  Mr.  Wilkes  used,  I  have  been  told,  to  say  that  he  knew 
who  the  author  of  Junius  was — that  it  was  7u>t  Bosenhagen  ;  but 
he  never  said  it  was  not  Sir  P.  Francis.  The  latter  used  to  dine 
at  Kensington  frequently,  and  once  cut  off  a  lock  of  Mrs.  Bough's 
hair  (she  was  then  quite  a  girl).  &ie  had  an  obscure  imagination 
that  her  father  once  said,  she  had  met  Junius,  All  this  is  too 
slight,  I  admit,  to  build  any  conclusion  upon.  In  the  letters,  I 
fear  I  have  to  answer  for  the  striking  out  of  a  line  or  two  ^'n 
which  the  late  king  was  spoken  of,  upon  alleged  personal  know- 
ledge, with  an  expression  of  much  bitterness.  It  was  an  idle 
precaution  on  my  part,  inasmuch  as  Junius's  opinions  could  have 
done  little  harm  to  any  one,  and  were  sufficiently  avowed  in  other 
letters.  I  have  never  seen  the  letters  about  wnich  you  enquire, 
since  they  were  given  back  by  me  to  Mr.  Hallam  for  Elmsley. 
I  may  mention  here,  that  some  letters  of  Mr.  Wilkes's,  forming  a 
part  of  his  correspondence  with  his  daughter  (Mary),  and  pub- 
lished by  Longman  and  Bees,  1804,  also  passed  through  my  hands. 
They  were  purchased  of  Sir  Bobert  Baker,  Bart.,  then  of  Bich- 
mond,  for  j^300,  by  Mr.  Hatchard,  jointly  with  Lon^an  and 
Bees.  I  was  induced  to  superintend  the  publication  with  a  view 
of  serving  Mr.  Hatchard,  and  of  guarding  against  anything 
appearing  in  the  letters  unpleasant  to  the  feelings  of  my  wife. 
She  was  a  natural  daughter  of  Wilkes.  With  him  I  never  was  in 
company;  he  was  dead  before  I  knew  his  daughter.  Of  that 
daughter  our  dear  Dr.  Parr  thought  with  veneration.  For  myself 
(ife  has  never  been  what  it  once  was,  since  I  lost  her. 

'^  There  is  nothing  secret  in  what  I  have  thus  communicated. 

"  I  am  yours  truly, 

*  To  R  H.  Barker,  Esq  "  "  W.  Bouoh." 


•J 


INDEX. 


'«*  The  Roman  numerals  i.  and'ii.  refer  to  the  volumes ;  and  the  figurai,  U 

the  pages  of  each  volume. 


A.  B.  letter  of,  to  the  Duke  of  Grafton, 
ii.  277;  his  grace's  treatment  of 
the  Duke  of  Rutland  exposed, 
277—280 ;  letter  to  the  printer  of 
the  *  Public  Advertiser,*  in  vindica- 
tion of  Junius,  885 — 387. 

Adair  (Mr.),  argument  against  grant- 
ing a  nol.  pros,  in  £etvour  of  the 
messengers  of  the  House  of  Com- 
mons, ii.  368 — 374,  n. ;  named  as 
the  author  of  Junius,  xv. 

Addresses  from  Parliament  considered 
as  a  fashionable  unmeaning  for- 
mality, i.  2d0 ;  their  consequences 
considered,  when  they  mean  exactly 
what  they  profess,  291. 

Administration  of  government,  the 
ruin  or  prosperity  of  a  state,  i.  104. 

Admiralty  (Lords  of),  letter  to,  on 
Hr.  Bradshaw's  appointment  to  be 

.  one  of  their  number,  ii.  407. 

Advocate  in  the  cause  of  the  people, 
letter  of  to  Junius,  I  480 — 482, 
notes ;  reply  to  by  Philo-Junins,  429 
—432. 

Almon  (Mr.),  prosecution  of,  for  libel, 
i.  94. 256. 806,  notes ;  remark  on  his 
exaggerated  statements,  i.  256,  n. ; 
inaccuracies  in  his  edition  of  Junius 
detected,  75  ;  extract  from,  respect- 
ing Mr.  Wilkes,  477,  n.;  Lord 
Chatham's  speech  communicated  to, 
by  Sir  Philip  Francis,  ii.  xlii.  Ixii. ; 
his  intimacy  with  Lord  Temple,  and 
his  connection  with  Junius,  ii. 
Ixvi. 

America,  patronised  by  Mr.  Pitt  and 
Lord  Camden,  i.  107 ;  new  office 
established  for  transacting  its  af- 


fairs, 108  ,*  origin  ot  that  office,  ib. 
n. ;  effects  of  the  Stamp  Act  in,  ii. 
145,  et  seq.     See  Colonies. 

Amicus  Curiae,  letter  of,  on  the 
ministerial  controversy,  ii.  269 — 
^271. 

Amherst  (Sir  Jeffery),  his  dismissal 
from  the  government  of  Virginia,  i. 
10,  20 ;  suiiered  to  be  sacrificed, 
119 ;  dismissed  from  his  govern- 
ment in  America,  ii.  195 ;  strictures 
of  L.  L.  on  this  measure,  196 ; 
Lord  Hillsborough's  conduct  to- 
wards him  considered,  201.  206. 
210.  213  ;  his  negotiation  with  the 
Duke  of  Grafton  considered,  215; 
letter  of  the  Earl  of  Hillsborougli  to 
him,  216,  217;  the  chief  command 
of  the  American  troops  was  never 
offered  to  Sir  Jeffery,  221 ;  further 
remarks  on  this  affair,  222 — 232  ; 
his  noble  and  disinterested  conduct 
in  America,  237,  238. 

Anonymous  letters,  to  the  printer  of 
the  'Public  Advertiser,'  ii.  137; 
strictures  on  the  dispute  with  Ame- 
rica, 145 — 148;  that  a  minister 
who  is  determined  to  do  wrong, 
must  be  a  roan  of  abilities  and  cou- 
rage, 149 ;  the  establishment  of 
the  high  offices  of  state,  a  check  on 
the  prerogative  of  the  crown,  151 ; 
to  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  172  ;  on  his 
grace's  indelicate  conduct  at  the 
Opera  House,  ih. :  to  the  printer  of 
the  'Public  Advertiser,'  191;  the 
state  of  the  colonies  considered,  191 
— 195  ;  to  the  printer  of  the  •  Pub- 
lic Advertiser,'  197  ;  the  effects  <A 


424 


INDEX. 


Ihe  Stamp  Act  and  other  acts  on 
the  colonies,  considered,  199  ;  to 
the  right  hon.  Qeo.  Ghrenville,  259 ; 
his  influence  and  integrity  stated 
and  considered,  260,  261. 

iLntl-Belial,  letter  of,  on  Junius^s  at- 
tack upon  Lord  Mansfield,  389 ; 
letter  of,  from  the  pen  of  .Junius,  ii. 
890 ;  further  vindication  of  Junius, 
895,  396. 

A.nti-Fox,  letter  of,  to  the  printer  of 
the  *  Public  Advertiser/  ii.  884 ; 
on  Junius's  conduct  to  Lord  Hol- 
land, tb. 

Anti-Junins,  letter  of,  to  Junius,  on 
his  strictures  on  the  bailing  of  Mr. 
Eyre,  ii.  386,  n. ;  extract  from  his 
answer  to  Junius's  67th  letter, 
891,  392,  not4st ;  reply  thereto,  390, 
891. 

Anti-Sejanus,  letter  of,  to  the  printer 
of  the  'Public  Advertiser,'  ii.  118  ; 
the  mischiefs  of  Lord  Bute's  govern- 
ment stated,  119. 

Anti-van-Teflgne,  letter  of,  on  Sir 
William  Lowther's  grant,  ii.  160; 
reply  to,  by  Anti-iStewart,  161, 
et  seq. 

Arbitrary  principles,  growth  of,  in 
this  country,  ii.  159,  160. 

Ashburton,  (Lord).  See  Dunning , 
infra, 

Attic  wit,  on  the  characteristics  of,  i. 
219,  n. 

Atticiis,  one  of  the  assumed  signatures 
of  Junius,  i.  8 ;  his  first  letter  un- 
der this  signature  written  in  1768, 
9  ;  his  letter  to  the  printer  of  the 
'Public  Advertiser,'  ii.  202;  not 
Junius,  202,  n. ;  the  state  of  the 
country  considered,  previously  to 
the  war  with  America,  203—206 ; 
defends  his  statement,  288—241 ; 
review  of  the  measures  of  ministers, 
248—250 ;  the  statements  of  Atti- 
cus  vindicated  by  Brutus,  252, 253; 
to  the  printer  of  the  'Public  Adver- 
tiser,' 254 ;  the  most  contemptible 
sharacter  is  that  which  possesses 
iwith«r  judgment  nor  inclination  to 


do  right,  nor  resolution  enoui^h  to 
be  consistent  in  doing  wrong,  ih. ; 
this  remark  illustrated  in  the  Duke 
of  Grafton's  administration,  254-- 
257  ;  Junius  availed  himself  of  the 
materials  of,  257,  n. 

Augur,  letter  of,  on  the  Dnke  of  Ghnf- 
ton's  administration,  ii.  276,  277. 

Aylesbury  election,  resolution  of  the 
House  of  Commons  concerning,  ii. 
861, 71. 

Bail,  statement  of  the  law  of,  i.  445, 
et  seq. 

Barker  (E.  H.),  Dr.  Good's  letter  to, 
i.  184. 

Barre  (Col.),  a  claimant  to  the  author- 
ship of  Junius,  ii.  xxi.  xxix. ;  his 
letters  to  Pitt  and  David  Hume, 
ii.  417,  418,  419;  biographical  no- 
tice of,  417;  speech  against  Pitt, 
418 ;  genealogy  of,  419. 

Barrell  (Mr.  S.),  presides  at  a  meeting 
for  supporting  the  Bill  of  Rights,  ii. 
71. 

Barrington  (Lord),  notices  of  the  let- 
ters to,  i.  86.  99;  Junius's  antipathy 
to,  42.  55.  59.  ii.  897  ;  secretary  at 
war,  i.  104 ;  expels  Mr.  D'Oyley 
and  Mr.  Francis  (afterwards  Sir 
Philip  Francis)  from  the  War  Of- 
fice, ii.  xxiiv.  55.  827.  892,  n., 
898.  404,  405 ;  notices  of,  59,  n, ; 
portrait  of,  by  Correggio,  128  ;  let- 
ter from,  justifying  the  conduct  of 
the  troops  in  the  Wilkes'  riots, 
182 ;  his  conduct,  as  secretary  at 
war,  condemned  by  Testis,  810; 
ironically  defended  by  Testiculus, 
811,  312;  letters  of  a  Veteran 
to  him  on  his  choice  of  a  deputy 
secretary,  892,  €t  seq. ;  curious  dia- 
logue, supposed  to  have  passed  in 
his  office,  898,  894;  his  lordship 
charged  with  ruining  Gen.  Fowke, 
897 ;  stite  of  the  &ct,  ib,  n, ;  his 
political  changes  examined,  397, 
898 ;  his  changes  in  the  War  Office, 
id. ;  conversation  of  his  Majesty 
with  Lord  B.,  398 ;  the  affiiir  of  Si 


INDEX. 


425 


3e6rge*8  Fieldf  considered,  S99; 
bis  ungenerous  nicknaming  of  Gene- 
ral Harrey  censured,  400 ;  dialogue 
between  his  lordship  and  one  of  his 
agents,  400,  401 ;  defended  by  No- 
▼alls,  402;  estimate  of  his  lord- 
ship's abilities,  403 ;  his  vicious  con- 
duct, ib,;  on  his  abuse  of  the  Scotch 
character,  406,  407;  memoirs  of 
his  political  life  and  delinquencies, 
ii.  409 — 412;  his  various  offices, 
and  death,  412,  n. 

Barristers  defence  of  Lord  Mansueld 
against  the  several  charges  brought 
by  Junius,  iL  432 — 436,  notes ;  re- 
ply to  him  by  a  **  friend  of  Junius," 
432—437. 

Beckford  (Mr.,  Lord  Mayor),  his  letter 
to  a  Liveryman  on  embezzlement  of 
the  public  money,  ii.  9,  10. 

Bedford  (Corporation  of)  admit  stran- 
gers to  their  freedom,  in  order  to 
shake  off  the  tyranny  of  the  Duke 
of  Bedford,  i.  213;  history  of  the 
circumstance,  ib,  n. 

Bedford  (Duke  of)  unpopular,  i.  210  ; 
causes  of  his  unpopularity  stated, 
ib.  211,  n.;  a  letter  to  him  from 
Junius,  210,  et  seq. ;  his  feelings 
nice,  if  to  be  judged  from  his  resent- 
ments, 211;  comparative  view  of 
his  grace's  advantages,  what  he  w<u 
and  what  he  might  have  been,  ib. — 
213 ;  avows  his  selling  a  borough, 
213  and  n. ;  defeated  by  the  corpo- 
ration of  Bedford,  ib,  and  n.  ;  ac- 
cused of  insensibility  on  the  loss  of 
his  son,  214;  is  horsewhipped  at 
Litchfield,  ib.  n. ;  his  grace  every 
way  unfortunate,  »&. ;  Ms  embassy 
to  Versailles  the  first  important 
part  of  his  history,  ib, ;  anecdote 
of  his  mission,  215,  n. ;  those  who 
are  acquainted  with  his  grace's  pe- 
cuniary character  are  apt  to  sus- 
pect that  such  sacrifices  would  not 
have  been  made  without  some  pri- 
vate compensations,  ib.;  stipula- 
tions between  him  and  Lord  Bute 
Yiohited,  ib.;  his  outrageous  con- 


duct to  t:  e  King,  ib.  216 ;  again 
solicits  Lord  Bute's  firiendship,  ib, ; 
measures  to  obtain  and  confirm  his 
power,  ib.  et  seq, ;  admonitions  oi 
Junius  to  him,  217,  218  ;  severity 
of  Junius'  letters  to,  i.  218,  219, 
235,  n.  239;  vindicated  by  Sir 
William  Draper,  i.  224,  et  seq. ;  Ju- 
nius's  view  of  his  character,  229, 
230  ;  anecdotes  of  bis  grace's  libe- 
rality, and  vindication  of  him,  230, 
notes ;  Tullins'  strictures  on  Junius ; 
letters  to,  232  ;  defence  of,  282— 
234,  n. ;  makes  a  public  display  of 
insensibility  at  the  death  of  his  son, 
237 ;  anecdote  of  his  parsimony, 
ib,  n. ;  character  of  his  grace's 
friends,  ii.  249 

Bedford  (Duchess  of),  anecdote  of,  i. 
238,  n. 

Benson  (Mr.),  challenged  as  a  jury- 
man by  Lord  Mansfield,  i.  313. 426. 

Bifrons,  letter  of,  to  the  printer  of  the 
'Public  Advertiser,'  ii.  173;  the 
duplicity  of  ministers  exposed,  ib, 
et  seq,;  no  evidence  of  his  being 
Junius,  175,91. 

Bill  of  Bights'  Society,  declaration 
and  resolutions  of,  ii.  71,  n,;  exa- 
mination of  their  respective  clauses 
by  Junius,  71 — 81 ;  remarks  on, 
by  Mr.  Wilkes,  105,  106. 

Bingley  (Mr.),  imprisoned  for  contu- 
macy, i.  130,  n. ;  illegally  impri- 
soned, 310,  n. 

B4ackstone  (Dr.,  afterwards  Sir  Wm.), 
character  of^  i.  14  ;  solicitor  to  the 
Queen,  165 ;  more  anxious  to  pre- 
serve his  place  than  his  reputa- 
tion, ib, ;  letter  to  him  from  Junius, 
185;  remarks  on  a  pamphlet  in  de- 
fence of  his  conduct,  ISQ,  et  seq,; 
charged  with  asserting  in  the  House 
of  Commons  doctrines  differing  from 
those  maintained  in  his  Comment* 
aries,  187;  strictures  thereon,  188' 
that,  when  he  spoke  in  the  house, 
he  never  once  thought  on  the  Coni<* 
meutarles,  until  the  contradiction 
was    unexpectedly    urged,     191; 


426 


IMDCX. 


postscript  to  his  pamphlet,  en- 
titled, "  An  Answer  to  the  Qaes- 
tion  stated/'  191,  et  teq. ;  Junios's 
reply  thereto,  197,  et  seq. ;  his  doc- 
trine on  the  pains  of  death  exa- 
mined, ii.  267,  268. 

Bohn  (Mr.),  note  furnished  to  the 
editor  hy,  respecting  the  sale  of  Sir 
Philip  Francis's  library,  ii.  Ixxxvi. 
ditto,  on  the  Jesuitical  books,  175 
—6. 

Boston,  proceedings  at,  considered,  ii. 
145. 

Boutetort  (Lord),  ruined  by  gambling 
and  extravagance,  i.  10 ;  appointed 
to  succeed  Sir  J.  Amherst,  as  go- 
Temor  of  Virginia,  ii.  196;  reflec- 
tions on  the  choice  of  his  lordship, 
ib, ;  remarks  on  his  lordship,  201. 
206.  208.  212,  n.  218. 

Bo}-d  (Hugh  Hacauley),  a  pretended 
author  of  the  Letters  of  Junius,  i. 
67,  ii.  zxii. ;  anecdotes  of,  i.  68 ; 
examination  of  the  claims  made  for 
him,  68,  et  teq. ;  proved  itot  to  be 
Junius,  77. 

Bradshaw  (Mr.),  secretary  to  the  Duke 
of  Grafton,  account  of,  i.  164,  n. ; 
amount  of  his  pension,  and  how 
secured,  275,  n. ;  is  called  upon 
to  convince  and  undeceive  the  pub- 
lic, ii.  300,  801 ;  exculpated  by 
Mr.  Cooper,  804 ;  further  remarks 
on  Mr.  B.'s  conduct,  805 ;  letter  to 
him,  806 ;  account  of  his  political 
career,  407,  408. 

Bristol  (Borl)  lord  privy  seal,  i.  104^ 

Britton  (John),  on  Col.  Barre's  claims/ 
vol.  i.  p.  56.  2.  zxi.  xxix. 

Bromfield  (Mr.),  opinion  of,  on  the 
murder  of  George  Clarke,  i.  188,  n. 

Brooke  (Dr.),  said  to  be  quartered  upon 
the  salary  of  a  patent  place,  pur- 
chased by  Mr.  Hine,  i.  251,  ii.  25. 

Brougham  (Lord),  his  analytical  re- 
view of  the  coincidences  of  spelling 
and  writing  of  Junius  and  Sir 
Philip  Francis,  ii.  xliv.  xlv. ;  his 
conversation  with  Sir  Philip  Francis 
on  ',he  merits  of  Wilkes,  Ixxxix.     | 


Bnitus,  one  of  the  assumed  signatures 
of  Junius,  i.  8 ;  letter  of,  to  Lord 
North,  on  the  choice  of  his  friends 
and  ministerial  conduct,  iL  86 — 88, 
n. ;  to  the  printer  of  the  '  Pablio 
Advertiser,'  242 ;  the  state  of  the 
ministry  examined,  242,  243 ;  to 
the  printer  of  the  *  Public  Adver- 
tiser,' 252  ,*  the  same  subject  con- 
tinued, 252,  253. 

Bucarelli  (the  Spanish  Governor  of 
Buenos  Ayres),  acted  in  obedience 
to  his  orders,  i.  818—821. 

Burgojrne  (Col.),  his  expenses  at  Pres- 
ton, i.  250 ;  biographical  notices  of^ 
255,  A. ;  the  purchase-money  of  the 
patent  place  said  to  be  given  to  him 
for  his  services  there,  251,  252,  and 
n. ;  history  of  the  sale  of  a  patent 
place,  ii.  25,  26. 

Burke  (Mr.),  extract  from  his  remarks 
on  Junius,  i.  4,  n. ;  proof  that  he 
was  not  the  author  of  Junius's  Let- 
ters, 56,  et  teq. ;  extracts  from  his 
speech  on  American  taxation,  58 ; 
his  description  of  the  oratory  of  Sir 
Philip  Francis,  ii.  liv. ;  satirical 
speech  attributed  to  him,  134 — 136, 
nolet;  not  Junius,  138,  iu  xzvi 
xxvii.;  extract  from  a  suppressed 
speech  of,  148. 

Bums  (Mary),  her  letter  to  Lord  On- 
slow, ii.  16. 

Buten  harem,   the    Jesuit,  his   work 
/publicly  burnt  at  Paris,  ii.   175. 

/  176,  n. 

^ute  (Lord),  Junius's  invincible  hatred 
of,  i.  40 ;  strictures  on  his  mal-admi- 
nistration,  ii.  118.  380 ;  influence 
attributed  to  fidladons,  118,  119, 
n, ;  historical  notices  of,.  168,  %, 

Butler  (Dr.,  Bishop  of  Herefoid),  es 
timate  of  his  talents,  i.  60 ;  proofs 
that  he  did  not  write  the  Letters  of 
Junius,  61;  could  not  have  been 
Junius,  ii.  xvii. ;  one  of  the  daim- 
ants  to  the  authorship  of,  xxii. 

C.  (the  privatesignatureof  Junius),  le^ 
ter  of,  to  the  printer  of  tha  '  PaUii 


INDEX. 


427 


Adrertiser/   ii.  163;  tlie  conduct 
of  ministers  towards  Mr.  Wilkes, 
fiince  his  return  to  this  country, 
examined,  z5.  et  seq, ;  to  the  same, 
34;    examination  of  the    maxim, 
nullum  teniptii  occurrit  reffi,  168, 
et  seq. ;  to  the  same,  177 ;  that  the 
endeavours  of  ministers  to  make  us 
happy  have  been  equally  indefati- 
gable and  ingenious,  tb.;  illustra- 
tion of  this  remark,  by  a  detail  ofi 
their  conduct,  ib.  178  ;  to  the  same,  j 
on  the  new  commission  of  trade,  | 
186,  187;  reply  to  Insomnis,  onj 
the  same  subject,  189 — 191.  | 

Calamities  (national)  caused  by  the 
conduct  and  character  of  ministers, 
i.  117. 

Oalcraft  (Mr.),  his  vote  worth  reckon- 
ing in  a  division,  i.  416 ;  introduced 
into  political  notice  by  Lord  Hol- 
land, %b,  ii.  Iviii. ;  the  correspond- 
ent and  confidential  secretary  of 
Lord  Chatham,  Ix.  Ixi.— Ixv. ;  his 
letter  to  Mr.  Almon,  Ixviii. ;  his 
friendship  for  Sir  Philip  Francis, 
ib. ;  note  to  Earl  Temple,  ii.  31,  n.; 
to  the  Earl  of  Chatham,  64,  n. 

CSamden  (Lord),  remarks  on  Junius's 
letters  to,  i.  27,  28 ;  Junius's  good 
opinion  of,  44;  Lord  Chancellor, 
104 ;  the  patron  of  America,  163  ; 
his  noble  resolution  concerning  the 
resolution  of  the  House  of  Com- 
mons in  CoL  Luttrell's  affair,  i. 
274,  n,;  is  commanded  to  resign 
the  seals  in  consequence,  275,  n, ; 
his  opinion  relative  to  the  King's 
power  during  a  recess  of  Parlia- 
ment, 417,  418.  420,  n. ;  letter  to 
liis  lordship  from  Junius,  465; 
who  calls  upon  him  to  stand  forth 
in  defence  of  the  laws  of  his  coun- 
try, ih.  466 ;  one  of  the  claimants 
to  the  Letters  of  Junius,  ii.  xxii. 
XXV. ;  portrait  of,  by  Correggio, 
123,  and  n. ;  another,  by  Atticus. 
248  :  accepts  Lord  Mansfield's  chal> 
)enge,  817  ;  who  declines  to  reply 
to  Lord  Camden,  320. 


Campbell  (Lovd),  his  conversatioQ 
with  Mr.  Wood&ll  respectuig  the 
autograph  of  Junius,  i.  6,  n,; 
proves  that  Junius  was  not  a  pro- 
fessional lawyer,  i.  53,  ii.  xiv. ;  his 
claims  for  Mr.  Boyd  to  be  the  au- 
thor of  Junius's  Letters  examined, 
i.  68.  76 ;  his  claims  disproved,  77; 
remarkable  letter  to,  from  Lady 
Francis,  on  the  identity  of  Juniuf 
with  Sir  Philip  Francis,  iL  Ixzii. 

Carlton  House,  plan  of  tutelage  and 
future  dominion  over  the  heir  appa- 
rent, formed  there  njany  years  ago, 
i.  257,  n. 

Carpenter  (Mr.),  committed  by  Wilkes 
for  obeying  an  order  of  the  House 
of  Commons  in  arresting  Mr. 
Wheble,  ii.  349. 

Chamier  (Mr.),  appointed  deputy  se- 
cretary-at-war  by  the  displacement 
of  Mr.  D'Oyley,  iL  xxxviii.  n, 
55.  327.  892.  398,  n,  405;  stric- 
tures thereon,  392.  398.  412. 

Charles  I.  and  IL  hypocrites,  but  of 
different  sorts,  i.  155;  treachery  of 
the  Scotch  to  Charles  I.  265. 

Chatham  (Lord),  Junius's  commenda- 
tions of,  i.  46 ;  introduces  the  Duke 
of  Grafton  into  the  political  world. 
105.  156,  and  n. ;  obliged  to 
withdraw  his  name  from  an  admi- 
nistration formed  on  the  credit  of 
it,  157 ;  the  city  of  London  vote 
their  thanks  to  him  for  his  declara- 
tion in  fiivour  of  short  parliaments, 
and  his  reply,  384 — 386,  n.  iL 
108;  one  of  the  claimants  to  the 
Letters  of  Junius,  xxii.  xxv. ;  the 
reports  of  hid  speech  by  Junius  and 
Sir  Philip  Francis  identical,  xliii. ; 
his  communications  with  Junius, 
lix.  Ixvi. ;  his  visit  to  Dr.  Frank- 
lin, Ixvi.  n, ;  Junius,  an  ardent  ad- 
mirer of,  lix.  109,  110.  149.  152. 
171 ;  his  first  correspondence  with 
Junius  noticed,  Ixvii.  n. ;  noble  elo- 
quence of,  Ixxxviii. ;  severe  invec- 
tive against  him  by  PoplvQola,  108; 
his   rupture  with   Lord    Temple^ 


428 


n^nEx. 


112;  on  the  correspondence  of, 
109.  Ill,  112.  152,  notes;  cen- 
sured by  Anti-Sejanus,  for  accept- 
ing a  pension  and  title,  118 — 120; 
the  country  indebted  to  him  fur  the 
greatest  part  of  the  national  debt, 
147 ;  extract  irom  his  speech,  by 
Junius,  234,  n, ;  political  anecdotes 
of,  266,  267,  notes ;  private  letters 
to  Junius,  418.  415 ;  Junius's  pa- 
negyric  on,  414,  n, 

Chatham  Papers,  correspondence  from 
the,  413--421. 

Chatterton,  literary  forgeries  of,  ii.  xii. 

Chesterfield  (Lord),  one  of  the  claim- 
ants to  the  Letters  of  Junius,  ii. 
xxii.  xxviii.  xxix. 

Church  (The),  bishops,  &c.,  allusions 
to,  ii.  256.  313. 

Clarke  (Geo.),  killed  at  an  election 
fray,  i.  136 ;  warrant  for  pardon- 
ing his  supposed  murderer,  188, 
139,  notes. 

Clavering  (Gkn.),  insult  to  the  me- 
mory of,  repelled  by  Sir  P.  Francis^ 

•  •      « •  •  • 

u.  nil. 

Cleophas,  letters  of,  to  the  printer  of 
the  'Public  Advertiser,'  ii.  213; 
Sir  J.  Amherst's  resignation  consi- 
dered, 214-216.  222—225. 

Clergy  are  incapacitated  from  sitting 
in  Parliament,  i.  200 ;  Junius  not 
a  clergyman,  ii.  xvi. 

Cockbum  (Mr.  Serjeant),  character 
of,  i.  99. 

Cocoa  Tree,  visitors  of  the,  described 
by  Gibbon,  ii.  xviiL 

Coke  (Sir  Edward),  observation  on 
England,  i.  99 ;  his  opinion  with 
regard  to  the  power  of  the  House 
of  Commons  to  commit  for  con- 
tempt, 846. 

Colbert  (I'Abb^),  character  of,  ii.  419. 

Colonies  of  America,  discontent  in,  i. 
2 ;  alienated  from  their  natural 
affection  to  the  mother  country, 
107 ;  Stamp  Act  made  and  re- 
pealed, ib.f  and  a  new  mode  of  tax- 
ing them  invented,  t&. ;  effect  pro- 
duced there  by  the  Stamp  Act,  158 


n,f  ii.    145,  ef  seq, ;  royal  eomit^ 

sion  constituted  for  improving  the 
plantations  of,  i.  186  ;  held  up  to 
ridicule  by  Junius,  187,  188 ;  re- 
sistance of,  defended  by  Mr.  Con- 
way, 198;  no  assistance  to  be 
expected  t^  the  King,  from  their 
alienated  affections,  264 ;  state  of 
considered,  261  —  265;  origin  of 
hostilities  between  them  and  the 
mother  country,  298,  n. 

Commissioned  officers,  number  of,  in 
the  Guards,  i.  265,  n. 

Commons,  House  of,  their  powers  de- 
fined, i.  87;  whether  one  of  its 
members,  who  is  expelled,  is  there- 
by incapacitated  from  being  Tf 
elected,  176,  et  seq.;  duties  oi. 
defined,  261,  262 ;  that  they  hav«> 
attributed  to  their  own  vote  an 
authority  equal  to  an  act  of  the 
legislature,  267;  are  only  inter- 
preters, whose  duty  it  is  faithfully 
to  convey  the  sense  of  the  people 
to  the  crown,  291 ;  debates  in 
prohibited,  323,  n.;  proceedings 
against  various  printers  for  vio- 
lating the  privileges  of,  ib.  329, 
330,  n. ;  their  arrests  resisted,  ib. ; 
Crosby,  the  Lord  Mayor  of  London, 
and  others  sent  to  prison,  ib. ;  would 
best  consult  their  dignity  by  ap- 
pealing to  the  laws  when  offended, 
338,  and  n. ;  arbitrary  proceeding's 
of,  ib.  and  n. ;  Jimius's  remarks  on 
the  assumed  privileges  of,  347, 
848,  notes ;  strictures  on  their  pro- 
ceedings against  the  newspaper 
printers,  for  reporting  their  debates, 
ii.  348 — 351 ;  statement  of  cir- 
cumstances connected  therewith, 
and  remarks  on  their  powers  of 
commitment,  t6.  n.  361,  et  seq.; 
compel  the  Lord  Mayor's  clerk  to 
expunge  the  minutes  of  commit- 
ment, 366. 

Conway  (Hon.  Henry  Seymour),  no- 
tice of,  i.  148,  and  ii.  414,  n.; 
portrait  of,  iL  122;  resistaaee  a* 
the  colonies  defended  by,  198^ 


INDEX. 


429 


Cooper  (Mr.  Grey),  letter  of,  ezcol- 
pkting  Mr.  Bradshaw,  ii.  804. 

Comwallis  (Lord),  political  sketches 
of,  ii.  295. 

Correggio  (Junius),  letter  of,  ii.  120; 
sketches,  outlixies  of  subjects  for 
Lord  Townshend's  pencil,  120 — 
124. 

Corsica  shamefully  abandoned,  i.  117 ; 
brief  account  of  its  subjugation,  ib., 
n. ;  would  nerer  have  been  in- 
vaded, had  the  British  Court  inter- 
pos'd  with  dignity  and  firmness, 
118,  n. 

Cotterill  (Mr.  Stephen),  ironical  let- 
ters, on  his  Gazette  announcement, 
ii.  186, 187. 

Council,  satirical  minutes  of  a  grand 
council,  upon  the  afiEairs  of  Ireland, 
ii.  128,  et  seq. 

Court  and  King,  Junius^s  intimate 
knowledge  of  the,  i.  216.  314,315. 

Crito,  letters  from,  to  Mr.  Weston,  i. 
145.  150. 

Cromwell  (Oliver),  with  all  his  crimes, 
had  the  spirit  of  an  Bnglishman, 
i.  326. 

Crosby  (Mr.  Alderman),  Junius's 
strictures  on,  ii.  67,  et  seq.  88 ; 
spirited  address  to  the  Speaker  of 
the  House  of  Commons,  ii.  849,  n. ; 
committed  to  the  Tower,  350,  n. ; 
address  to  him  on  his  conduct, 
351,  et  seq. 

Crown,  undue  influence  of,  caused  by 
long  Parliaments,  i.  89.  90;  the 
maxim,  'that  no  length  of  time 
secures  against  a  claim  of  the 
crown,'  examined  and  refuted,  ii. 
155,  et  seq. 

Cumberland  (Wm.,  Duke  of),  in  his 
time  parliamentary  influence.  pre> 
Tailed  least  in  the  army,  i.  123. 

Cumberland  (late  Duke  of),  letter  to, 
on  his  marriage  with  Mrs.  Horton, 
ii.  38,  n.  887. 389;  account  thereof, 
387,  388. 

Cumbriensis,  letter  of,  to  the  Duke  of 
Cumberland,  ii.  387,  et  seq. ;  his 
((race's  nuptiaU  considered,  ih. 


Dalr^  nple  (BTr.),  the  author  of  the 

.  letters  tc  Junius,  under  the  signa- 
ture of  Modestus,  i.  285,  n. ;  letter 
of  noticed,  ib. 

Dates,  conflicting  evidence  of,  ii 
114,  n. 

Debt  (Public),  observations  on  the 
increase  of,  i.  106 ;  amount  of,  in 
1763.  ib.  n. 

Dedication  of  Junius's  Letters  to  the 
people  of  England,  reasons  for, 
i.  87. 

De  Grey  (Lord  Chief  Justice),  stric- 
tures on  his  charge,  while  Attorney- 
General,  against  the  tendency  of 
Junius's  Letters,  i.  96. 

De  la  Fontaine  (M.),  appointed 
barrack-master  to  the  Savoy,  ii. 
25. 

De  Lolme  (M.),  remark  of,  on  the 
liberty  of  the  press,  i.  101 ;  one  of 
the  claimants  to  the  Letters  of  Ju- 
nius, with  biographical  notices  of, 
ii.  xxii.  xxiii. 

Dingley  (Mr.),  an  unsuccessful  can- 
didate for  the  county  of  Middlesex, 
i.  142,  n. ;  his  death,  356,  n. 

Dodd  (Lieutenant),  applies  to  Lieut. 
Garth  for  the  assistance  of  his 
guard  to  rescue  General  Gansel,  i. 
241;  remarks  on  Capt.  D.'s  con- 
duct, 46;  ii.  284.  289.  291. 

Domitian,  letter  of,  to  the  printer  of 
the  'Public  Advertiser,'  ii.  292; 
political  sketches  of  ministers,  ib. — 
296 ;  to  the  same,  312  ;  the  Duke 
of  Grafton's  conduct  while  in  office 
examined,  ib. — 316 ;  to  the  same, 
325;  Lord  Sandwich's  return  to 
'Office  considered,  326,  327 ;  to  the 
same,  on  the  change  of  ministers, 
with  a  review  of  their  respective 
talents,  331—836;  takes  leave  of 
the  Duke  of  Grafton,  381. 

Downright,  letter  of,  to  the  printei  of 
the  'Public  Advertiser,*  ii.  147; 
the  obligations  of  the  country  to 
Lord  Chatham,  148. 

D'Oyley  (Mr.),  acle:kof  the  War  Oflk*, 
expelled  from  thence  by  Lord  Bu< 


430 


INDEX. 


rington,  and  Mr.  Chamier  ap- 
pointed, ii.  xxxiv.  55.  327.  892,  n. 
898.  405. 
Draper  (Sir  Wm.),  character  of,  i.  13 ; 
severity  of  Junius's  letters  to,  14 ; 
remarks  on  his  replies  to  Junius, 
18 ;  vindicates  and  commends  Lord 
Granby  against  the  charges  of 
Junius,  112 — 116  ;  biographical 
notices  of,  116.  118,  n.;  strictures 
on  Junius's  letter  to  him,  121,  et  seq. ; 
further  vindicates  Lord'  Granby, 
122;  is  involved  in  a  controversy 
on  account  of  his  description  of  his 
friend,  ib. ;  his  talents  and  writings, 
122.  126.  130,  n.;  vindicates  him- 
self in  the  afiair  of  the  Manilla  ran- 
som, 124 ;  accounts  for  his  promo- 
tions, 1 25 ;  another  letter  to  Junius, 
129 ;  answers  a  question  proposed 
by  Junius,  ih. ;  politics  of  Sir  Wil- 
liam not  violent,  131,  n.;  letters 
to  the  printer  of  the  '  Public  Ad- 
vertiser,' 132, 133 ;  his  plan  for  con- 
ciliating parties,  ib.;  anecdote  of, 
133, 71.;  is  requested  by  the  Mar- 
quis of  Granby  V*  desist  from  vin- 
dicating him,  132,  n. ;  defends  him- 
self against  Junius,  in  another  letter 
to  the  printer  of  the  *  Public  Adver- 
tiser,' 133,  134,  notes;  to  Junius, 
219;  complains  of  Junius's  asser- 
tion, that  he  had  sold  the  com- 
panions of  his  success,  %b. ;  that  it 
is  a  malicious  fidsehood,  and  chal- 
lenges the  writer  to  meet  the 
charges,  tb, ;  appeals  to  the  gentle- 
men to  whom  he  had  applied  in 
this  affair,  221 ;  remarks  on  his 
letter  to  Junius,  221,  222.  227, 
notesi  to  Junius,  that  he  has  read 
his  letter  to  the  Duke  of  Bed- 
ford with  horror  and  astonishment, 
wherein  an  affectionate  fether  is  up- 
braided with  the  loss  of  an  only 
and  most  amiable  son,  225;  that 
Junius  goes  wantonly  out  of  his 
way  to  torment  declining  age,  ib.; 
rails  upon  Junius  to  prove  the 
Duke's  avarice  befo  «  he  draws  his 


hasty  and  wicked  conclosions,  226 , 
but  if  an  ambassador  loves  Lioney 
too  much,  is  this  a  proof  that  he 
has  taken  any  to  betray  his  country  \ 
ib, ;  that  the  Duke,  however  power- 
ful, is  amenable  to  justice,  and  that 
Parliament  is  the  solemn  and  high 
tribunal,  tb.;  Sir  William's  account 
of  the  ministerial  quarrels,  227; 
biographical  notices  of,  ib.;  vindi- 
cates Lord  Chatham  against  Mr. 
Wilkes,  ii.  114—117,  notes, 

Dubois  (Mr.),  an  intimate  friend  of  Sir 
Philip  Francis,  ii.  Ixxviii.  Ixxxiv.  u. 

Dunning  (J.,  Lord  Ashburton),  a  re- 
puted author  of  Junius,  i.  79; 
proofs  that  he  was  not  Junius,  ib., 
ii.  XV.;  solicitor-general,  104. 

Duplicity,  the  predominant  virtue  of 
ministers,  ii  178. 

Dyer  (Samuel),  proofs  that  he  was 
not  the  writer  of  Junius's  Letters, 
i.  55 ;  noticed  as  one  of  the  claim- 
ants to,  ii.  xxiii. 

Dyson  (Mr.  Jer.),  remarks  on  his  ser- 
vices by  Mr.  Flood,  i.  80;  the 
author  of  '  The  Case  of  the  Late 
Klection  for  the  County  of  Middle- 
sex considered,*  185,  n.  198,  n.; 
loses  his  pension,  ii.  48,  n. 

Egremont  (Lord),  character  of,  i.  215, 
and  n, 

Eldon  (Lord),  his  opinion  of  the  letten 
of  Junius,  i.  48,  n. 

Election,  right  of,  the  very  essence  of 
the  constitution,  i.  150.  See  Midr 
dlesex, 

Ellis  (Mr..  Welbore),  sure  of  disgrace, 
whether  he  make  or  suppress  a 
motion,  i.  288 ;  account  of  his  in- 
tended motion,  t&.  n. ;  diminutive 
stature  of,  849,  n. 

Embezzlement  of  public  money  charged 
against  Lord  Holland,  in  a  petition 
of  the  city  of  London,  ii.  7,  8 ;  cor- 
respondence thereon  between  Lord 
Holland  and  Mr.  Beckfbrd,  9,  ii 
seq. 

Emigiatkn,  leroarkf  on,  ii  102. » 


INDIEX. 


481 


Bi^liind,  people  of,  by  nature  some- 
what phlegmatic,  ii.  153;  advan- 
tages of  this  temper,  ib. ;  examples 
of  it,  154,  et  seq,;  letters  on  the 
state  of,  202—206.  238—241; 
state  of  in  the  spring  of  1767,  ii. 
137,  et  seq. 

Sngliahman,  Junius  calls  himself  one, 
i.92. 

Kxpulsion  from  the  House  of  Com- 
mons, on  the  right  of,  i.  1 50 ;  of 
Mr.  Wilkes,  the  question  thereupon 
stated,  175.  et  seq.;  whether  the 
expulsion  of  a  member  of  the  House 
of  Commons  creates  incapacity  of 
being  re-elected,  178,  et  seq. ;  the 
expulsion  of  Mr.  Walpole  and  his 
re-election,  how  £etr  a  case  in  point, 
t6.— 180. 

Eyre  (John),  committed  for  theft,  i. 
440,  441 ;  bailed  by  Lord  Mans- 
field, i.  440 ;  notice  of  his  case,  44 1 . 
445,  notes;  the  afiSiirs  stated  and 
examined  according  to  the  statutes, 
&c.,  447,  et  seq. ;  Lord  Camden's 
opinion  that  the  bail  was  illegal, 
466,  n.;  correspondence  between 
Junius  and  Mr.  Wilkes  on  his  case, 
ii.  102,  et  seq. ;  letter  from  one  of 
his  three  bail,  defending  Lord 
Mansfield,  ii.  885  ;  on  the  bailment 
of,  885,  386.  889.  396,  notes. 

Faithful  monitor,  letter  of  one,  to  the 
printer  of  the  '  Public  Advertiser,* 
ii.  120  ;  on  the  characters  of  Lord 
Townshend  and  his  brother,  ib. 

Falkland  Islands,  on  the  discovery 
and  history  of,  i.  316,  317 ;  great 
interest  taken  by  Junius  in  the 
parliamentary  debate  on,  ii.  xxii. ; 
prirate  letters  of  Junius  concern- 
ing, 33,  34,  and  notet ;  account 
of  the  seisure  of,  by  order  of  the 
King  of  Spain,  337,  n.;  negoti- 
ations between  the  two  countries  in 
consequence,  338. 340,  notes;  queries 
proposed  thereupon  to  the  judges, 
841 ;  protest  of  several  peers  con- 
ceming,  342,  848,  notes ;  strictures 


on  the  whole  of  this  transaction, 
337--344. 

Fiat  Justitia,  letter  of^  to  the  printer 
of  the  '  Public  Advertiser,'  ii.  182 ; 
strictures  on  the  letter  of  thanks  to 
the  commanding  officer  r>f  the  troops 
employed  in  St  iGfeorgc's  Fields,  183. 

Fitzroy  (Col.),  Lord  G.  Sackville's 
letter  to,  i.  82. 

Flood  (Henry,  M.P.  in  Ireland),  proof 
that  he  did  not  write  the  Letters  of 
Junius,  i.  79 ;  mentioned  as  one  of 
the  claimants,  ii.  xxiii. 

Foot  (Mr.),  opinion  on  the  murder  of 
Gbo.  Clarke,  i.  138,  n. 

Ford  (Mr.),  character  of,  ii.  236 ;  pa- 
rallel between  him  and  the  Earl  of 
Hillsborough,  i&. 

Fowke  (General),  ruined  by  Lord 
Harrington,  ii.  397;  state  of  the 
circumstances,  ib.  n. 

Fox  (Right  hon.  C.  J.),  we  are  in- 
debted to  him  for  the  liberty  of  the 
press,  i.  5 ;  remarks  on  his  libel 
bill,  i.  94,  n. ;  reasons  for  Junius 
sparing  the  fiunily  of,  ii.  7,  n. 

France,  influence  of,  i.  160. 164,  n. 

Francis  (Dr.),  could  not  have  been 
Junius,  ii.  xvii. ;  notices  of,  Iviii. 
lix.;  chaplain  of  Lord  Holland, 
384,  n. 

(Lady),  her  statement  respect- 
ing the  popularity  of  Junius,  ii. 
xxi.;  her  remarkable  letter  to  Lord 
Campbell  on  the  identity  of  Sir 
Philip  Francis  and  Junius,  Ixxii. ; 
subsequent  communications  with, 
on  the  subject,  Ixxiv. 

(Sir  Philip ),  remarks  on  his 


claim  to  the  authorship  of  Junius,  i. 
84 ;  identified  with  Junius,  ii.  xxv. 
53,  n.  175,  n.  324,  n.\  investiga- 
tion and  discoveries  of  Mr.  Taylor, 
xxxi.  et  seq.  xxxvii. ;  proofs  which 
he  has  adduced  to  identify  Sir  P. 
Francis  with  Junius,  xxxii.  xxxi  v. 
et  seq. ;  biographical  notices  of,  xxxii. 
xxxiii. ;  connected  with  the  War 
Office,  with  which  Junius  was  sc 
intimate,  xxxiii.  xl.;  circumstances 


432 


INDEX. 


ivhi^  led  Mr.  Taylor  to   siupect 
Sir  Philip's  identity  with  Junius, 
xxxiv. ;    expelled    from   the   War 
Office,  i&.  Ixviii.  405 ;  his  letter  to 
the  editor  of  the  '  Monthly  Maga- 
zine/ XXX  vi. ;  striking  coincidences 
between  Junius  and  Sir  P.  Francis, 
tending  to   prove   their    identity, 
xxxyiii.  xlii.  xliii.  Ixxvii.  et  seq. ; 
their  mutual  respect  for  the  Hol- 
land family,  Ix.;    neither  Junius 
nor  Sir  Philip  in  parliament,  Ixii.  ; 
their  reports  of    Lord    Chatham's 
speech  identical,   xlii.    xliii.    Ixii. 
Ixv. ;  certain  peculiarities  in  their 
spelling  and  handwriting  observa- 
ble, xliv.  xlv. ;   Lord   Brougham's 
analytical  summary  of   these    pe- 
culiarities, xliv.;  reply  to  the  va- 
rious objections  urged  against  their 
identity,  xlvi.   et  seq. ;  a  scholar, 
and  a  man  of  precocious  intellect, 
xlviii.;  his  appointment,  from  a  clerk- 
ship in  the  War  Office,  to  a  seat  at 
the  council  board  of  Calcutta,  xlix. 
Ixxx. ;  his  duel  with  Mr.  Hastings, 
and  its  causes,  1.,  420 ;  causes  of  his 
acerbity  of  spirit,  li. ;  speeches  of, 
Hi.  et  seq. ;  insult  to  the  memory  of 
Gen.  Clavering  and  Col.  Monson 
vindicated  by,  lii. ;  oratory  of,  de- 
scribed by   Mr.   Burke,  liv. ;  his 
important  sources    of  information 
identify  him  with  Junius,  Ivi. ;  his 
connection  with  Mr.  Almon,  Ixvi. ; 
lived  in  the  centre  of  intelligence 
during  the  Junius  era,  Ixvii. ;  his 
disappointment  at  not  being    ap- 
pointed    deputy    secretary-at-war, 
Ixvii.;  Mr.  Calcraft's  friendship  to, 
Ixviii. ;  reasons  for  his  anxiety  to 
get  back  his  papers  in  1787,  Ixix. ; 
had  become  a  member  of  parlia- 
ment, i&. ;  he  probably  destroyed 
the  Calcraft  papers,  ib.  Ixxvi. ;  re- 
cent and   conclusive  testimony  of 
his  identity  with  Junius,  Ixix.  et 
seq.;   reasons  for  his  not  avowing 
the  authorship  of  Junius's  Letters, 
fxxi.  Ixxv.  Izxxii. ;  remarkable  let- 


ter of  Lady  Francis,  on  his  idemity 
with  Junius,  Ixxii ;  his  luixiety  on 
the  subject  of  Junius's  Letters  pre* 
vious  to  his  death,  Ixxv.  Ixxvi. ;  the 
secret  of  his  identity  with  Junius 
made  known  to  Oeo.  III.,  Lord 
North,  and  Lord  Grenville,  Ixxix 
Ixxxi.  Ixxxiii. ;  characteristic  traits 
of  Sir  Philip,  Ixxxiv.  et  seq.;  the 
great  politico- literary  mystery 
solved,  ib. ;  a  man  of  antique  mould 
and  of  absolute  inflexibility,  Ixxxv.; 
his  Portuguese  letters  bear  a  strong 
resemblance  to  the  style  of  Junius, 
ib.  n. ;  sale  of  his  library  by  auction, 
and  particulars,  Ixxxvi.  Ixxxvii.  n, ; 
his  communication  with  Mr.  Taylor, 
Ixxxvii.  ;  his  first  impression  of 
greatness  derived  from  the  Earl  of 
Chatham,  Ixxxviii. ;  on  friendly 
terms  with  Mr.  Wilkes,  Ixxxix. ; 
Lord  Brougham's  anecdotes  of,  ib. ; 
his  impetuous  and  abrupt  manner, 
xc. 

Franklin  (Dr.),  visited  by  Lord  Chat- 
ham, ii.  Ixvi.  n. 

Freedom  of  the  press,  the  palladium 
of  English  rights,  i.  88 ;  strictures 
on,  92 — 94 ;  De  Lolme*8  remarks 
on,  101. 

Fretly  (Mr.  John),  one  of  the  names' 
given  by  Junius  for  directing  his 
letters  to,  ii.  83.  86. 

Gt.  A.,  objections  of,  to  Junius's  'State 
of  the  Question '  concerning  the  Mid- 
dlesex election,  i.  180,  et  seq. 

Game  Laws,  oppressive  to  the  subject^ 
i.  489. 

Qansel  (Major-Gfeneral),  arrest  of,  L 
15.  240.  245,  and  n. ;  rescued  firam 
the  bailiffs  by  a  corporal  and  other 
soldiers,  241;  trial  and  death  of, 
ilf,  n. ;  Junius's  reasons  for  not 
pushing  his  inquiries  against  the 
General,  ii.  284 ;  remarks  of  X.  X. 
on  his  case,  287—288;  of  Mode» 
tus,  291. 

Garrick  (Mr.),  Junius's  advice  to 
beware  of  him,  ii.  xviiL;    Jonini 


INDEX. 


433 


Knnir::  to  him,  zi. ;  admonitorj 
letter  of  Junius  to  him,  41;  threat- 
ened by  Mr.  Wilkes  if  he  per- 
formed a  particular  character,  ib. 
42,  n.;  letter  of  Mr.  Wilkes  on 
this  character,  42,  43,  notes. 

ularter,  number  of  knights  necessary 
to  constitute  a  chapter,  ii.  345. 

Garth  (Lieutenant),  declines  inter- 
ferina;  in  behalf  of  General  Gansel, 
i.  241;  and  stands  aloof  while 
another  officer  orders  out  the  king's 
guard  to  rescue  him,  Q>. ;  remarks 
on  this  conduct,  ii.  289 — 291. 

General  warrants,  declared  illegal,  i. 
135;  in  what  respects  dif^rent 
from  j9reM  warrants,  430 — 482. 

Gibbon  (Edw.),  one  of  the  claimants 
to  the  Letters  of  Junius,  ii.  xxiii. 

Gisbome  (Col.),  motives  of  Sir  Wm. 
Draper  for  resigning  his  regiment 
to  him,  i.  126;  Col.  Draper  re- 
signed it  to  him  for  his  half-pay, 
128 ;  accepts  a  pension  for  the 
government  of  Einsale,  304,  n. 

Glover  (Richard),  one  of  the  claim- 
ants to  the  Letters  of  Junius,  ii. 
xxiv. 

Good  (Dr.),  observations  on  his  essay 
prefixed  to  the  writings  of  Junius, 
i.  1. 7. 18.  58.  notes,  84  ;  his  letter 
to  Mr.  E.  H.  Barker,  84. 

Gower  (Lord),  Lord  President  of  the 
Council,  i.  1 04 ;  unduly  elected  a 
knight  of  the  garter,  ii.  345 ;  ac- 
count of  the  transaction,  ib,  n. ; 
strictures  thereon,  345,  346. 

Grafton  (Duke  of),  sarcastic  letter  of 
Lucius  to,  i.  11 ;  of  Brutus,  12; 
Janiu8*8  detestation  of,  40  ;  First 
Lord  of  the  Treasury,  104 ;  on  what 
footing  he  accepted  and  soon  after 
resigned  the  secretaryship  of  state, 
105,  and  n. ;  character  of  his 
administration,  106  ;  reasons  for 
Junius  attacking  him,  134,  135 ; 
unpopularity  of  his  administration, 
136  ;  letters  of  Junius  to  his  grace, 
187,  ei  seq, ;  the  only  act  of  mercy 
he  recommended  to  his  Majesty 

VOL   U 


disapproved,  1S8;  examination  ol 
Mac  Quirk's  afiair,  ib.,  u.  267,208, 
et  seq. ;  his  treatment  of  Wilkes,  i 
141;  one  fatal  mark  fixed  on  every 
measure  in  which  he  is  concerned, 
142;  ruins  Sir  James  Lowther's 
interest  in  Cumberland  for  ever, 
ib. ;  a  singular  instance  of  youth 
without  spirit,  143 ;  is  obliged 
either  to  abandon  a  useful  parti- 
san, or  to  protect  a  felon  firotn 
public  justice,  ib,;  requested  to 
state  for  which  of  Mr.  Wilkes's 
good  qualities  he  honoured  him 
with  his  friendship,  ib. ;  was  at  first 
scrupulous  of  even  exercising  those 
powers  with  which  the  executive 
power  of  the  legislature  is  invested, 
147 ;  charged  with  reserving  proofs 
of  his  intrepid  spirit  for  trials  of 
greater  hanrd,  148 ;  and  with  ba- 
lancing hifr  ncm-execution  of  the 
laws  with  a  breach  of  the  consti- 
tution, ib. ;  his  mistress,  Nancy  Par- 
sons, 148.  152,  notes ;  the  seating 
of  Colonel  Luttrell  in  parliament 
entails  on  posterity  the  immediate 
effects  of  his  administration,  150 ; 
remarks  on  his  grace's  conduct  in 
this  af&ir,  151 ;  base  conduct  of,  to 
his  mistress,  152,^. ;  on  the  severity 
of  Junius's  letters  to,  153;  in  his 
system  of  goTerament  he  addresses 
himself  to  the  touch,  154  ;  curious 
speculation  on  his  character,  155 ; 
its  resemblance  to  that  of  his  royal 
progenitors,  t&. ;  origin  of  his  grace's 
house,  lb.  n.;  at  the  outset  of  his 
political  career  was  a  patriot  of  no 
unpromising  expectations,  ib.;  ac- 
count of  his  grace's  introduction 
into  political  lite,  156,  n. ;  has 
many  compensations  to  make  in 
the  closet  for  his  former  friendship 
with  Mr.  Wilkes,  157 ;  his  union 
by  marriage  not  imprudent  in  a 
political  point  of  view,  t5.;  his 
public  conduct,  as  a  minister,  the 
counterpart  of  his  private  histoiy, 
158;  hia  marriage  with  the  niece 


434 


INDEX 


of  the  DueheM  of  Bedford  i.  158  ; 
effects  of  his  administratu  n,  161 ; 
immoral  conduct  of,  162  ;  the 
whole  course  of  his  life  a  strange 
endeavour  to  unite  contradictions, 
164 ;  his  insult  to  public  decorum 
at  the  Opera  House,  166,  ii.  172  ; 
always  has  some  reasons  for  de- 
serting his  friends,  i.  166  ;  his 
political  infant  state,  childhood, 
puberty,  and  manhood,  167 ;  if  his 
talents  had  kept  pace  with  the 
principles  of  his  heart  he  would 
have  become  a  most  formidable 
minister,  168 ;  the  people  find  a 
SBBOurce  in  the  weakness  of  his 
onderstanding,  170 ;  his  grace  the 
leader  of  a  submissive  administra- 
tion collected  from  the  deserters  of 
all  parties,  171 ;  wholesome  advice 
to  his  grace,  174,  175;  his  coy- 
ness in  rejecting  Mr.  Vaugban's 
proposals,  compared  to  the  terma- 
gant chastity  of  a  prude,  250 ;  is 
required  to  state  the  price  of  the 
pat^it  purchased  by  Mr.  Hine,  ib. ; 
remarks  on  the  sale  of  offices  by 
the  Duke,  251,  et  teq. ;  in  his  pub- 
lic character  has  injured  every  sub- 
ject in  the  empire,  271 ;  the  event 
of  all  the  sacrifices  he  made  to 
Lord  Bute's  patronage,  tb. ;  at  the 
most  active  period  of  life  compelled 
to  quit  the  busy  scene,  and  conceal 
himself  from  the  world,  ib. ;  resigns 
his  office  of  First  Lord  ox  the  Trea- 
sury, 271,  n.;  his  marriage  dis- 
solved, 272,  n.  ;  disregards  the 
petitions  presented  to  the  King, 
273;  situation  in  which  he  aban-i 
doned  his  royal  master,  ib.  et  seq. ; 
contented  himself  with  pronouncing 
Mr.  Luttrell's  panegyric,  304 ;  is 
restored  to  his  rank  under  the 
royal  standard,  351 ;  appointed 
Lord  Keeper  of  the  Privy  Seal,  H. 
n.;  Junius  confesses  his  great  in- 
trinsic merit,  but  cautions  him  not 
to  value  it  too  highly,  352;  in  vain 
wottld    thi»  KiDg  Iwve  sought  « 


more  (X>nsununate  character,  A. 
Junius  remembers  with  gimtitade 
how  the  Duke  accommodate^  his 
morals  to  the  necessity  of  hia  ser* 
vice,  353;  his  grace's  abundance 
of  other  merit  which  secured  the 
fiivonr  of  his  sovereign,  354  ;  that 
his  grace  never  formed  a  friendship 
which  was  not  &tal  to  the  object 
of  it,  nor  adopted  a  cause  which  he 
did  not  injure,  356 ;  his  re-appoint- 
ment  to  the  cabinet  announced  by 
the  ominous  return  of  Lord  Bute, 
857 ;  all  his  grace's  measures  cal- 
culated to  make  his  Majesty's 
government  contemptible  and  ridi- 
culous, ih.'y  that  his  grace  is  the 
pillow  upon  which  Junius  is  de 
termined  to  rest  all  his  resentmentc, 
360 ;  letter  to  the  Duke  from' 
Junius,  397  ;  to  what  enormoiu 
excesses  the  influence  of  the  crown 
has  conducted  his  grace,  without  a 
ray  of  real  understanding  or  a  sin- 
gle spark  of  resolution,  t6. ;  invec- 
tives of  Junius  against,  ih.  n,  442, 
71. ;  in  what  a  hopeful  state  he  deli- 
vered the  navy  to  his  successor,  399 ; 
a  warrant  issued  for  cutting  timbor 
in  Whittlebury  Forest,  of  which 
his  grace  is  hereditary  ranger,  400; 
his  grace's  cruel  conduct  on  this 
occasion  to  the  depiity  ranger,  ib, ; 
the  Duke  8  assertion,  that  the  pro- 
perty of  the  timber  is  vested  in  the 
ranger,  disproved,  401  ;  yet  the 
oaks  keep  their  ground,  the  King 
is  defrauded,  and  the  navy  suffers 
for  want  of  timber,  and  all  this  to 
appease  the  Duke  of  Graflon,  ib.\ 
strictures  on  the  Duke's  principles, 
ih. — 403 ;  the  story  of  the  oaks, 
addressed  to  the  public  and  to 
Junius,  408,  notes;  to  the  Dnke  of 
Grafton,  441 ;  the  mortification  of 
his  grace  on  Sir  James  Lowther's 
defeat,  t&. ;  his  expedition  in  ha** 
tening  the  grant  to  transfer  the 
Duke  of  Portland's  proptf  ty  to  Sit 
James  Lowther,  444  :  his  iifarinia- 


INDEX. 


435 


tnti  >n  reinforced  by  tae  friends  of 
the  Duke  of  Grafton,  ii.  Ivii. ;  died 
m  1811,  Ixxxii. ;  lived  almost  as 
\ong  as  Sir  Philip  Francis,  ib. ; 
remark  on  Wilkes's  letter  to, 
109 ;  portrait  of,  by  Correggio 
(Junius),  122;  iroDical  letter  to 
his  grace,  from  Pomona,  184 ;  his 
negotiation  with  Sir  J.  Amherst 
considered,  214,  215 ;  his  grace's 
ideas  of  the  proper  object  of  a 
British  peerage  examined  and  ex- 
posed, 218,  219 ;  strictures  on  his 
administration,  by  Atticus,  244. 
254 — 257;  notice  of  his  political 
life,  244—246;  he  rose  by  Mr. 
Wilkes's  popularity,  and  will  pro- 
iBably  Ml  by  it,  257 ;  the  charges  of 
Junius  against  the  Duke  contrasted 
with  the  answers  of  his  grace's 
defenders,  270 ;  the  scurrilous  lan- 
guage and  conduct  of  his  grace's 
hireling  writers,  exposed  by  Augur, 
276,  277 ;  letter  to  his  grace,  bv 
A.  B.,  277;  the  facility  with  which 
the  Duke  abandoned  his  early  con- 
nections in  friendship  and  politics  a 
recommendation  at  court,  %b.  278 ; 
his  conduct  towards  the  Duke  of 
Rutland,  in  nominating  justices, 
exposed,  278,  279;  vindicated  by 
Messala,  280,  281 ;  his  grace's 
conduct,  while  in  power,  examined 
and  exposed,  812.  314;  specimen 
of  his  oratorical  talents,  315 ;  in- 
fluence of,  414. 

ranby  (Lord),  character  of,  i.  13, 
and  ii.  249 ;  Master- General  of  the 
Ordnance,  i.  104 ;  charged  with  ac- 
cnmulating  lucrative  employments 
in  his  own  person  and  &mi]y,  109 ; 
his  cares  chiefly  confined  to  the 
filling  up  of  commissions,  110  ; 
character  of,  ib.  n. ;  is  commended 
and  vindicated  by  Sir  William 
Draper  against  the  charges  of 
Junius,  112 — 116;  further  le- 
marks  on,  by  Junius,  ib.  121 ; 
illastrations  of  his  character  as  a 
man.  as  a  soldier,   and  as  a  ge- 


neral, 122,  128;  popularity  of, 
127,  n. ;  requests  Sir  William 
Draper  to  desist  from  his  defence, 
132,  n. ;  remarks  on  his  character, 
ib. ;  portrait  of,  by  Correggio  (Ju- 
nius), ii.  123  ;  letter  to  him  by 
(the  same)  a  real  friend,  265 ;  his 
lordship's  former  and  present  cha- 
racter contrasted,  265,  266 ;  poli- 
tical anecdotes  of,  266,  267,  n, 

Grattan  (Henry)  one  of  the  claimants 
to  the  Letters  of  Junius,  ii.  xxiv. 

Greatrakes  (Wm.),  one  of  the  claim- 
ants to  the  Letters  of  Junius,  ii. 
xxiii. ;  notices  of,  ib.  n. 

Grenville  (George),  the  Whig  party 
broken  up  by  his  death,  i.  31, 
350 ;  a  favourite  of  Junius,  45,  n. ; 
at  any  rate  to  be  distressed  because 
he  was  a  minister,  107 ;  his  admi- 
nistration the  authors  of  the  Stamp 
Act,  158,  n. ;  account  of  his  politi- 
cal career,  172,  n. ;  vindicated 
from  some  reflections  against  him, 
in  a  pamphlet  written  in  defence  of 
Sir  Wm.*  Black  stone,  186,  ei  seq.; 
first  commences  the  opposition  to 
Wilkes,  187,  n. ;  anecdote  of,  ib. ; 
chastised  by  the  Speaker  of  the 
House  of  Commons,  191;  biogra- 
phical notices  of,  ii.  .197,  198,  n. ; 
concurred  in  forming  the  Stamp  Act 
and  opposing  its  repeal,  199 ;  letter 
from  him  to  Mr.  Enox,  200,  n.; 
letter  to  him  from  Junius,  259; 
the  peculiar  advantages  resulting 
from  his  integrity  and  influence 
pointed  out,  ib.  261 ;  high  cha- 
racter of  him,  by  Mr.  Knox, 
261—263,  notes;  election  bill  of, 
263,  n. ;  his  act  for  regulating 
contested  elections  evaded,  317 ; 
merit  as  a  financier,  414. 

— (Jame8),one  of  the  claimants 

to  the  authorship  of  Junius,  ii.  xxiii. 

Grenvilles,  family  of  the,  ii.  xxiii. 

Grey  (Mr.  De,  afterwards  Lord  Wal- 
singham),  attorney-general,  i.  104. . 

Grosvenor  cauie,  remarks  on,  ii 
829—331. 

F  F  2 


436 


INDEX. 


Eamifton  (W.  G.),  notice  of,  i.  56,  n. ; 
proTed  not  to  be  the  writer  of  Ju- 
nius's  Letters,  tb.  iL  xv. ;  one  of 
the  claimants  to,  xxiii. ;  examina- 
tion of  Mr.  Malone*8  evidence  on, 
58,  et  seq. 

Barley  (Mr.),  the  government  of  the 
city  said  to  be  committed  to  him, 
i.  358. 

Hartford  (Lord),  remarks  on  his  po- 
litical conduct,  ii.  294,  295. 

Hastings  (Mr.),  his  duel  with  Sir 
Philip  Francis,  and  its  causes,  ii. 
1.,  420. 

Harvey  (Adjutant-Geneial),  character 
of,  i.  115. 

Hawke  (Sir  Edward),  First  Lord  of 
the  Admiralty,  L  104;  the  country 
highly  indebted  to  him,  110 ;  re- 
marks on  his  political  career,  ii. 
298,  294;  his  resignation  con- 
sidered, 381. 

Henricus,  letter  o^  to  Lord  Suffolk, 
on  his  conduct,  ii.  368 ;  his  lord- 
ship the  first  man  who  avowed 
himself  to  act  without  principle, 
375;  his  political  tergiversation, 
ib,  376—879 ;  letter  to  Lord  Suf- 
folk, 379 ;  his  lordship's  resigna- 
tion a  pledge  of  his  delicacy,  if  not 
of  his  integrity,  ib. ;  strictures  on 
the  situation  into  which  his  lord- 
ship brought  himself,  380,  381. 

Heron's  edition  of  the  Letters  of 
Junius,  i.  46,  n. ;  his  admiration 
of  the  writings  of  Junius,  128, 
129,  n. ;  his  notices  of  Lord  Hol- 
land, ii.  Iviii. 

Hertford  (Lord),  indigent  family  of, 
ii.  294 ;  conduct  of,  414. 

Hillsborough  (Earl  lof),  notices  of  his 
political  life,  i.  10,  11;  ii.  247; 
is  appointed  to  govern  the  colonies 
of  America,  104.^108;  strictures 
on  his  administration,  104.  112; 
origin  of  the  office  to  which  he  was 
appointed,  t5.  n. ;  letter  to  Mr. 
Wood&ll,  ii.  20;  his  conduct  to- 
wards Sir  J.  Amherst  considered, 
201,  202.  20^—208*   letters  of 


Lucius  to  him  on  the  same  raliieeC; 
210—213.  216—220;  letter  of  lus 
lordship  to  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst, 
216,  217,  218,  n. ;  reply  of  A.  B. 
thereto,  n, ;  other  letters  of  Lncini 
on  his  lordship's  conduct  to  Sir  J. 
Amherst,  225 — 238;  ironical  en- 
comium on  Lord  H.,  241, 242;  list 
of  his  abusive  epithets  b^towed  on 
Junius,  235 ;  strictures  on  hia  cha- 
racter, 247. 

Hinchliffe  (Dr.),  his  oration  in  praise 
of  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  i  157. 

Hine  (Mr.),  history  of  his  purchase 
of  a  patent,  ii.  25,  26,  and  the  price 
at  which  it  was  knocked  down,  i. 
249.  251. 

History,  certain  questions  of,  no  longer 
of  interest,  iL  xii. ;  fabulous  era  of, 
XXX.;  chapters  of  materials  for, 
316—320. 

Holbume  (Adm.),  his  services  in 
America  notic^,  ii.  294. 

Holland  (Lord),  &voured  by  Junius, 
L  45 ;  ii.  xl.  7.  384 ;  petition  against 
his  embezzling  public  money,  by 
the  city  of  London,  ib. — 9;  his 
letter  to  the  Lord  Mayor,  9 ;  rep|y 
of  the  Mayor,  9,  10;  answer  oi 
Lord  Holland,  ib. ;  editor's  observa* 
tions  on  his  accounts,  as  Paymaster^ 
General,  11 — 13;  memorial  of  his 
lordship,  for  longer  time  to  make 
up  Jiis  accounts,  13 ;  his  Majesty's 
warrant  to  stay  process  against  hjm 
for  six  months,  tft. 

HoUis  (James),  one  of  the  claimants 
to  the  Letters  of  Junius,  ii.  xxiv. 

Holt  (Lord  Chief  Justice),  spirited 
conduct  of,  in  resisting  an  order  oi 
the  House  of  Commons,  ii.  891,  «. 

Home  (Rev.  Mr.),  Junios's  corre- 
spondence with,  i.  52;  his  iin« 
fortunate  endeavours  in  support  of 
the  nomination  of  sheriflb,  359; 
in  his  principles  already  a  bishop, 
360;  his  letter  to  Junius,  361; 
the  reputation  gained  under  this 
signature  draws  firom  him  a  reply^ 
ib.;  he  pro£esset  bis  readiness  lo 


INDEX. 


43 


lay  loun  hift  life  in.  opposition  to 
miiiisterial  measures^  t^. ;  that  he 
did  not  solicit  one  TOte  in  &vour 
of  Messrs.  Plumber  and  Eirk- 
man,  t6. ;  letter  to  him  from  Whip- 
cord, 862,  363,  n. ;  letter  to  him 
from  Junius,  364;  accused  of  hav- 
ing sold  himself  to  the  ministry, 
from  his  own  letters,  ib, ;  his  mode 
of  attack  on  Mr.  Wilkes  censured, 
»&. ;  particulars  of  his  dispute  with 
Mr.  Wilkes,  865,  notes;  is  cen- 
sured for  improperly  introducing 
a  lady's  name  into  the  papers,  871 ; 
duped  Mr.  Oliver,  871;  another 
letter  to  Junius,  872 ;  charges  him 
with  insufficiency  and  self-contra- 
diction, ib.;  extract  from  one  of 
his  letters  to  Mr.  Wilkes,  relative 
to  their  dispute,  874 — 876,  n,; 
feels  no  reluctance  to  attack  the 
character  of  any  man,  t&. ;  that  the 
darkness  in  which  Junius  thinks 
himself  shrouded  has  not  concealed 
him,  878;  reflections  on  the  ten- 
dency of  Junius's  principles,  879, 
gt  teq. ;  that  Mr.  Wilkes  did  com- 
mission Mr.  Walpole  to  solicit  a 
pension  for  him,  882 ;  that,  accord- 
ing to  Junius,  Mr.  Wilkes  ought  to 
cold  the  strings  of  his  benefactors' 
purses,  so  long  as  he  continues  to 
be  a  thorn  in  the  King's  side,  888 ; 
that  the  leaders  of  the  opposition 
refused  to  stipulate  certain  points 
for  the  public,  in  case  they  should 
get  into  administration,  884;  Ju- 
nius's principles  will  suit  no  form 
of  government,  386 ;  is  charged  by 
Junius  with  changing  the  terms  of 
the  proposition,  and  supposing  him 
to  assert  that  it  would  be  impossible 
for  any  man  to  write  in  the  news- 
papers and  not  be  discovered,  888 ; 
Junius  allows  him  a  degree  of 
merit  that  aggravates  his  guilt, 
3S9;  his  furious  persecuting  seal 
joflened  into  moderation,  ib, ;  tbit 
it  is  shameful  for  him  who  has  li?ed 
lu  friendship  v/ith  Mr.  Wilkei  to 


reproach  him  with  failings  naturally 
connected  with  despair,  392;  a 
£arewell  epistle  from  Mr.  Home  to 
Junius,  896 ;  noticed  as  one  of  the 
claimants  to  Junius's  Letters,  ii. 
xxiv. ;  letter  to  Mr.  Onslow,  charg- 
ing him  with  corruption,  17 — 
19;  is  prosecuted  by  the  latter, 
who  is  nonsuited,  20 ;  Junius's  pri- 
vate  opinion  on  this  af!air,  21. 

Howe  (Lord),  Treasurer  of  the  Navy, 
i.  104. 

Hume  (David),  Colonel  Barry's  letters 
to,  ii.  418,  419. 

Humphrey  (Mr.),  horsewhips  the 
Dvkt  of  Bedford,  i.  214,^.     c^ 

Impressing  seamen.     See  Seamen. 

Influence  (undue)  of  the  crown,  how 
produced,  i.  89.  98,  99 ;  S|ottish, 
remarks  on,  265. 

Innocent  reader,  letter  of,  to  the  prin- 
ter of  the  'Public  Advertiser,'  ii. 
883. 

Inquisitio  post  mortem,  explanation 
of  the  term,  i.  140,  lil,  n. 

Insomnis,  letter  of,  on  the  new  com- 
mission of  the  Board  of  Trade,  ii. 
187—189;  reply  to,  by  C,  189— 
191. 

Intellect,  instances  of  early  indications 
of,ii.  zlviii.;  enfeebled  by  age,  xlix. 

Ireland,  people  of,  uniformly  oppressed, 
i  263;  parliaments  of,  made  oc- 
tennial, 298,  and  n. ;  satirical  ac- 
count of  a  grand  council  convened 
on  the  affidrs  of  Ireland,  ii.  128,  et 
seq. 

Ireland  (Mr.),  avows  the  Shakespeare 
forgeries,  ii.  xii 

Imham  (Lord),  anecdotes  of,  i.  448  ; 
depravity  of,  ib.  n, ;  the  fitther  of 
Col.  Luttrell,  ib.  n.;  his  daughter 
married  to  the  Duke  ef  Cumberhmd, 
ii.  387 ;  afterwards  Barl  U  Car- 
hampton,  889,  n. 

Jackson  (Mi.),  asserts  that  he  saw 
Junius  thrc  v  a  letter  into  the  oifics 
door,  i.  24, 


438 


INDSZ. 


Tesuitg,  books  of,  publicly  burnt  at 
Parit,  ii.  175,  n.;  account  of  the 
books  burnt,  176. 

Jones  (Bir  Wm.),  one  of  tbe  claimants 
to  the  Letters  of  Jnnins,  ii.  zziv. 

Johnson  (Dr.),  extract  from  his 
'Thoughts  on  Falkland's  Islands,' 
i.  325. 

Judge,  a,  may  be  honest  enough  in  de- 
ciding private  causes,  yet  a  traitor 
to  the  public,  i.  110. 

Junia,  letter  of,  to  the  printer  of  the 
'Public  AdTertiser,'  ii.  272;  cha- 
racter of,  and  conjectures  on,  Ju- 
nius, a, — 274 ;  reply  of  Junius  to 
her,  2T5. 

Juniper,  letter  of,  in  yindication  of 
Junius,  ii.  890,  and  n, 

JUNIUS'S  LETTERS,  Dr.  Masoh 
Good's  pbeliminabt  Essat  on,  i. 
1,  et  teq. ;  state  of  Europe  and  of 
parties  at  home,  during  the  period 
comprised  in  these  letters,  ii>. ;  re- 
marks explanatory  of  his  writings, 
1.  7. 18. 46.48.  84.  152.303,71o<m; 
discontents  in  the  American  colo- 
nies, 2;  character  of,  and  effects 
produced  by,  the  letters  of  Junius, 
8 — 18 ;  proofs  that  the  persons 
hitherto  supposed  to  hare  written 
these  letters  are  not  the  authors  of 
them,  6,  7,  notes  ;  conrersation  re- 
specting, between  Mr.  Campbell 
and  Mr.  Wood£all,  i.  6,  n. ;  reasons 
for  the  present  publication,  7,  8,  9 ; 
account  of  the  different  signatures 
under  which  Junius  wrote,  and  the 
reasons  thereof,  with  extracts,  7,  8, 
et  teq. ;  brief  characters  of  Sir  Wm. 
Draper  and  the  Marquis  of  Qranby, 
13, 14;  general  account  of  the  sub- 
jects discussed  by  Junius,  14,  et  seq.; 
the  private  situation  and  circum- 
stances of  Juniu8,16, 17, 18. 24 — 29, 
et  teq.;  proofs  of  his  intimate  ac- 
quaintance with  everything  con- 
nected with  the  court,  19 — 21 ;  his 
secret  intelligence  respecting  public 
events,  20;  private  signals  between 
Junius  and  his  printer,  22;  their 


private  correspond  ence,  23 ;  attenipli 
made  to  discover  Junius  bj  various 
persons,  24, 25 ;  remarks  on  Junios's 
last  letter  to  Lord  Camden,  27, 28; 
moral  character  of  Junius,  30.  36 — 
88;  account  of  the  first  gennins 
edition  of  Junius,  32 — 36 ;  Jnnins's 
counsel  to  Mr.  WoodEall,  on  his 
prosecution,  88,  39 ;  political  princi- 
ples of  Junius  considered,  tb.  et  teq. ; 
his  hatred  of  Lord  Bute,  40;  of  tiie 
Duke  of  Ghrafton,  41 ;  and  of  Lord 
Barrington,  42 ;  proofs  that  Junius 
was  no  party  man,  44;  rdigious 
opinions  of  Junius,  46,  47;  know- 
ledge and  rank  of  Junius,  48;  re- 
marks on  his  style,  50 — 54;  and 
knowledge  of  the  language,  laws, 
constitution,  and  history  of  his 
country,  54,  55 ;  Examiitatioh  of 

THB  OLAIKS  MADE  TO  THE  AUTHOB- 

SHip,  %b.  et  seq, — Lloyd,  Roberts, 
Dyer,  55,  56;  Hamilton,  56.  60; 
Burke,  57,  58;  Bishop  Butler,  60; 
Eosenhagen,  61 ;  GFen.  Lee,  61,  et 
seq.;  Wilkes,  67;  Boyd,  67—78; 
Maclean,  78;  Dunning,  79;  Flood,  ' 
ib,;  Loxd  George  Sackville,  81.         | 

JiTNiiTS,  Public  Lettbbs  of. — 
Remarks  on  his  *  Dedication  to  the 
English  Nation,'  i.  85,  86 ;  Junius 
dedicates  his  letters  to  the  people  of 
England,  87 ;  motives  for,i6. ;  was 
not  the  sole  depositary  of  his  own 
secret,  ib.  and  n, ;  his  prefiice,  91; 
his  motives  for  publishing  his  let- 
ters, ib. ;  remarks  on  his  '  Prefitce,' 
»5.  n. ;  Junius  not  a  lawyer,  i.  92. 
165,  ii.  xiv.  90,  91 ;  examination 
of  Lord  Mansfield's  curious  doctrine 
of  libels,  94 — 98 ;  letter  from,  to 
the  printer  of  the  '  Public  Advor- 
tiser,'  on  the  state  of  the  nation,  ' 
and  the  different  departments  oi 
the  state,  103  ;  letter  to  Sir  Wil- 
liam Draper,  116;  commends  Sir 
William  D.'s  giving  his  name  to 
the  public,  but  asserts  it  to  have 
been  nothing  but  spirit,  117;  re- 
quires instances  of  Lcrd  Gmnbf*! 


INDEX 


439 


military  skill,  llb^  prcposes  sun-| 
dry  queries  to  Sir  "William,  120 ; 
eharacter  of,  120 ;  is  called  upon  by 
Sir  William  to  give  his  real  name, 
122 :  another  letter  to  Sir  William 
Draper,    126;    explains  Sir   Wil- 
liam's bargain  with   Colonel  Gis- 
bome,  127,  128  j  Heron's  admira- 
tion of  his  writings,  128, 130,  n, ; 
reply  to  Sir  William  Draper,  129  j 
declares  himself  to  be  a  plain,  un- 
lettered man,  130 ;  calls  upon  Sir 
William  to  justify  the  declaration 
of  the  sovereign  in  having  done  an 
^t  in  his  favour  contrary  to  law, 
131 ;  takes  his  leave  of  Sir  Wil- 
liam, tb. ;  Sir  William  Diaper  re- 
Hnquishes     all    personal     enmity 
against  Junius,   132,  n. ;  his  rea- 
sons   for  attacking    the   Duke  of 
Grafton,  134, 135;  observations  on 
his  letters  respecting  the  pardon  of 
Mac  Quirk,  136, 137  ;  letter  to  the 
Duke  of  Grafton,   137 ;   the  only 
act  of  mercy  to  which  the  Duke  ad- 
vised his  Majesty,  meets  with  dis> 
approbation,  138 ;  that  it  was  ha- 
zarding too  much,  to  interpose  the 
strength  of  prerogative  between  such 
a  felon  as  Mac  Quirk  and  the  jus- 
tice of  his  country,  ib.;  the  pardon- 
ing of  Mac  Quirk,  and  the  reasons 
assigned  for  it,  considered,  139,  et 
seq. ;  to  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  141; 
that  one  £|tal  mark  seems  to  be 
fixed  on  every  measure  of  his  grace, 
whether  in  a  personal  or  political 
character,  142;  that  a  certain  mi- 
nisterial writer  does  not  defend  the 
minister,  as  to  the  pardoning  of  Mac 
Quirk,  on  his  own  principles,  142, 
143 ;  that  his  grace  can  best  tell 
for  which  of  Mr.  Wilke's  good  qua- 
lities he  first  honoured  him  with  his 
friendship,  143 ;   to  Mr.  Edward 
Weston,  144 ;  quotes  firom  his  sup- 
posed pamphlet,  with  remarks,  146; 
to  the  Duke  of  Grafton.  147 ;  that 
his  grace  was  at  first  scrupulous  of 
•veil  exercising  those  powers  with 


which  the  executive  power  of  tht 
legislature  is  invested,  ib. ;  that  he 
reserved  the  proofs  of  his  intrepid 
spirit  for  tnals  of  greater  hazard, 
and  balanced  the  non-execution  ol 
the  laws  with  a  breach  of  the  con- 
stitution,  149;    to  the   Duke  of 
Ghafton,  1 53 ;  on  the  severity  of 
his  letter  to  the  Duke  of  Grafton, 
153.  218,  219.  239,  Tiotes;    that 
his  grace  addresses  himself  simply 
to  the  touch,  154  ;  speculates  upon 
his    grace's    character,    ib. ;     his 
grace's  character  resembles  that  of 
his  royal  ancestors,  155;  details 
the  progress  of  the  Duke's  political 
career,  ib.  1 57,  et  seq. ;  to  the  Duke 
of  Grafton,  168 ;  if  his  talents  could 
keep  pace  with  the  principles  of 
his  heart,  he  would  have  become  a 
most  formidable  minister,  ib. ;  that 
he  became  the  leader  of  an  admi- 
nistration, gradually  collected  firom 
the  deserters  of  all  parties,  inte- 
rests, and  connections,  1 72  ;  to  the 
printer    of    the    *  Public   Adver- 
tiser,* 175  ;  attempts  to  state  with 
justice  and  precision  the  question 
arising  from  Mr.  Wilkes's  expul- 
sion, and  the  appointment  of  Mr. 
Luttrell,  ib. ;  Mr.  Walpole's  expul- 
sion considered,  and   the  case  of 
his  re-election,  how  far  in  point, 
178—180;  to  Sir  William  Black- 
stone,  185  ;  a  certain  pamphlet  in 
vindication    of  his    conduct,  con- 
sidered,  186 ;    Mr.  Grenville  and 
Sir  Wm.  Meredith,  defended  from 
some  aspersions  in  this  pamphlet, 
187,   et   seq.;    to   the    printer  of 
the  •  Public  Advertiser,*  197;  that 
the  author  of  a  certain  pamphlet, 
in  defence  of  the  proceedings  rela- 
tive   to    the   Middlesex   election, 
quotes    only  such   parts    of  Mr. 
Walpole*s  case  as  seemed  adapted 
to  his  purpose,  tb. ;  that  the  House 
of  Commons  meant  to  declare  that 
Mr.    Walpole's    incapacity    arost 
from  the  crimes  he  had  co)umitte<^ 


440 


INDEX. 


198,  199;  they  also  declared  the 
other  candidate  not  duly  elected, 
ih. ;  explains  some  passages  in  his 
last  letter,  204;  to  the  Duke  of 
Bedford,  210;  causes  of  his  grace's 
unpopularity,  ib.  n.;  that  he  has 
lost  much  of  his  authority  and  im- 
portance, 21Z,  etieq. ;  importance  of 
his  mission  to  Versailles,  214;  those 
who  are  acquainted  with  his  grace's 
pecuniary  character,  suspect  that 
such  sacrifices  would  not  have  been 
made  without  some  private  com- 
pensations, 215;   stipulations  made 
between  him  and  Lord  Bute,  and 
violated,  i&.;  the  measures  he  took 
to  obtain  and  confirm  his  power 
considered,  216 — 218  ;     his  inti- 
mate   knowledge    of    the    court, 
216.  314,  316;    to    Sir  William 
Draper,  221;  that    after  attack- 
ing   Junius    under    that    charac- 
ter, he  had  no  right  to  know  him 
under  any  other,   222;  that   Sir 
William  was  appointed  colonel  of 
a  regiment  greatly  out  of  his  turn, 
ib. ;  Junius  does  not  think  it  neces- 
sary he  should  be  exposed  to  the 
resentment  of  the  worst  and  most 
powerful  men  in  the  country,  223 ; 
to  the  printer  of  the  '  Public  Ad- 
vertiser,' 228;    Sir  William   still 
continues     a    fatal     friend,     ib.; 
the  Duke  of  Bedford's  liberality 
stated,   229,  230;  to  the  printer 
of  the    'Public  Advertiser,'  234; 
applauds  the  spirit  with  which  a 
lady  has  paid  the  debt  of  gratitude 
to  her  benefactor,  t&. ;  this  single 
act  of  benevolence  the  more  con- 
spicuous from   standing  alone,  ib. 
235;  to  the  printer  of  the  'Public 
Advertiser,'    239;      the    present 
ministry  as  singularly  marked  by 
their  fortune  as  their  crimes,  ib.; 
and  seem  determined  to  perplex 
us   with   the  multitude  of   their 
offences,  240;  a  major-general  of 
the  army  arrested  for  a  consider- 
able debty  and  rescued  bj  a  sex- 


jean  t  and  some  private  aoldien» 
ib. ;  that  this  is  a  wound  given  to 
the  law,  and  no  remedy  has  been 
applied,  242 ;  the  main  question  is, 
how  the  ministry  have    acted  on 
this  occasion,  ib.;  the  aggravating 
circumstances  of  this  afilair  stated, 
ib. ;  that  the  regiments  of  Gnaids, 
as  a  corps,  are  neither  good  soldiers 
nor  good   subjects,   243;   reasons 
for  thinking  him  a  soldier,  i.  242, 
243.  325.  329,  330.  431 ;   ii.  119. 
120.  203.  211.  265.  267;  that  the 
marching  regiments  are  the  best 
troops  in  the  world,  L  243 ;  Junius 
vindicates  himself  from  the  charge 
of  inflaming  the  minds  of  the  peo- 
ple. 244;   to  the    printer  of  the 
'Public  Advertiser,'  248;   admits 
the  claim  of  Modestus  in  the  '  Ga- 
zetteer,' ib. ;  that  Modestus  having 
insinuated  that  the  offenders  in  the 
rescue  may  still    be    brought    to 
trial,  any  attempt  to  prejudge  the 
cause  would   be  highly  improper, 
ib.;  that  if  the  gentlemen  whose 
conduct    is    in    question    be    not 
brought  to  trial,  the  Duke  of  Gxaf- 
ton  shall   hear    from  him   again, 
249 ;  leaves  it  to  his  countrymen 
to  determine  by  what  motives  he 
is  animated,  ib.;  to   the  Duke  of 
G-rafton,  ib.;    he  gives   the  Duke 
credit  for  his  discretion  in  refusing 
Mr.    Vaughan's    proposfUs,    250; 
inquires  the   price  of  Mr.  EUne's 
patent,  ib. ;  and  whether  his  grace 
dares  to  complain  of  an  attack  upon 
his  own  honour  while  he  is  selling 
the  fiivours  of  the  Crown,  ib. ;  to 
the  Duke  of  Grafton,  tb.;  is  sur- 
prised at  the  silence  of  his  grace's 
friends  to  the  charge  of  having  sold 
a  patent  place,  251;  the  price  at 
which  it  was  knocked  down,  ib. ; 
none    of  his  grace's  firiends   are 
bold  enough  to  deny  this  chaige, 
252  ;     that   Mr.  Vaughan's  offer 
amounted  to  a  high  misdemeanor, 
258;  to  the  printer  of  the  '  FttUk 


IKDEX. 


441 


Aivertiser/  256 ;  Junius  supposen 
ft  well-intentioned  prince  asking 
advice  for  the  happiness  of  his  sub- 
jects, lb, ;  and  in  what  terms  an 
honest  man,  if  permitted  to  ap- 
proach his  sovereign,  would  ad- 
dress him,  ih.;  separates  the  ami- 
able prince  from  the  folly  and 
treachery  of  his  servants,  257 ; 
that  the  King  should  distinguish 
between  his  own  dignity  and  what 
Aerves  only  to  promote  the  interest 
and  ambition  of  a  minister,  ih.; 
that  he  should  withdraw  his  con- 
fidence from  all  parties,  and  con- 
sult only  his  own  understanding, 
258 ;  that  there  is  an  original  bias 
in  his  education,  259;  that  a  little 
personal  motive  was  sufficient  to 
displace  the  ablest  advocates  of  the 
crown,  Hf. ;  that  Mr.  Wilkes,  when 
he  attacked  the  favourite,  was  un- 
worthy of  a  king's  royal  resent- 
ment, 260 ;  that  the  destruction  of 
one  man  was,  for  many  years,  the 
sole  object  of  government,  ib. ;  that 
his  ministers  have  forced  the  sub- 
jects, from  wishing  well  to  the 
cause  of  one  man,  to  unite  with 
him  in  their  own,  261 ;  that  no- 
thing but  the  repeal  of  a  certain 
resolution  can  heal  the  wound 
given  to  the  constitution,  ib;  his 
dislike  to  Scotchmen,  264. 271. 307. 
331,  ii.  xiv.,  though  he  calls  himself 
one,  ii.  406 ;  that  it  is  in  vain  for  the 
King  to  look  for  assistance  either 
from  Ireland  or  from  the  colonies,  i. 
264 ;  that  the  King  takes  the  sense 
of  the  army  from  the  conduct  of  the 
Guards,  as  he  does  that  of  the  peo- 
ple from  the  representations  of  the 
ministry,  265 ;  that  the  House  of 
Commons  have  attributed  to  their 
own  70te  an  authority  equal  to  an 
act  of  the  legislature,  267 ;  recom- 
mends to  the  King  a  line  of  con- 
duct towards  Mr.  Wilkes,  ib,  et  *eq. ; 
remarks  on  his  letter  to  the  King, 
270;    pmseeations  lor,  255.  SOfty 


306,  notes;  to  the  Duke  of  Gmf* 
ton,  270;  in  his  public  charactez 
he  has  injured  every  subject  in  the 
empire,  271;  at  the  most  active 
period  of  life  he  must  quit  the  busy 
scene,  and  conceal  himself  from 
the  world,  272;  the  situation  in 
which  he  abandoned  the  King,  275; 
that  he  either  differed  from  his 
colleagues,  or  thought  the  admi- 
nistration no  longer  tenable,  ib,; 
that  he  began  with  betraying  the 
people,  and  concluded  with  be- 
traying the  King,  ib.;  vindicates 
Mr.  Yaughan,  as  a  much  injured 
man,  277;  takes  his  leave  of  the 
Duke  of  Grafton,  ib. ;  to  the  printer 
of  the  *  Public  Advertiser,*  279  ; 
the  King's  answer  to  the  City  re- 
monstrance considered,  ib. — 280; 
the  grievances  of  the  people  as^gra- 
vated  by  insults,  ib, ;  the  City  of 
London  have  set  an  example 
worthy  to  be  followed  by  the  whole 
kingdom,  281;  if  any  part  of  the 
representative  body  be  not  chosen 
by  the  people,  that  part  vitiates 
and  corrupts  the  whole,  282 ;  in- 
stead of  answering  the  City's  peti- 
tion, bis  Majesty  pronounces  his 
own  panegyric,  ib.;  whether  the 
remonstrance  be  or  be  not  injurious 
to  Parliament,  is  the  very  question 
between  Parliament  and  the  people, 
ib.;  the  City  of  London  has  not 
desired  the  King  to  assume  a 
power  placed  in  other  hands,  284 ; 
they  cidl  upon  him  to  make  use  oif 
his  lawfid  prerogative,  i6. ;  to  the 
printer  of  the  *  Public  Adver- 
tiser,' ib. ;  that  the  King's  answer 
to  the  City  of  London  is  only  the 
sentiment  of  the  minister,  285; 
the  consequences  of  which,  how- 
ever, materially  affisct  his  Majesty's 
honour,  ib.;  who  should  never  ap- 
pear but  in  an  amiable  light  to  his 
subjects,  286 ;  an  appeal  to  his  Ma- 
jesty's judgment,  289 ;  addresses 
froiD  Parliament  considered  at   a 


442 


INDfJC 


ftahionable  uumeaning  formality, 
290 ;  their  consequences  considered, 
when  supposed  to  mean  what  they 
profess,  ih.  291 ;  to  the  printer  of 
the  'Public  Advertiser/  ih.;  while 
Parliament  was  sitting,  it  would 
have  been  neither  safe  nor  regular 
to  have  oifered  any  opinion  on 
their  proceedings,  ih. ;  remarks  on 
his  retrospect  of  the  parliamen- 
tary session,  291,  292,  notes;  we 
had  a  right  to  expect  something 
from  their  prudence,  and  some- 
thing from  their  fears,  292;  the 
majority  of  the  House  of  Lords  join 
with  the  other  House,  295;  they 
would  hardly  have  yielded  so  much 
to  the  other  House,  without  the 
certainty  of  a  compensation,  296 ; 
they  did  not  vindicate  their  own 
dignity  when  grossly  attacked,  297 ; 
strictures  on  the  business  of  the 
session  after  voting  the  supplies, 
298,  et  seq.'f  the  King^s  situation 
after  proroguing  the  Parliament, 
800;  to  Lord  North,  803;  the  ho- 
nour of  rewarding  Mr.  Luttrell's 
•ervices  reserved  for  Ids  lordship, 
ib. ;  whom  he  calls  upon,  to  tell  the 
country  who  advised  the  King  to 
appoint  C<^onel  Luttrell  adjutant- 
general  to  the  army  of  Ireland,  304 ; 
to  Lord  Mansfield,  305 ;  danger  of 
writing  to  his  lordship,  who  is  both 
judge  and  party,  306 ;  remarks  on 
his  letter  to,  %b.  n.;  tribute  paid 
to  his  Scotch  sincerity,  807  ;  anec- 
dotes of  his  lordship,  ib.  n. ;  that 
his  lordship  consoles  himself  for  the 
loss  of  a  favourite  family,  by  re- 
viving the  maxims  of  their  govon* 
ment,  308 ;  his  maxims  of  juris- 
prudence direct  his  interpretatiot: 
of  the  law,  and  the  treatment  of 
juries,  ib. ;  that  the  Court  of  King's 
Bench  thereby  becomes  a  court  of 
eqnity,  309;  his  conduct  with  re- 
gard to  Bingley*!  affiur,  810,  and 
». ;  charges  his  lordship  with  in- 
vading the  province  of  the  jury,  in 


matters  a  libel,  811 ;  his  lordsliip's 
charge  to  the  jury,  in  the  pnMc- 
cution  of  Almon  and  Wood£U^  con- 
tradicted the  highest  legal  authori- 
ties, 312 ;  that  he  ordered  a  special 
juryman  to  be  set  aside,  withou) 
any  legal  objection,  813;  is  aocnsed 
of  having  done  great  mischief  to 
this  country  as  a  minister,  ib,  314 ; 
to  the  printer  of  the '  Public  Adver- 
tiser, 816;  violence  and  treachenr 
at  home  supported  by  treachery  and 
submission  abroad,  817;  the  expe- 
dition of  the  Spaniards  against  Port 
Egmont,  318 ;  his  Majesty's  ship 
detained  in  port  above  twenty  days, 
ib,  ;  the  King's  speech,  Nov.  1770, 
considered,  819 ;  if  the  actual  situ- 
ation of  Europe  be  considered,  when 
the  a&ir  of  Port  Egmont  happened, 
the  treachery  of  the  King's  servants 
will  appear  in  the  strongest  colours, 
821 ;  a  most  fiivourable  opportunity 
is  lost,  ib. ;  the  ai&ir  of  Port  Eg- 
mont affords  materials  for  a  fable, 
822;  to  the  printer  of  the  *  Public 
Advertiser,'  330 ;  we  have  nothing 
to  apprehend  from  prerogative,  but 
much  from  undue  influence,  382; 
our  political  climate,  severely  al- 
tered, 833 ;  the  nature  and  origin 
of  privileges  traced  and  considered, 
»6.  et  seq. ;  his  remarks  on  the  as- 
sumed privileges  of  the  House  ot 
Commons,  347,  848 ;  to  the  Duke 
of  Grafton,  351 ;  observations  on  his 
invectives  against  the  Duke  of 
Grafton,  351.  397.  442,  notes;  that 
the  King  would  in  vain  have  looked 
round  the  kingdom  for  a  character 
so  consunmiate  as  that  of  his  gnoe^ 
852;  that  his  grace  did  not  n^lect 
the  magistrate  while  he  flattered 
the  man,  858 ;  that  his  grace  has 
abundance  of  other  merit,  to  recom- 
mend him  to  the  Sovereign,  ib, ; 
to  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  355  ;  that 
he  never  formed  a  friendship  that 
did  not  prove  iatal  to  the  object  ef 
it,  856 ;  his  grace's  services  to  hii 


INDEX. 


448 


rsyal  matter  Iiave  been  faithiiilly 
recoTded,  357;  his  grace's  re-ap- 
pointroent  to  a  seat  in  the  cabinet, 
now  announced  to  the  public,  ib. ; 
that  his  grace  is  the  pillow,  upon 
which  he  is  determined  to  rest  all 
bis  resentments,  360 ;  to  the  Rer. 
Mr.  Home,  364 ;  concludes  from 
Mr.  Home's  own  letters,  that  he 
sold  himself  to  the  ministry,  ib. ; 
censures  his  attack  on  Mr.  Wilkes, 
lb. ;  and  his  improper  introduction 
3f  a  lady's  name  into  the  papers, 
371 ;  to  the  printer  of  the '  Public 
Advertiser,*  387 ;  if  any  coarse  ex- 
pressions have  escaped  Junius,  he 
agrees  that  they  are  imAt  for  his 
pen,  but  they  may  not  have  been 
improperly  applied,  ib. ;  that,  upon 
Mr. ,  Home's  terms,  there  is  no 
danger  in  being  a  patriot,  389 ;  by 
what  gentle  degrees  his  persecuting 
spirit  has  been  softened  into  mode- 
ration, 390 ;  causes  of  Junius's  de- 
testation of  the  Duke  of  Grafton, 
391 ;  a  farewell  letter  to  Junius 
from  Mr.  Home,  396,  397 ;  Junius 
to  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  397 ;  that 
his  grace  has  done  as  much  mis- 
chief to  the  community  as  Cromwell 
would  have  done,  if  he  had  been  a 
coward,  t&. ;  the  enormous  excesses, 
through  which  court  influence  has 
conducted  his  grace,  without  a  ray 
of  real  understanding,  iJ>.;  it  is  like 
the  universal  passport  of  our  am- 
bassador, 398 ;  his  Majesty  in  want 
of  money,  and  the  navy  in  want  of 
timber,  399 ;  a  warrant  issued  for 
cutting  down  trees  in  Whittlebury 
Forest,  of  which  his  grace  is  heredi- 
tary ranger,  400;  his  grace's  be- 
haviour on  this  occasion,  %b.;  the 
oaks  keep  their  ground,  and  the 
King  is  defrauded,  401;  to  the 
livery  of  London,  403 ;  the  election 
of  a  chief  magistrate,  a  point  in 
which  every  member  of  the  com- 
munity is  interested,  406 ;  that  the 
queftion,  to  those  who  mean  fairly 


to  the  liberties  of  the  people,  lies  in 
a  narrow  compass,  ib,;  Mr.  Nash's 
character,  as  a  public  man  and  a 
magistrate,  ib. ;  he  cannot  alter  his 
conduct  without  confessing  that  he 
never  acted  on  principle  of  any 
kind,  407 ;  to  the  printer  of  the 
*  Public  Advertiser,'  408 ;  Junius 
laments  the  unhappy  differences 
which  have  arisen  among  the  friends 
of  the  people,  ib. ;  the  insidious 
partisan,  who  foments  the  disorder, 
sees  the  fmit  of  his  dishonest  in- 
dustry ripen  beyond  his  hopes,  409; 
that  Mr.  Wilkes  has  no  resource 
but  in  the  public  favour,  41 0 ; 
that  Mr.  Alderman  Sawbridge  has 
evinced  that  republican  firmness 
which  the  times  require,  ib, ;  the 
right  of  pressing  seamen  founded 
originally  upon  a  necessity  that  su- 
persedes all  argument,  412;  the 
designs  and  conduct  of  Lord  Mans- 
field further  investigated,  413,  et 
seq. ;  patriotism  is  calpable  of  being 
improved  by  transplanting,  415; 
to  the  printer  of  the  *  Public  Adver- 
tiser,' 437 ;  Junius  vindicates  him- 
self from  the  charge  of  misrepresen- 
tations, ib. — 440  ;  to  Lord  Mans 
field,  ib. ;  charges  his  lordship  with 
doing  an  illegal  act  in  bailing  Eyre, 
ib.  441 ;  Junius  engages  to  make 
good  this  charge,  ib. ;  to  the  Duke 
of  Grafbn,  ib. ;  on  the  miserable 
depression  of  the  Duke,  when  almost 
every  man  in  the  kingdom  was  ex- 
ulting at  Sir  James  Lowther's  de- 
feat, 442 ;  that  he  violates  his  own 
rules  of  decorum  when  he  does  not 
insult  the  man  whom  he  has  be- 
trayed, 443;  to  Lord  Mansfield, 
445 ;  that  the  superior  power  of 
bailing  for  felony,  in  the  Court  of 
King's  Bench,  has  only  the  nega- 
tive assent  of  the  legislature  447 ; 
that  a  person  positively  cbaiged 
with  feloniously  stealing,  and  taken 
with  the  stolen  goods  upon  him,  is 
not  bailable,  448  ;  the  law  stated 


444 


INDEX. 


419 ;  the  several  statntes  relative 
to  bail  stated  in  due  order,  tb.  et 
seq. ;  the  law  as  stated,  applied  to 
the  case  of  John  Eyre,  who  was 
committed  for  felony,  461 ;  to  the 
Bight  Hon.  Lord  Camden,  465 ; 
Junius  calls  on  his  lordship  to  stand 
forth  in  defence  of  the  laws  of  his 
coantry,  466;  extract  of  a  letter 
from  Junius  to  Mr.  Wilkes,  467. 

JUHIVS,  UlSTO^T  AND  DiSOOVERT 

or,  by  the  present  Editor,  ii.  xi. 
et  Mq. ;  the  question,  '  Who  was 
Junius  V  investigated,  xiv. ;  rea- 
sons for  affirming  that  he  was  not' 
a  lawyer,  ib. ;  that  he  was  not  a 
clergyman,  xvi. ;  that  he  was 
neither  a  peer  nor  M.P.,  xviii. 
xxii. ;  his  great  knowledge  of  state 
secrets,  xviii.  xix. ;  his  refusal  ofi 
Wilkes*8  invitation  to  a  Mansion  | 
House  ball,  xix.;  endeavours  of 
Wilkes,  Dr.  Johnson,  Lord  Mans- 
field, and  others,  to  discover  his 
identity,  xix.  xx. ;  public  excite- 
ment caused  by  the  publication  of 
his  letters,  xxi;  pains  he  took  to 
mislead  inquirers,  and  his  contrar 
dictory  statements,  xxi.  xxiL  n. ; 
the  great  interest  he  took  in  the 
parliamentary  debate  on  the  Falk- 
land  Islands,  xxii. ;  names  of  those 
who  have  been  considered  as  Ju- 
nius, but  could  not  have  been 
so,  xxii. ;  list  of  those  to  whom 
the  authorship  of  Junius  has  been 
attributed,  with  biographical  no- 
tices, xxii.  xxir.;  Authobship  or 
'Junius  InsNTiriED,'  xxx.  etseq. ; 
investigations  of  Mr.  Taylor,  xxxi. 
et  teq.'f  proofs  which  he  has  ad- 
duced to  identify  Sir  Philip  Fran- 
cis with  Junius,  xxxiL  xxxiv.  el 
teq. ;  striking  coincidences  between 
Junius  and  Sir  Philip  Francis, 
tending  to  prove  their  identity, 
xxxviii.  xlii.  xliiL  IxxviL ;  Junius 
evinces  intimate  acquaintance  with 
the  business  of  the  War  Office,  and 
a  grea.^  'islike  to  the  officials  con- 


nected therewith^  xxxix. ;  his  fr- 
miliarity  with  the  transactions  ci 
the  War  Office,  xi. ;  shows  great 
regard  to  the  femily  of  Lord  Hol- 
land, xl.  xli.  lix. ;  reasons  for 
believing  that  he  was  known  to 
Garrick,  xli. ;  certain  peculiarities 
in  the  spelling  and  handwriting  oi 
Junius  and  Sir  P.  Francb,  zliv. ; 
analytical  summary  of  these  pecu- 
liarities, by  Lord  Brougham,  ib, ; 
similarity  of  handwriting,  xlv.; 
reply  to  the  various  objections 
urged  against  this  supposition,  xlvi. 
el  seq.;  sources  whence  Junius 
derived  his  intelligence,  by  which 
his  identity  with  Sir  P.  Francis 
is  strongly  identified,  Iv.  et  seq. ; 
his  connection  with  the  fiimilies 
of  Lords  Holland  and  Chatham, 
Ivi. — Ixii. ;  his  commimications 
with  Lord  Chatham,  lix. — Ixvi. ; 
recent  and  conclusive  testimony  of 
the  identity  of  Junius  and  Sir  P. 
Francis,  Ixix.  et  eeq. ;  remarkable 
letter  from  Lady  Francis,  on  the 
subject  of  Junius,  Ixxii. ;  Lord 
Chatham  the  'powerful  ally  of 
Junius,'  Ixxiv. ;  the  Calcraft  pa- 
pers and  copies  of  his  letters  de- 
stroyed, Ixxvi. ;  lived  to  a  good 
old  age,  t5. ;  his  arrangement  with 
Lord  North,  Ixxvi.  et  teq. ;  his 
letter  to  Lord  Mansfield,  in  1772, 
his  last  public  act,  Ixxvi;  the 
circumstances  of  Sir  P.  Francis's 
life  coincident  with  the  care^  of 
Junius,  Ixxvii.  Ixxx.  el  teq. ;  says 
he  is  the  'sole  depositary  of  his 
secret,'  Ixxvii. ;  reasons  for  Sir 
Philip  not  avowing  the  authorship, 
Ixxxii. ;  the  secret  made  knovm  to 
Qeorge  III.,  Lord  North,  and  Lord 
Grenville,  but  not  communicated  to 
any  one,  Ixxix.  Ixxxi.  Ixxxiii. 

Junius,  Pbiyatb  Lbttbrs  or. 
To  Mr.  WooDFALL,  on  the  publica- 
tion of  his  Letters,  ii.  1,  etteo.;  r«i- 
0ons  for  his  sparing  the  Fox  ninily, 
li.  7,  n,;  avows  the  impoitibility  ol 


INDEX. 


445 


fcif  €9ir  being  known,  23 ;  to  Mr. 
Chtrrick.  .m  his  intermeddling  with 
Junius,  41,  42,  &v.d  n. ;  instructions 
to  Mr.  Woodta!!,  joncerning  a  col- 
lected edition  of  his  letters,  44.  49, 
et  s»i.;  desires  to  have  oh«  copy 
bound  in  vellum,  51 ;  letter  of  Mr. 
Woodfiill  to  him  on  that  subject, 
60 — 62 ;  to  Mr.  Wilkes,  63,  et  aeq. ; 
Junius  assures  Mr.  Wilkes  of  his 
support  on  constitutional  principles, 
ih. ;  on  the  Bill  of  Kights  Society, 
65 ;  on  his  connection  with  Mr. 
Sawbridge,  ib,  66,  et  seq. ;  Junius 
proposes  a  plan  for  reconciling  them, 
69;  censures  the  conduct  of  the 
■upporters  of  the  Bill  of  Rights,  70, 
71 ;  examines  the  articles  of  their 
declaration,  75 — 82.  90,  et  seq. ,  on 
the  proposed  election  of  Mr.  Crosby 
to  be  lord  mayor,  88,  89;  Junius 
declares  that  the  public  will  never 
know  him,  92 ;  permits  the  reading 
of  his  second  letter  to  the  Bill  of 
Bights  Society,  94,  95,  et  seq.; 
thanks  Mr.  Wilkes  for  his  invita- 
tion to  Guildhall  on  Lord  Mayor's 
day^  100 ;  advises  him  what  line 
of  conduct  to  pursue  as  sheriff, 
lb,  101 ;  requesting  information  on 
Eyre's  commitment,  102 — 105. 

Junius,  Miscellaneous  Lettebs 
A8CBIBED  TO,  ii.  108,  et  seq. ;  an  ad- 
mirer of  Lord  Chatham,  109, 110. 
149.  152.  171,  notes;  not  Burke, 
188,  ».;  not  Atticus,  202,  n.; 
availed  himself  of  the  materials  of, 
257,  n. ;  Junius  renounces  his  hosti- 
lity to  Lord  Chatham,  150,  and  n.; 
apparent  inconsistencies  in  his  con- 
duct accounted  for,  164,  n.;  says 
he  is  accustomed  to  official  letters, 
1 08 :  to  the  printer  of  the  '  Public 
Advertiser,'  257 ;  the  treatment  of 
Mr.  Wilkes  considered,  in  the  a&ir 
of  general  w^arrants,  257,  258 ;  to 
the  same,  262;  on  the  monody 
written  on  his  supposed  death, 
ib. — 265 ;  exaggerated  character  of 
JunioA  by  Silums,  263,  n,;  charac- , 


ter  of,  and  conjectures  ca,  Juiiiiifli 
by  Junia,  272 — 274 ;  Junius's  re« 
piy  to  her,  275 ;  Junius's  attack  on 
Lord  Mansfield's  doctrine  in  tlia 
Grosvenor  cause  defended,  330, 831; 
his  private  letters  to  Lord  Chathajr»| 
418.  415;  his  remarks  on  the  con- 
duct of  Lord  Mansfield,  415. 

Beferences  to  other  letters  of  Ju- 
nius will  be  found  in  this  index 
under  the  following  articles,  viz. : — 
A.  B.,  Amicus  Curiae,  Anonymous 
Letters,Anti-Belial,  Anti-Fox,  Anti- 
Sejanus,  Anti-Van-Teague,  Atticus, 
Augur,  Bifrons,  Brutus,  C,  Cor- 
rector, Correggio,  Crito,  Cumbrien- 
sis,Domitian,  Downright,  Henricus, 
Juniper,  L.  L.,  Mnemon,  Modera- 
tor, Moderatus,  Nemesis,  Phalaris, 
Philo-Jilnius,  Tell-Truth,  Tempo- 
rum  Felicitas,  Testiculus,  Titus, 
Valerian,  Veteran,  X.  X.,  T.  Z. 

Junius  Americanus,  a  frequent  writer 
in  the  '  Public  Advertiser,*  ii.  45, 
n.  84. 

Jury,  examination  of  Lord  Mans- 
field's charge  to,  on  the  trial  of  Mr. 
Woodfall,  i.  9i,  et  seq. ;  their  func- 
tions defined,  96 — 98  ;  juries  have 
the  full  power  of  judging  both  of 
the  law  and  the  fact,  311,  n. 

Justice,  impartial  administration  of, 
the  firmest  security  of  a  govern- 
ment, i.  110  ;  letter  from,  vindicat- 
ing the  Duke  of  Grafton,  251,  notes. 

Kennedys  (Matthew and  Patrick),  con- 
demned for  murder,  but  pardoned 
at  the  intercession  of  a  prostitute, 
i.  802,  and  n, 

Kent  (Mr.),  wrote  under  the  signa- 
ture of  '  Lycurgus,'  i.  21.  ii.  xix. 
7.;  one  of  the  claimants  to  the 
Letters  of  Junius,  xxiv. 

King  :  the  power  of  king,  lords,  and 
commons  proved  noWo  be  an  arbi^ 
irary  power,  i.  8^and  n,;  the 
maxim,  *  that  the  king  cankAo  no 
wrongi  examined,  99,  257 rwism** 
iiagement  of  his  a&irs  in  tlie  Uoone 


\ 


446 


./ 


:mdbx. 


of  Commons^ 06 ;  {iivourable  aus- 
pices withj^nmich  he  commenced  his 
reigiij  16i;  remark^  on  theprose- 


co^n  fiur  J|lniu9^  letter  to  the, 
letter  to  him.  257.  et  seq. ;  extract 


255.  270.  805, 3p6.  notes  ;  Junius's 

lim,  257,  et 
Irom  his  Majl^sty's  speech,  Nov.  13, 


answers  of,  to  the  addresses  and  re- 
monstrances of  FarliamenL  and  of 
theCi^'  of  London,  280, 281,  notes; 
hiaapeech,  Nov.  1770,  conside: 
3l9 ;  particulars  of  his  M4j^t 
dispute  witj>.the  City,  ii.  296,  297, 
notes  I  r^j/aukBlmereon  by  Mode- 
ratu8/296— 299;  the  King  cannot 
cha/ge  the  law  by  his  proclamation, 
>2;  conversation  of  his  Majesty 
with  Lord  Barrington,  398. 

L.L.,  letter  of,  to  the  printer  of  the 
'Public  Advertiser,'  ii.  195;  on 
Sir  Jeifery  Amherst's  dismission 
from  his  government,  196,  197. 

Landed  property,  limit  of  time  for  se- 
curing possession  to,  ii.  170,  n. 

Land-Tax  Act,  validity  of,  questioned 
by  Mr.  Alderman  Townshend,  ii. 
302,  n. ;  abstract  of  the  trial  of  this 
question,  303, 304,  notes. 

Lansdowne  (Lord),  his  letter  to  Mr. 
Wade,  on  the  authorship  of  Junius, 
ii.  xxvii. 

Laws  of  England  grow  out  of  the 
constitution,  i.  87. 

Lawyer,  Junius  not  of  the  profession, 
i.  92.165.  ii.xiv,  90,  91. 

Lee  (Dr.  Chas.),  the  writer  of  letters 
under  the  signature  of  Junius  Ame- 
ricanus,  ii.  45,  n.  84.  106. 

—  (General),  examination  of  his 
claims  to  the  authorship  of  Junius's 
Letters,  i.  61,  et  seq, ;  proved  not 
to  have  written  them,  66.  ii.  xxiv. 

L^ge  (Mr.),  dismissed  from  office,  for 
party  purposes,  i.  259,  lu 

Legislatare,  not  vested  with  arbitrarj 
iowm;  L  88. 


LibeU  alteration  in  the  law  o^  L  9^ 
n. ;  juries  to  judge  of  the  law  o^ 
311,  n,;  Lord  North's  speech 
against  the  evil  tendency  of,  i.  4. ; 
vilifying  the  House  of  Commons  or 
its  members,  punishable  as  severely 
in  the  King's  Bench  as  one  upon 
the  King,  i.  337. 

Liberty  of  the  press,  the  palladium  of 
British  rights,  i.  88,  89  ;  strictures 
on,    92 — 94;  remarks  on,  by   De 

,  Lolme,  101. 

entiousneas  of  the  press,  charge  of 
examined,  i.  93,  94. 

Ligonier  (Lord),  the  command  of  the 
army  taken  from  him  against  his 
inclination,  i.  120. 

Literary  forgeries,  notices  of,  iL   zii. 

•  •  • 

xm. 
Livery  of  London,  letter  to,  on   the 

choice  of  a  chief  magistrate,  L  403, 

etseq, 
Lloyd   (Charles),  proof  that  he  was 

not  the   writer  of  the  Letters  of 

Junius,  i.  56.  60. 
(Edw.),  severe  punishment  of, 

for  libel,   i.   336,   n. ;  one  of  the 

claimants  to  the  Letters  of  Junius, 

•  •  •  •  • 

u.  xxm.. 

London  (City  of),  has  given  an  ex- 
ample in  what  manner  a  king  of 
this  country  should  be  addressed, 
i.  174.  279,  et  seq. ;  addresses  o^ 
considered,  Hk;  copies  of  the  ad- 
dresses, remonstrances,  and  peti- 
tions, to  the  King,  279 — 2S1,  notes; 
vote  of  thanks  to  Lord  Chatham, 
for  his  declaration  in  fsvour  of 
short  parliaments,  i.  384,  385,  ». ; 
petition,  on  the  embezzlemoat  of 
public  treasure,  ii.  7,  et  seq. ;  reply 
thereto  by  Lord  Holland,  9 ;  par^ 
ticnlars  of  their  dispute  with  the 
King,ii.  296—298,  notes;  remarks 
thereon,  297 — 299  ;  strictures  ou 
their  remonstrance,  807,  808. 

Lords  and  Commons,  powe'S  o^  de* 
fined,  i.  88. 

Lords  (House  of),  (wder  a]]  ttnog«n 
to  be  ezdodedy  ii.  816. 


INDEX. 


447 


Lotsery,  the  wont  possible  way  of 
raisiog  money,  I.  IG6. 

iioyalty,  nature  of^  defined,  L  103. 

iioughborongh  (Lord),  one  of  tbe 
claimants  to  the  Letters  of  Junius, 
ii.  xziv. 

Lowther  (Sir  James),  his  interest  in 
the  county  of  Cumberland  ruined 
by  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  i.  142 ; 
his  litigious  spirit  displayed  in  the 
county  of  Cumberland,  402,  n.; 
charged  with  being  an  informer,  ii. 
155,  n,;  letters  relative  to  his 
grant,  153.  157.  160,  161;  non- 
suited in  his  cause  against  the  Duke 
of  Portland,  891,  n. 

Lucius,  one  of  the  assumed  signatures 
of  Junius,  i.  8 ;  remarks  on  the 
sererity  of  his  letters,  11, 12 ;  letter 
of,  to  the  printer  of  the  'Public 
Advertiser,'  ii.  201;  Lord  Hills- 
borough's conduct  towards  Sir  J. 
Amherst  considered,  201  ;  letter 
to  his  lordship  on  tbe  same  subject, 
210—213;  to  Lord  Hillsborough, 
216 ;  his  lordship's  negotiation  with 
Sir  J.  Amherst  examined,  216 — 
220 ;  reply  of  Cleophas,  222—225 ; 
to  the  Earl  of  Hillsborough,  in  refu- 
tation of  Cleophas,  225 — 228 ;  the 
same  subject  continued,  229 — 232; 
to  the  same,  233 ;  there  is  no 
surer  sign  of  a  weak  head  than  a 
settled  depravity  of  heart,  ib.; 
strictures  on  his  lordship's  system  of 
morals,  ib.;  his  lordship's  advice 
to  the  governors  of  the  colonies  con- 
sidered, 231 — 285 ;  list  of  epithets 
applied  by  his  lordship  to  Lucius, 
235;  Lucius  td  the  Earl  of  Hills- 
borough, 236;  reply  to  his  lord- 
■hip's  letter  in  tbe  *  Gazetteer,' 
287,  288. 

Lattrell  (Colonel),  successfully  patron- 
ised by  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  i. 
149;  his  arbitrary  appointment  a 
yicflation  of  the  constitution,  173; 
the  question  arising  from  Mr. 
Wilkes's  expulsion,  and  Mr.  L.'s 
appointment,  attempted  to  be  stated 


with  justice  and  precision,  175,  es 
seq.;  Lord  Camden's  manly  dis- 
approbation of  the  proceedings  of 
the  House  of  Commons  concerning 
him,  274,  n.;  strictures  on  his 
appointment  to  be  adjutant-general 
of  Ireland,  804,  n.;  Middlesex 
petition  against  his  election,  re- 
jected in  the  House  of  Commons, 
ii.  1,  2,  n ;  petition  against,  to  his 
Majesty,  2,  n. ;  further  observations 
on  his  being  seated  in  Parliament 
to  the  exclusion  of  Mr.  Wilkes, 
808,  809. 

Lycurgus,  the  signature  of  Mr.  Kent, 
i.  21;  ii.  xix.  7. 

Lynn,  burgesses  of,  re-elect  Mr.  Wal- 
pole,  after  being  expelled,  i.  179. 

Mackenzie  (Mr.  Stuart),  biographical 
notices  of,  i.  158,  n.;  217. 

Maclean  (Laughlin),  remarks  on,  i. 
77,  n.  ii.  847,  348;  account  of, 
tb.  n. ;  one  of  the  claimants  to  the 
Letters  of  Junius,  ii.  xxiv. 

Macpherson  (Sir  John),  monody  on 
Junius,  ii.  263,  n. 

Macpherson's  forgery  of  the  *  Poemt 
of  Ossian,'  ii.  xiii. 

M'Quirk  (Edw.),  trial,  conviction, 
and  pardon  of,  i.  136 ;  Junius's  ob- 
servations on,  187;  his  Majesty's 
warrant  for  pardoning  him,  138, 
n.;  the  pardoning  of  him  much 
censured,  139 ;  the  reasons  assigned 
for  it,  examined  and  refated,  ib. 
et  seq.;  the  Duke  of  Grafton's 
conduct  in  this  a&ir  considered  by 
Simplex,  ii.  267,  268. 

Malone  (Mr.),  examination  of  his  evi- 
dence to  prove  that  Mr.  Hamilton 
did  not  write  Junius's  Letters,  i. 
58,  59. 

Manilla  ransom,  dishonourably  given 
up,  i.  118;  notice  of,  ib.  n.  120. 

M<\nsfield  (Lord),  his  illegal  doctrine 
yu  the  liberty  of  the  press,  i.  6.  91 : 
strictures  on  his  charge  to  the  jury, 
in  the  cas<'  of  libels,  94,  et  geg.', 
speech  on  the  proseention  of  M& 


448 


IKDEX. 


Vaaj^han,  254,  ii. ;  remarks  on  Ju- 
nins's  Letters,  306,  n.;  anecdotes 
of,  807,  n. ;  Junias  pays  a  tribate  to 
his  Scotch  sincerity,  307 ;  that  his 
lordship  had  some  attachments, 
which  he  took  every  opportunity 
to  acknowledge,  ib, ;  chained  with 
having  drank  the  Pretenders  health 
on  his  knees,  i.  tb.  n.;  is  charged 
with  reviving  the  maxims  of  go- 
vernment of  his  favourite  &mily, 
808;  and  with  following  a  nniform 
plan  of  enlarging  the  power  of  the 
crown  at  the  subject's  expense,  tb. ; 
that  he  labours  to  contract  the 
power  of  the  jury,  or  to  mislead 
their  judgment,  809;  that,  instead 
of  positive  rules  which  should  de- 
termine a  court,  he  has  introduced 
his  own  unsettled  notions  of  equity, 
ib. ;  his  conduct  in  regard  to  Bing- 
ley's  confinement  and  release,  810; 
his  charge  to  the  jury  contradicts 
the  highest  legal  authorities,  311 — 
318;  is  reminded  of  the  name  of 
Benson,  ib.;  charged  with  doing 
much  mischief  to  this  country  as 
a  minister,  ib. ;  and  with  support- 
ing a  ministry  which  he  knew  to 
be  odious,  and  spoke  of  sometimes 
with  contempt,  814;  appointed 
Speaker  of  the  Upper  House,  815, 
11.;  Zeno's  vindication  of,  421 — 
425,  n. ;  his  suspicious  applause  of 
Lord  Chatham,  424,  et  nq.;  his 
reasons  for  challenging  a  jur3n3aan, 
426;  is  defended  by  Solicitor-Ge- 
neral Thurlow,  t&.  n. ;  is  accused  of 
endeavouring  to  screen  the  King's 
brother,  427;  and  of  introducing 
new  practices  into  the  Court  of 
King's  Bench,  ib.  428;  defended 
against  Junius  and  his  party,  432 — 
485,  A. ;  is  charged  by  Junius  with 
bailing  a  man  not  bailable  by  the 
law  of  the  land,  445;  the  last 
public  act  of  Junius,  his  letter  ad- 
dressed to,  ii.  Ixxvi.  Ixxvii. ;  his 
decision  in  the  case  of  Meares  and 
Shepley  against  Ansell  erronecns 


according  to  the  Court  cf  Connaoi 
Fleas,  50,  n.;  Lord  Camden  ae* 
ceptA  his  challenge  to  discuss  the 
doctrine  laid  down  by  the  King's 
Bench  in  WoodadVs  case,  317; 
Lord  Mansfield  refuses  to  answer 
his  lordship,  319;  his  conduct  oq 
Mr.  Woodfiill's  trial  defended  by 
Nerva,  320 — 323,  notes;  attacked 
by  Fhakris,  820-— 825;  Junins's 
remarks  on  the  conduct  of,  415; 
on  the  judicial  merits  of,  436,  487, 
M.;  extract  from  his  eloquent 
speech  on  the  reversal  of  Mr. 
Wilkes's  outlawry,  478. 

Maynard  (Lady),  the  mistress  of  the 
Duke  of  Grafton,  i.  148.  152, 
fvotet. 

Measures  and  not  men,  the  common 
cant  of  affected  moderation,  iL  224 ; 
a  quotation  from  Pope  on  this  sub- 
ject, t&. 

Meredith  (Sir  William),  vindicated 
from  some  aspersions  thrown  out 
against  him,  in  a  pamphlet  written 
in  defence  of  Sir  William  Black- 
stone,  i.  187,  188. 

Messala,  letter  of,  vindicating  the 
Duke  of  Grafton's  conduct  towards 
the  Duke  of  Rutland,  ii.  280, 281. 

Middlesex  election  ;  petition  of  th< 
freeholders  of  this  county  to  the 
King,  in  consequence  of  thje  deci- 
sion of  the  House  of  Commons  on 
the  Middlesex  election,  ii.  1,  2,  m.; 
proceedings  of  Parliament  in,  cen- 
sured by  the  Marq.  of  (}ranby,  182, 
n. ;  sheriffs  of,  discharge  their  duty 
in  returning  Mr.  Wilkes,  150  ;  ac- 
count of  his  successive  re-elections 
for  this  county,  149,  150,  noUt: 
the  arbitrary  election  of  Mr.  Lut- 
trell,  a  violation  of  the  constitntion, 
178 ;  this  election  considered,  188, 
and  n.  ii.  302. 

Miller  (John),  printer  of  the  '  Lon- 
don Bvening  Post,'  arrested  by 
order  of  the  Honse  of  Gommona 
but  discharged  by  Wflke^  iL  84a 
849.  n. 


INDEK. 


449 


ilinistr},  arrangement  of,  in  1*^69, 
i.  27, 7i. 

Ministeis:  to  be  acquainted  with 
their  merit  it  is  sufficient  to  observe 
the  condition  of  the  people,  i.  104 ; 
theilr  misconduct  is  the  cause  of  the 
sudden  and  extraordinary  change 
within  these  few  years  in  Great 
Britain,  t6.;  list  of,  when  Junius 
commenced  his  Letters,  104  ;  the 
conduct  and  character  of  ministers 
the  real  cause  of  national  calami- 
ties, 1 1 7 ;  a  minister  in  this  coun- 
try, who  is  determined  to  do 
wrong,  must  be  a  man  of  abilities 
and  courage,  ii.  149;  ministers  are 
called  upon  to  answer  for  the  ex- 
cesses attendant  on  Mr.  Wilkes's 
election,  166,  et  seq. ;  their  conduct 
towards  him  fully  considered,  163 
— 167, 168  ;  they  produce  him  once 
more  on  the  stage,  in  order  to  keep 
Lord  Bute  in  order,  167 ;  duplicity 
their  predominant  virtue,  173 ;  il- 
lustrated in  their  conduct  towards 
the  Duke  of  Portland,  174—176 ; 
their  endeavours  to  make  us 
happy  have  been  equally  inde- 
fatigable and  ingenious,  177;  are 
charged  by  Valerius  with  violating 
the  rights  of  long  and  undisputed 
possession,  for  the  purposes  of 
undue  influence  at  an  election,  and 
of  paying  a  base  court  to  a  clan- 
destine and  dangerous  power,  179 ; 
the  line  of  conduct  stated  which 
they  ought  to  have  pursued  in  the 
Duke  of  Portland's  case,  181 ;  their 
conduct  towards  Sir  J.  Amherst 
considered,  201.  206;  do  not  al- 
ways 'tell  the  truth,  even  to  their 
most  intimate  friends,  252;  re- 
formation of,  under  the  Duke  of 
Qrafton,  ii.  Ivii. 

llnemon,  one  of  the  assumed  signa- 
tures of  Junius,  i.  8 ;  letters  of,  to 
the  printer  of  the  '  Public  Adver- 
tiser,' ii.  153;  that  the  people  of 
England  axe  by  nature  phlegmadi:. 


ih.;  the  principle,  that  no  length 
of  possession  secures  against  the 
claim  of  the  crown,  controverted, 
155;  to  the  printer  of  the  'Public 
Advertiser,'  156 ;  the  maxim  nul- 
lum tempus  occurrit  Regi,  further 
discussed,  ih.  et  seq. 

Moderator,  letter  of,  to  the  printer  of 
the  *  Public  Advertiser,'  ii.  125 ; 
strictures  on  the  contest  between 
Philo-Veritatis  and  No  Ghost,  on 
Lord  Townshend's  bravery,  125 — 
128. 

Moderatus,  letter  of,  to  the  printer  of 
the  *  Public  Advertiser,  ii.  296 ; 
strictures  on  the  King's  dispute 
with  the  city  of  London, 
296—298,  notes, 

Modestus,  charges  Junius  with  ab- 
surdity in  his  writings,  i.  236 ; 
cannot  distinguish  between  a  sar- 
casm and  a  contraaiction,  ih. ;  is 
charged  with  misquoting  what  Ju- 
nius says  of  conscience,  and  making 
the  sentence  ridiculous  by  making 
it  his  own,  237 ;  who  was  the  real 
writer  under  the  signature  of  Mo- 
destus, 235,  n, ;  remarks  on  his 
contest  with  Junius,  ii.  286,  287 ; 
another  letter  of  Modestus  to  Ju- 
nius, 289 ;  strictures  on  the  con 
duct  of  Captains  Garth  and  Dodd, 
ib,  290,  291. 

Molina  (the  Jesuit),  his  work  on 
*  Grace  and  Freewill'  noticed,  ii. 
176,  n. 

Monody  oh  Junius,  ii.  263. 

Monson  (Col.),  insult  to  the  memory 
of,  vindicated  by  Sir  P.  Francis, 
11.  111. 

Montesquieu,  maxim  of,  i.  137,  n. 

'Monthly  Magazine,'  the  editor's  in- 
vestigations into  the  identity  of 
Junius,  ii.  xxxv.  xxxvi. 

Moore  (Sir  John)  has  a  pension  of 
500^.  per  annum,  i.  161,  and  n. ; 
query  concerning  it,  163. 

Morgan  (James,  clerk  of  the  Lord 
Mayor),  compelled  by  the  Haaif 


VOL.  n 


a  Q 


1 


450 


WDEX., 


of  Commons  to  expmge  the  mi- 

r.ntes  of  commitment  of  their  me»- 

geiiger,  ii.  366,  Jt, 
Morris   (Mr.  Robert),  notices  of,  ii. 

54,  n, ;  speech  of,  on  the  arrest  of 

printers  for  printing  the  debates  in 

parliament,  ii.  355,  n. 
Musgrave  (Dr.), firmness  and  integrity 

of,  before  the  House  of  Commons, 

i.  297,  and  n, 

Nash  (Mr.),  considerations  on  his 
character  as  a  magistrate  and  as  a 
public  man,  i  405,  406,  and  notes  s 
elected  Lord  Mayor  of  London,  ii. 
70;  state  of  the  poll  at  his  elec- 
tion, ib.  n. 

Nation,  when  its  safety  is  at  stake 
suspicion  is  a  sufficient  ground  for 
inquiry,  i.  103. 

Navy,  woful  state  of,  in  1771,  i. 
399,  and  n. 

Nemesis,  letter  of,  to  the  printer  of 
the  'Public  Advertiser,'  ii.  409; 
memoirs  of  Lord  Barrington,  «}. 
412 ;  letter  imder  this  signature 
from  the  pen  of  W.  Windham,  Vis- 
count Barrington,  412,  n. 

Nerva,  letter  of,  to  the  printer  of  the 
*  Public  Advertiser,'  ii.  320, ».;  vin- 
dicates Lord  Mansfield's  conduct  in 
the  House  ofLords,320— 325,9io<m. 

Newbery's  edition  of  Junius,  remarks 
on,  ii.  5. 

Noblemen  (young),  advaatage  of  their 
entering  into  the  army,  i.  123. 

Nc>rth  (Lord),  his  ronarks  on  the 
Letters  of  Junius,  i.  4,  n.;  Chan- 
cellor of  the  Exchequer,  104 ; 
doubts  as  to  his  abilities  as  Chan- 
cellor of  the  Exchequer,  106;  is 
admonished  to  think  seriously  be- 
fore he  increases  the  public  debt, 
ib. ;  character  of,  107,  n. ;  appointed 
Premier,  271.  273,  no(e»;  notices 
of  his  administration,  285,  1^86 ; 
the  palm  of  ministerial  firmness 
transferred  to  him,  277;  had  the 
guB«hs   of   reducing    the    i'  per 


cents,  at  once,  299 ;  Init  loeee  the 
opportunity,  800,  and  n. ;  the 
honour  of  rewarding  Col.  Luttrell's 
services  reserved  for  him,  308 ;  is 
called  upon  by  Junius  to  tell  who 
advised  his  Majesty  to  appoint 
Col.  Luttrell  adjutant-general  of 
Ireland,  304 ;  he  shall  not  have 
time  to  new  model  the  Irish  army, 
805 ;  arrangement  with  respect  to 
the  Letters  of  Junius,  u.  Izxvi  et 
seq, ;  letter  to,  on  the  choice  of  hii 
friends,  and  ministerial  condnet, 
37,  A. ;  Lord  North's  defence  (rf 
himself,  relative  to  Sir  Wm.  Low- 
ther's  grant,  159,  n. ;  political  pop* 
trait  of  him,  246. 

'North  Briton,' edited  by  John  Wilkee, 
i.  135 ;  prosecution  of  the,  t6. 

Northington  (Lord  Chancellor),  por- 
trait of,  by  Junius,  ii  118 ;  reversal 
of  his  decrees,  128;  conduct  and 
character  of,  414. 

Novalis,  defender  of  Lord  Barringten, 
ii.  402  ;  remarks  on,  403.  I 

Noye  (Mr.  Attorney-General),  hia 
opinion  of  the  privilege  of  the 
House  of  Commons  to  commit  for 
contempt,  i.  846. 

Nullum  tempua  occurrit  ruffi.  This 
maxim  examined  and  exposed,  iL 
156,  et  »eq. ;  investigated  by  G. 
(Junius),  168 ;  it  could  only  be  trw 
under  the  feudal  government^  170. 

Oaks,  story  of  the,  L  408. 

Old  Noll,  destined  to  be  the  roin  of 
the  house  of  Stuart,  i.  164 ;  the 
nickname  of  Oliver  CromweU,  A. 
91..;  grants  that  Corsica  has  been 
sacrificed  to  the  French,  167. 

Oliver  (Alderman  of  London),  com- 
mitted to  the  Tower  by  the  Hoose 
of  Commons,  i.  329,  n. 

Onslow  (Mr.),  threatens  to  proseeoti 
Mr.  Woodfkll  for  printing  a  libel  on 
his  character,  ii.  7 ;  conespondflDca 
of,  on  this  subject,  15,  et  ieq,;  le^ 
ier  to  him  by  Mr.  gome^  17<*«-I9l 


ltoKX« 


451 


whonihe  tues,  but  is  nonsuited,  20; 

Jonius's  private  opinion  of  him,  tb. ; 

letters  to  Mr.  Wilkes,  2S2,ajidnoi€s. 
Ottoman  Porte,  influence  of  the  French 

oyer  the,  L  160.  n. 
Outlawry  of  Mr.  Wilkes,  extract  from 

Lord  Mansfield's  speech  on  reversing 

it,  L  478.  . 

Parliament,  Junius  not  a  member  of, 
iu  xriii. 

Parliaments,  notice  of  Alderman  Saw- 
bridge's  motion  for  triennial,  L  35 ; 
the  foundation  of  the  undue  in- 
fluence of  the  crown,  137 ;  the  privi- 
lege of  Parliaments  considered,  184, 
185 ;  addresses  from  Parliament  con- 
sidered as  a  fisishionable  unmeaning 
formality,  290 ;  their  consequences 
considered  when  they  mean  what 
they  profess,  ti^.;  the  debates  in 
parliament  prohibited,  328,  n.; 
proceedings  against  various  printers 
for  violating  the  privileges  of,  tb, 
829,  330 ;  fictitious  accounts  of  the 
debates  in  Parliament  in  1767,  ii. 
137,  et  teq.  See  Commons,  House 
o£ 

Parsons  j(Ann),  the  Duke  of  Grafton's 
mistress,  i.  148,  149.  152,  no^.  ii. 
185  ;  his  base  conduct  towards  her, 
i.  152,  n. ;  led  into  public  by  him, 
and  placed  at  the  head  of  his  table, 
162;  handed  through  the  Opera 
House  in  presence  of  the  Queen,  by 
the  First  Lord  of  the  Treasury,  166. 

Parties,  union  of,  not  productive  of  the 
benefit  expected  therefrom,  i.  104  ; 
plan  for  conciliating  recommended 
by  Sir  William  Draper,  132, 133,  n. 

Peer,  Junius  not  a,  ii.  xviii. 

People  :  the  submission  of  a  free 
people  a  compliance  with  laws 
enacted  by  themselves,  i.  103;  in 
reading  the  history  of,  how  we 
become  interested  in  their  cause, 
ih. ;  the  impartial  administration  of 
justice  the  firmest  bond  to  secure 
their  submission,  and  to  engage 
their  affectionf  to  government^  110. 


Percy  (Larl),  placed  at  the  head  of  a 
regiment,  i.  123 ;  was  aide-de-camp 
to  the  King,  and  had  the  rank  qI 
colonel  before  he  had  a  regiment, 
127. 

Phalaris,  It^tttcr  of,  to  the  printer  of 
the  'Public  Advertiser,'  ii.  320; 
replies  to  Nerva,  against  Lord 
Mansfield's  conduct  in  Mr.  Wood- 
fiiU's  afi&ir,  320—325  ;  a  card  from  ' 
Phalaris,  on  Mr.  Justice's  amours 
with  Lady  WUliams,  327. 

Philalethes,  letter  of,  to  Junius,  in 
vindication  of  the  Duke  of  Grafton, 
i.  403—405. 

Philo-Junius  to  the  printer  of  the 
'Public  Advertiser,'  i.  162;  that 
the  Duke  of  Grafton's  friends,  in 
the  contest  with  Junius,  are  reduced 
to  the  general  charge  of  scurrility 
and  faUehood,  t&. ;  the  truth  of 
Junius's  &cts  of  importance  to  the 
public,  ih.\  a  review  of  them,  as 
stated  in  Letter  xii.  i&.  163;  and 
the  letter  to   the  printer  of  the 

*  Public  Advertiser,'  164 ;  explana- 
tions of  the  letters  of,  ih,  163,  164, 
notes 'i  that  the  Duke  of  Grafton's 
whole  course  of  life  is  a  strange 
endeavour  to  reconcile  contradic- 
tion, ih,  165;  a  violation  of  public 
decorum  should  never  be  forgiven, 
166;  remarks  on  the  Duke's  con- 
duct in  this  respect,  ih.;  that  his 
grace  always  has  some  excellent 
reasons  for  deserting  his  friends,  ih.\ 
ironical  notice  of  Lord  Sandwich, 
ih,  180,  and  n.\  to  the  printer 
of  the  'Public  Advertiser,'  180; 
the  objections  of  G.  A.  to  Junius's 
'state  of  the  question  concerning  the 
Middlesex  election  considered,'  180, 
et  seq.  246,  et  seq. ;  his  letter  to  the 

*  Public  Advertiser,'  202  ;  vindi- 
cates Junius's  reasoning  on  Mr. 
Walpole's  case,  202 — 204,  notes  ; 
charges  the  ministry  with  intro- 
ducing a  new  system  of  political 
logic,  which  he  calls  argument 
against  £ftct,  205 ;  that  Sir  Williaca 

a  <»  3 


452 


I19DEX 


Blackstone   sometimes    « jntradicts 
the  miDistry  as  well  as  himself, 
207  ;  to  the  printer  of  the  '  Public 
Advertiser/    235 ;    he   is  assured 
that  Junius  will  never  descend  to  a 
dispute   with    such    a    writer    as 
Modestus,  ib. ;  examination  of  the 
proofs  brought  to  support  the  charge 
of  Junius  being  an  Irishman,  236, 
et  seq.'j  that  Hodestus  misquotes 
what  Junius  says  of   conscience, 
and  makes  the  sentence  ridiculous 
by  making  it  his  own,  237 ;  to  the 
printer  of  the  '  Public  Advertiser,' 
245 ;   remarks  on  Junius's  Letter 
xxz.   lb.  246,  et  seq.;    his  letter 
to  the  printer  of  the  *  Public  Adver- 
tiiter,   325;   that  Anti-Junius  tri- 
umphs in  having,  as  he  supposes, 
cut  off  an  outpost  of  Junius,  326  ; 
that  Junius  does  not  speak  of  the 
Spanish   nation,  but   the   Spanish 
court,  as   the  natiunl  enemies  of 
England,  ib.;    if  it  were  not  for 
the  respect  he  bears  the  minister, 
he  could  name  a  man  who,  without 
one  grain  of  understanding,  can  do 
half  as  much  as  Oliver  Cromwell, 
ib.;  as  to  a  secret  system  in  the 
closet,  that  this  can  only  be  deter- 
mined by  appearances,  327;   the 
queries  put  by  Anti-Junius  can  only 
be  answered  by  the  ministry,  ib; 
to  the  printer  of  the  *  Public  Adver- 
tiser,' 328 ;  that  those  who  object 
to  detached  parts  of  Junius's  last 
letter,  either  do  not  mean  fairly,  or 
have  not  considered  the  scope  of  his 
argument,  ib. ;  that  Junius  does  not 
expect  a  dissolution  of  Parliament 
will  destroy  corruption,  but  will  be 
a  terror  and  check  to  their  succes- 
sors, 340;  to  the  printer  of  the 
*  Pvblic  Advertiser,'  t6. ;  on  Junius's 
construction  of  the  vote  declaring 
Mr.  Walpole's  incapacity,  ib.  341 ; 
extract  from  Lord  Somers,  in  sup- 
port of  this  construction,  ib.;  if 
Junius's  construction  be  admitted, 
tJM  advocates  of  the  House  of  Com- 


mons   must    be    reduced    to   ths 

'     necessity  of  maintaining  a  gross 
absurdity,  ib. ;  that  the  House  did 

I      not  foresee  one  efiect  resulting  &vm 
their  vote  on  the  Middlesex  elec- 
tion, 342;  to  the  printer  of  the 
'Public  Advertiser/  346;   on  the 
opinions  of  Noye  and  Coke,  on  the 
jurisdiction  of  the  House  of  Com- 
mons, ib.  347;  to  the  printer  of 
the   'Public  Advertiser,'  ib.;   the 
resolutions    and    conduct    of    the 
House  further  considered,  ib.  351 ; 
to  the  printer  of  the  '  Public  Ad- 
vertiser,' 394 ;  the  vanity  and  im- 
piety of  Junius  are  become  the  per- 
petual topics  of   abuse,  t&.;    the 
proofs  of  this  charge  considered,  ti&. ; 
and  refuted,  895;  to  the  printer 
of  the  'Public  Advertiser/   417; 
that  Junius's  inclination  leads  him 
to  treat  Lord  Camden  with  par- 
ticular respect,  ib. ;  that  Lord  (Um- 
den  overshot  himself  in  asserting 
the  proclamation  against  exporting 
com  to  be  legal,  419;  to  Zeno, 
421 ;  the  sophistry  of  his  letter  in 
defence    of     Lord    Mansfield    is 
adapted  to  the  character  he  defoids, 
ib. ;  strictures  on  Lord  Mansfield's 
doctrines,  425,  et  »eq.;   that  his 
lordship  incessantly  laboured  to  in- 
troduce new  modes  of  proceeding 
into  the  Court  of  King's  Bench, 
428;  to  an  advocate  in  the  cause 
of  the  people,  429;  the  difference 
between  general  warrants  and  preM- 
warrants    stated    and    explained, 
430,  et  seq. 

Philo-Veritatis,  extract  of  his  letter, 
recording  the  bravery  of  Lord 
Townshend,  ii.  125,  n. 

Pitt  (Mr.),  political  career  of,  i.  168, 
169,  n.;  Col.  Barrfs  letter  to,  ii 
417;  Barry's  parliamentary  speech 
against,  418. 

Poetikastos,  extract  of  a  letter  firom, 
i.  145,  n. ;  monody  o^  on  Junius 
ii.  263,  fiotet. 

Political  parties,  state  of,  i.  808,  ». 


INDKX. 


453 


Pomoiia,  ironka]  letter  from,  to  the 
Duke  of  Grafton,  ii.  184. 

Pope  (Mr.),  quotation  from  a  letter  of 
his,  to  Dr.  Arbuthnot,  L  224. 

Poplicola,  letter  of,  to  the  printer  of 
the  'Public  Advertiser,'  ii.  108; 
the  bravest  and  fiercest  nations 
have  sometimes  submitted  to  a 
temporary  surrender  of  their  liber- 
ties, in  order  to  secure  them,  tb. ; 
observations  on  his  letters,  ib.  n. ; 
who  was  he]  109;  Junius  the  au- 
thor of  his  letters,  110;  arraigns 
Lord  Chatham's  conduct,  ib,;  to 
the  same,  in  reply  to  the  strictures 
of  C.  D.,  114—117. 

Portland  (Duke  of),  one  of  the  claim- 
ants to  the  Letters  of  Junius,  ii. 
zxiii. ;  notices  of,  ib.  n, ;  duplicity 
of  ministers  to  him  exposed,  173 
—177 ;  principal  points  in  his 
case  stated,  179, 180;  the  conduct 
pointed  out  which  ministers  ought 
to  have  pursued  towards  him,  181. 

Pownall  (J.)  letter  to  Mr,  Woodfall, 
ii.  20. 

Precedents,  influence  of,  i.  87. 

Prerogative  (Royal),  account  of  the 
outrageous  attempt  made  to  enlarge 
it  by  the  ministry,  i.  401,  402,  n, ; 
the  establishment  of  the  several 
high  offices  of  state,  a  check  to  the 
prerogative  of  the  crown,  iL  151. 

Press,  indebted  to  Mr.  Fox  for  the 
liberty  of,  i.  5,  6 ;  illegal  doctrine 
of  Lord  Mansfield  on,  6;  the  pal- 
ladium of  British  liberty,  88,  89; 
strictures  on,  91  —  94;  remarks 
on,  by  De  Lolme,  101;  must  al- 
ways prove  formidable  to  an  ar- 
bitrary government,  ii.  864;  re- 
marks on,  ih,  et  seq. 

Pressing  seamen,  the  right  of,  found<4 
originally  on  a  necessi^  which 
supersedes  all  argument,  i.  412; 
queries  and  replies  thereto,  on  the 
legality  of  this  practice,  ib,  413, 

Press-warrants  and  general  warrants, 
difierence  between,  i.  430—482. 


Print&rs,  proceedings  against,  for  re- 
porting the  debates  in  Parliament, 
luid  strictures  thereon,  ii.  34&— 
350,  and  notes f  356,  etteq.  and  notes. 

Privileges,  nature  and  origin  of,  in- 
vestigated, i.  833,  et  Mq. ;  ii.  862, 
et  seq. 

Protest,  spirited,  against  the  proceed* 
ings  rel&^ve  to  the  Falkland  Isle^ 
ii.  842,  348,  iiotes. 

Fsalmanazar,  literary  impositions  o^ 
unmasked,  ii.  xiL 

'Public  Advertiser,'  current  newspaper 
of  the  day,  i  3 ;  sale  of,  owing  to 
the  Letters  of  Junius,  18,  it. 

Purling,  John,  notice  of,  ii.  56,  n. 

Quieting  Bill,  passing  of  the,  ii.  155, 
n. ;  debate  on,  159,  a. 

Reformers,  dissensions  among,  ani- 
madverted on  by  Junius,  i.  408. 

Eigby  (Mr.),  account  of,  i.  166,  «. ; 
modesty  of,  257. 

Riots,  on  account  of  Mr.  Wilkes,  no- 
tices of,  ii.  136 ;  account  of  one  in 
St.  George's  Fields,  183,  n. ;  re- 
marks on  the  letter  of  thanks  to 
the  commanding  officer  of  the 
troops  employed  on  that  occasion, 
1 82—1 84 ;  copy  of  the  letter  itself, 
182,  183,  n.;  strictures  on  Lord 
Barrington's  conduct,  399. 

Roberts  (John),  not  the  author  dS 
Junius's  Lett^s,  i.  56 ;  one  of  the 
claimants  to,  ii.  xziii. 

Robinson  (J.),  prosecution  of,  for 
libel,  i.  806,  n. ;  secretary  of  the 
Treasury,  856;  curious  letter  oi^ 
on  the  appointment  of  sheriffi| 
858,  n. 

Rochford  (Lord),  minister  for  Foreign 
Department,  i.  104 ;  estimate  of  his 
talents,  109.  andii.  250,251 ;  suc- 
ceeds to  the  Foreign  Department, 
i.  354,  n. 

Rockingham  (Marq.),  Wilkes  if  pcfr 
sioned  under  hii  administration,  i 
136;  duration  of  his  adm'niitr» 
tion,  ii.  192. 


AU 


IKDEX 


Bosenba^ei;  (Rev.  Mr.*,,  proofs  that 

he  was  not  the  auth:r  of  Janins's 

Letters.  L  61 .  ii.  xrii :  one  of  the 

claimaiiU  to,  iL  xxIt. 
Kongh  (Sergeant),  letter  )f,  to  B.  H. 

Barker,  il  421. 
Rowlinson  (Mr.),  his  disaatis&ction 

with  Lord  Mansfield's  decision,  iL 

50. 
Royal  Marriage  Act,  passmg  of  the, 

ii.  888,  n. 

Sacktille  (Lord  George),  at  one  pe- 
riod suspected  to  be  the  author  of 
Junius's  Letters,  i.  81 ;  a  strong 
reason  for  thinking  the  suspicion 
groundless,  82;  copy  of  his  letter 
to  Colonel  Fitzroy,  ib.;  intimate 
with  Dr.  S.  Swinney,  ii.  6. 

Safety,  national,  when  at  stake,  sus- 
picion is  a  sufficient  ground  for  In- 
quiry, i.  103. 

St  George's  Fields,  Wilkes  riots  in, 
iL  182, 183. 

Sandwich  (Lord),  spotless  morality  of, 
L  166,  and  n,;  remarks  on  his 
return  to  office,  ii.  326,  327,  828, 
829.  331. 

Sayille  (Lord  Gko.),  character  of,  L 
45 ;  one  of  the  claimants  to  the 
Letters  of  Junius,  ii.  xxiv. 

Sawbridge  (Aid.),  has  shown  himself 
possessed  of  that  republican  firm- 
ness which  the  times  require,  i.  45. 
411;  notices  of,  iL  64,  n. ;  remuks 
of  Junius  on  his  connection  with 
Mr.  Wilkes,  65,  et  seq, 

Scsevola's  letter  to  Junius,  explaining 
Lord  Camden's  opinion,  i.  417,  n.; 
he  is  chastised  by  Junius,  ii.  51,  n. 

Scotch,  Junius's  dislike  to  the, 
erinced  by  his  letters,  i.  264. 
271.  907.  331.  ii.  xiv. ;  though  he 
calls  himself  a  Scotchman,  and  as- 
sumes the  title  of  Scotus,  ii.  406. 

Scotch  influence,  remarks  oq,L  98,  99. 

Scotus,  ironical  letter  of,  to  Lord  Bar- 
rington,  on  his  abuse  of  the  Scotch 
character,  iL  406,  407;  letter  of, 
fimo  the  pen  of  Junius,  407,  ». 


Scrutator,  extracts  of  hb  letiin  H 
Tiiidication  of  Lord  HiUsborongh, 
ii.  229,  ».  231,  n. 

Seamen,  the  right  of  pressing,  founded 
originally  on  a  necessity  which 
supersedes  all  argument,  L  412; 
queries  and  answers  on  the  l^ality 
of  this  right,  ib.  413,  notes. 

Shammy,  a  nickname  for  Mr.  Chamiery 
iL  892. 

Shelbume  (Lord),  applied  to,  in  r^ard 
to  the  Manilla  ransom,  L  118,  m.; 
portrait  of,  128 ;  one  of  the  claim- 
ants to  the  Letters  of  Junius,  ii. 
xxii.  xxT.;  his  denial  of  the  author- 
ship, xxri.  xxviL;  his  conduct, 
with  respect  to  Corsica,  disaTowed 
by  ministers,  160,  and  n. ;  foreign 
secretary,  242.  244;  account  of 
his  political  life,  248;  character 
of;  418. 

Sheriffs  of  Middlesex  dischanred  their 
duty  in  returning  Mr.  Wilkes,  L 
150,  and  n. ;  Mr.  Home  onsuooess- 
fid  in  support  of  the  ministerial 
nomination  of  sheriflb,  859;  their 
andience  with  Lord  Weymouth  and 
the  King,  iL  296—298. 

Siloros,  character  of  Junius  by  him, 
iL  268,  n. 

Smythe  (Mr.  Baron),  censured  by 
Junius,  i.  438.  440;  state  of  the 
case,  and  vindication  of  him  by  Mr. 
Dunning,  463,  464,  n. 

Soldier,  reasons  for  thinking  Jmiioi 
was  one,  L  242,  243.  8l5.  829, 
830;  iL  119,  120.  203.  206.  211. 
265.  267;  calls  himself  one, 
393. 

Somers  (Lord),  extract  from  bis  trad 
on  the  rights  of  the  people,  i.  202. 

Somerset  Coffee-house,  one  of  the 
principal  places  where  Junint's 
parcels  were  to  be  left,  i.  22. 

Spain,  dishonourable  conduct  of  ths 
government  of,  concerning  the  Ma- 
nilla ransom,  L  118,  n. ;  on  the  pf» 
paiations  for  war  with  that  com- 
try,  '.i.  33,  and  n. 

Stimy  A«t  made  and  repealed,  L  lOT; 


nTDEX. 


455 


eflisct  of  passing  it  on  the  colonies, 
158,  n. 

State,  the  ruin  or  prosperity  of,  de- 
pends on  the  administration  of  its 
goTemment,  i.  104 ;  the  improper 
bebtowment  of  its  princi(«l  offices 
the  source  of  every  mischief,  ib. 
106. 

8towe,  the  manuscripts,  or  'myste- 

'  rioas  box '  at,  reyeal  no  secrets  of 
Junius's  identity,  ii.  bcxziii. 

8tnart8,  &mily  of,  their  affinities  or 
claims  no  longer  of  interest,  ii.  x. 

Snarez,  the  Jesnit,  his  works  publicly 
burnt,  il  176,  n, 

Suffolk  (Earl  of),  letter  to,  on  his  con- 
duct,  ii.  368  ;  his  lordship  the  first 
who  has  avowed  himself  to  act  with- 
out principle,  375;  strictures  on 
bis  political  tergiversaticm,  %b. — 
378 ;  his  lordship's  resignation,  a 
pledge  of  his  delicacy,  if  not  of  his 
integrity,  879;  the  situation  into 
which  he  brought  himself  con- 
sidel-ed,  380,  881. 

Supreme,  import   of   the  word   ex 
plained,  i.  88. 

Suspicion,  is  a  proper  ground  for  in- 
quiry, when  the  national  safety  is 
at  stake,  i.  153. 

Swinney  (Dr.  Sidney),  designated  by 
Junius  *  a  dangerous  fool,'  i.  20,  ii. 
xviii.;  author  of  the  'Battle  of 
Minden,'  &c.,  ii.  6,  n, ;  on  intimate 
terms  with  Lord  Qeorge  Sackville, 
ib. 

Talbot  (Lord),  his  duel  with  Wilkes, 
ii.  212,  n. 

Taylor  (Mr.),  the  author  of  *  Junius 
Identified,'  his  investigations  and 
discoTeries  respecting  Uie  identity 
of  Junius  and  Sir  Philip  Francis, 
xxxi.  ^t  ieq.,  xxxviL 

(John),  tried  for  murder,  i. 

468,  464,  n. ;  his  case  stated,  ib. 

|*ell-Tnith,  letter  of,  on  Mr.  Brad- 
shaw's  appointment  as  one  of  the 
Lords  of  the  Adminl^,  ii  407, 
408. 


Temple  (Earl),  his  claims  to  the  au- 
thorship of  Junius,  ii.  xvi.  xxii. ;  a 
man  of  literary  taste,  Ixt.  ;  his  inti- 
macy with  Mr.  Almon,  Ixri. ;  his 
rupture  with  Lord  Chatham,  111, 
112,  n. 

Teroporiim  Felicitas,  letter  of,  to  the 
printer  of  the  '  Public  Adrertiser,* 
ii.  241 ;  ironical  encomium  on  Lord 
Hillsborough's  conduct,  ib.  242. 

Testis,  letter  of,  on  Lord  Barrington'f 
conduct  as  Secretary  at  War,  ii. 
810;  reply  to,  by  Testiculus,  311, 
312. 

Thurlow  (Lord),  reply  of  Sir  Philip 
Francis  to,  u.  UL 

Tooke.    See  Horvk. 

Touchet  (Mr.),  in  his  most  prosperous 
fortune  the  same  man  as  at  present, 
i.  359. 

Townshend  (Mr.  Alderman),  com- 
plains that  the  public  gratitude  has 
not  been  equal  to  his  deserts,  i.  411 ; 
returned  as  M.P.  for  the  city  of 
London,  ii.  61,  n. ;  remarks  on, 
97,  n,;  questions  the  legality  of 
the  Land-Tax  Act,  302,  n. ;  ab- 
stract of  the  trial  of  this  question, 
303,  304,  noUs. 

(Hon.  Charles),  Chancel* 


lor  of  the  Exchequer,  ii.  120,  and 
n. ;  character  of,  121. 

(Lord).  Lord  Lieutenant 


of  Ireland,  i.  104,  n.  ii.  120;  re- 
marks on  his  character  and  conduct, 
120,  and  n.  121 ;  said  to  excel  in 
portrait  painting,  ib. ;  outlines  of 
subjects  for  his  pencil  sketched 
by  Correggio  (Junius),  122—124; 
anecdote  of  his  intrepidity,  125,  n,; 
remarks  of  Moderatus  on  the  dis- 
pute relatiye  to  this  anecdote, 
125 — 128  {  Junius  calls  him  a 
'wretched  creature,'  334. 
Tullius.(M.),  his  strictures  on  Jumoi'i 
letters  to  the  Duke  of  Bedford,  i. 
232. 

Yalentinian  III.,  character  of^  ii.  888. 
Valerius,  letter  o^  to  the  printer  td 


456 


INDEX 


the  'Public  Adveriser/  ii.  178; 
that  ministers  have  not  answered 
the  accusation  Uid  against  them  in 
'  the  Duke  of  Portland's  case/ 179 ; 
they  are  charged  with  violating  the 
rights  of  possession,  for  the  pur- 
poses of  undue  influence  at  an  elec- 
tion, and  of  paying  a  base  court  to 
a  clandestine  and  dangerous  power, 
t&. ;  the  chief  points  of  his  grace's 
ease  stated,  ib.  181 ;  they  ought, 
officially,  to  have  seen  the  right  of 
the  crown  to  make  the  grant  to  Sir 
James  Lowther  defended,  and  the  i 
Duke  of  Portland's  title  examined, 
t6. ;  to  the  printer  of  the  *  Public 
Advertiser,'  206;  the  conduct  of 
ministers,  in  dismissing  Sir  J.  Am- 
herst from  the  government  of  Vir- 
ginia, considered,  206 — 208. 

Vaughan  (Mr.),  on  the  public  conduct 
of,  i.  15.  19  ;  sends  proposals  to  the 
Duke  of  Grafton,  249,  250 ;  state 
of  the  fact,  ib.  n. ;  his  offer,  a  high 
misdemeanor,  258 ;  prosecuted  in 
the  Court  of  King's  Bench,  ib,  n. ; 
the  prosecution  dropped,  and  why, 
256,  n, ;  vindicated  by  Junius,  as 
a  much  injured  man,  277. 

Veridicus,  (Mr.  Whitworth),  i.  21,  ii. 
xiz. 

Veteran,  letters  of,  to  Lord  Barring- 
ton,  ii.  392 ;  on  his  lordship's  ap- 
pointment of  a  deputy-secretary,  ib, 
893 ;  charges  Lord  B.  with  raining 
General  Fowke,  397,  and  n. ;  exa- 
mines hit  lordship's  political  tergi- 
Tersations,  398  ;  on  his  changes  in 
the  War  Office,  ib. ;  his  conduct  in 
the  affiiir  of  St  George's  Fields  con- 
sidered, 400;  censures  his  nick- 
naming of  General  Harvey,  ib, ; 
estimates  his  lordsbip's  abilities, 
403 ;  farther  remarks  on  his  lord- 
ship's unprecedented  changes  in  the 
War  Office,  404—406. 

Virginia,  the  goveniment  of,  taken 
from  Sir  J.  Amherst,  ii.  195 ;  this 
measure  considered,  195 — 197. 202 
-^206.  208. 


Wales  (Princess  Dowager  ol),  berlii* 

fluence  with  the  King  examined 
and  exposed,  ii.  ZZl,et  seq. ;  the  de* 
plorable  condition  of  the  countrj 
attributed  to  her,  332;  by  bci 
management  a  war  is  certain,  in* 
stead  of  being  avoided,  336. 

Walpole  (Mr.  Robert),  remarks  on  hii 
case  by  Sir  Wm.  Blackstone,  176, 

'  et  seq. ;  expelled  from  the  House  of 
Commons,  i.  178,  and  n. ;  state  of 
his  case  from  the  journals  of  the 
House  of  Commons,  ib.,  n. ;  his 
case  supposed  to  be  strictly  in  point 
to  prove  that  expulsion  incapad* 
tatesfrom  being  re-elected,  ib,  180 ; 
strictures  thereon  by  Junius,  197, 
et  seq.'f  the  vote  of  expulsion,  as 
expressed  in  the  votes,  198  ;  stric- 
tures on  its  meaning  and  extent,  ib, 
et  seq. ;  declared  incapable  of  being 
elected  M.P.,  202,  n. 

<—  (Horace),  one  of  the  claim- 
ants to  the  Letters  of  Junius,  ii.  xxiv. 

Wedderbume  (Mr.),  biographieal  no- 
tices of,  i.  330. 

Westminster  (Electors  of),  remon- 
strance to  the  King,  on  the  disso- 
lution of  Parliament,  ii.  29 — 31, 
91. ;  election  proceedings  at,  31,  n. 

Weston  (Edward),  supposed  to  vindi- 
cate the  Duke  of  Grafton,  i.  142, 
n. ;  an  example  of  age  without  the 
benefit  of  experience,  143,  144; 
quotation  from  his  supposed  pamph- 
let, with  remarks,  145 ;  denies  thnt 
he  was  the  author,  ih.  n. ;  letters  to 
him  by  Crito.  145,  notes;  remarks 
on  Junius's  letters  to,  146. 

Weymouth  (Lord),  one  of  the  secre- 
taries of  state,  i.  104.  109;  esti- 
mate of  his  talents,  109 ;  his  letters 
to  the  sheriffs  of  London,  297,  298, 
n. ;  resigns  his  office,  353^  n. ;  bio- 
graphical notices  of,  355,  n. 

Wheble  (John),  printer  of  the  '  Mid- 
dlesex Journal,'  arrested  by  ordei 
of  the  House  of  Commons,  aiid 
discharged  by  Wilkes,  ii.  84^ 
849,  M. 


iKi>inc. 


457 


Whig  aristocracy,  historical  notices  of 
the,  i.  168 ;  their  influence  and 
601,170,  171,  n. 

Whipcord's  letter  to  Mr.  Home,  i. 
862,  368,  n, 

Whitefoord  (Mr.  Caleb),  author  of  the 
letter  signed  '  Junia,'  ii.  274,  n. 

Whittam  (W.),  the  messenger  of  the 
House  of  Commons,  committed  by 
Wilkes,  ii.  849 ;  biU  of  indictment 
found  against,  850;  proceedings 
stopped  by  a  nolle  protequi,  867, 
n. ;  arguments  advanced  by  counsel 
against  granting  it,  867 — 874,  n, 

Whittlebury  Forest,  the  Duke  of 
Grafton  hereditary  ranger  of,  i. 
400;  the  right  to  the  timber  claimed 
by  his  grace,  401 ;  the  story  of  the 
oaks  refuted  by  Fhilalethes,  408, 
etseq, 

Whitworth  (Mr.),  wrote  under  the 
signature  of  '  Veridicus,'  i.  21.  iL 
xiz. 

Wildman  (Mr.),  notices  of,  i.  866, 
867, ». 

Wilkes  (John),  proved  not  to  be  the 
author  of  Jnnius's  Letters,  i.  67, 
and  ii.  xxiv. ;  prosecution  of,  for  an 
obscene  poem,  i.  94,  n. ;  editor  of  the 
'North  Briton,'  185;  prosecuted, 
ib. ;  political  contentions  of,  186, 
141 ;  was  a  candidate  for  London, 
before  he  offered  himself  for  the 
county  of  Middlesex,  147,  n. ; 
suffisred  to  appear  at  large,  and  to 
canTass  for  the  city  and  county, 
with  an  outlawry  hanging  over 
him,  tb. ;  the  question  arising  from 
liis  expulsion  stated  with  justice 
and  precision,  175,  and  iL  808,  et 
seq. ;  opposition  to,  commenced 
with  Mr.  Grenville,  i.  187;  was 
not  of  consideration  enough  to 
excite  the  resentment  of  a  king, 
260;  imprisonment  of,  266,  n.; 
his  resistance  to  the  House  of  Com- 
mons nn  the  subject  of  publishing 
their  debates,  829,  880.  839 ;  his 
speech  in  the  House  of  Conunons, 
sn  his  motion  for  erasiiig  the  Totes 
VOL.  n. 


and  resolutions  against  him,  842, 
el  leq.  n. ;  detail  of  circumstance! 
relating  to  that  erasure,  844,  ».; 
extracts  from  his  letters,  relative  to 
his  dispute  with  Mr.  Home,  865 — 
870,  note*,  876,  n.;  commissions  Mr 
Thomas  Walpole  to  solicit  a  pennon 
for  him,  881 ;  receives  200Z.  per 
annum  from  the  Duke  of  Portland 
and  Lord  Rockingham,  382,  and 
n. ;    has  no  resource  but ,  in  the 
public  faTour,  410 ;    presents  re- 
ceived by,  while  in   prison,  477, 
n. ;  extracts  from  Lord  Mansfield's 
speech  on  reversing  his  outlawry, 
478 ;  a  scholar,  a  critic,  and  an 
editor,  ii.  IxxxviiL ;    on   friendly 
terms    with    Sir   Philip    Francis, 
Ixxxix.;  Lord  Brougham's  opinion 
of,  ib, ;     the  conclusion    of  a  let- 
ter of  his  to  Mr.  Home,  88,  n.; 
letter  of,  on  Mr.  Gbrrick's  perform- 
ing the  character  of  UcuHngs,  43 ; 
private  letters  of  Junius  to  him,  68, 
et  seq, ;  Junius  assures  him  of  his 
support,  ih.'y  his  connection  with 
Mr.  Sawbridge  considered,  65,  d 
eeq.  ;  a  plan  proposed  for  recon- 
ciling them,  69 ;   the  conduct  of 
the  supporters  of  the  Bill  of  Bights 
censured,  70 — 75 ;  examination  of 
the  articles  of  their  declaration, 
75—82;  Mr.  Wilkes's  vindication 
of  his  conduct,  88,  et  seq.;  to  Ju- 
nius, on  the  reading  of  his  second 
letter  before   the  Bill  of  Bights 
Society,   98 — 95;  to  Junius,  98; 
on  his  proposed  card,  excusing  him- 
self from  going  to  St.  Paul's,  ib. ; 
to  Junius,  on  perusing  his   dedi- 
cation and  pre&ce,   102;   on  the 
commitment  of  Eyre,  108  ;  on  the 
Bill  of  Rights  Society,  105—107 ; 
reasons    for  his  acerbity    against 
the  Duke  of  Grafton,  109 ;  view 
of  his  circumstances  on  his  return 
from  France,  16if etseq.;  disgrace- 
ful scene  at  the  hustings,  165, 166; 
he  could   never    have  been    per* 
mitted  to  go  such  lengths  if  all  had 

HH 


458 


INDEX. 


been  well  between  Lord  Bute  and 
ministers,  167;  riots  on  his  ac- 
Gonnt,  183;  his  duel  with  Mr.  Tal- 
bot, 212;  remarks  on  his  expulsion 
from  the  Commons,  266,  267,  n.; 
commits  the  messenger  of  the 
House  of  Commons  for  assault, 
849. 

Wilkes  (Miss),  Tirtues  of,  ii.  19,  «. 

Wilmot  (Rev.  Dr.),  noticed  as  one  of 
the  claimants  to  the  Letters  of 
Junius,  ii.  xvii.  zxt. 

Wollaston  (Mr.),  expelled,  re-elected, 
and  admitted  into  the  same  par- 
liament, i.  200 ;  the  public  lef :  to 
determine  whether  this  be  a  plain 
matter  of  fcict,  205. 

Woodfail  (H.  S.),  proofs  of  his  strict 
veracity,  i.  6,  76 ;  Junius  gives 
the  property  of  his  Letters  to 
him,  91 ;  prosecution  of,  for  pub- 
lishing Junius's  letter  to  the  King, 
255,  tt.  266.  270.  806,  ».;  ac- 
count of  his  trial,  471  ;  his  pe- 
tition to  the  House  of  Commons, 
473 ;    list  of  fees  paid  by,  474 ; 

•  letter  of  David  Gkirrick  to,  477; 
letters  of  Junius  personally  deli- 
vered to,  ii.  xlii. ;  published  a  col- 
lective edition  oi^  in  1772,  Ixxvi. ; 
private  letters  of  Junius  to  him, 
relative  to  the  printing  and  pab- 
lilhing  of  his  Letters,  1 ;  relative 
to   his  prosecution,  28 — 88:   his 


expenses  on  this  account,  28,  «. 
letters  of  Mr.  Woodfail  to  JuuiaSi 
86,  n,  60,  61. 
Wray  (Daniel),  one  of  the  claimants 
to  the  Letters  of  Junius,  ii.  xxiv. ; 
letter  of,  to  Lord  Hardwicke,  Ixv. ; 
anecdote  of,  Ixxix. ;  had  no  doubt 
of  Sir  Philip  Francis  being  the 
author  of  Junius,  ib.  n. 

X.  X.,  letters  of,  to  the  printer  of  the 
'  PubKc  Advertiser,'  ii.  284.  287, 
288;  General  Gansel's  affiur  ex- 
amined, 292. 

Yates,  Sir  Joseph,  character  o^  L 
310, ». 

Yorke  (Charles),  his  appointment  as 
Lord  Chancellor,  i.  273,  n.;  cut 
his  throat  immediately  after  his 
appointment  to  the  chancellorship, 
316,  n. 

Y.  Y.,  in  answer  to  X.  X.,  ii  284, 
et  seq. 

Y.  Z.,  letter  of,  to  the  printer  of  the 
'Public  Advertiser,*  ii.  137;  re- 
ports of  a  certain  speech  in  Parlia- 
ment, ib,  ei  teq, 

Zeno's  letter  to  Junius  in  vindication 
of  Lord  Mansfield,  i.  421,  st  s<q. 
notes;  reply  to  him,  bj  Plulo 
Junins,  «6.  —  429. 


londoh:  panrrsD  bt  william  clowbs  and  sons,  ldcitbd^ 

SrAHVOSD  STRBBT  AND  CHABINO  GB0S8. 


CATALOGUE  OF 

BOHN'S   LIBRARIES. 


716  V oh  lines,  ;£'i5S  9^-. 


The  Publishers  are  mw  issuing  the  Libraries  in  a  NEW  AND 
MORE  ATTRACTIVE  STYLE  OF  BINDING.  The  original 
bindings  endeared  to  many  book-lovers  by  association  will  still  be 
kept  in  stocky  but  henceforth  all  orders  will  be  executed  in  the  New 
bindings  unless  the  contrary  is  expressly  stated. 


New  Volumes  of  Standard  Works  in  the  various  branches  of 
Literature  are  constantly  being  added  to  this  Series^  which  is 
already  unsurpassed  in  respect  to  the  number^  variety^  and  ckec^ness 
of  the  Works  contained  in  it.  The  Publishers  beg  to  announce  the 
following  Volumes  as  recently  issued  or  now  in  preparation  : — 

Johnson's  Lives  of  the  Poets.    Edited  by  Mrs.  Napier.     3  Vols.     [Seep.  6. 

The  Works  of  Flavius  Josephus.  Whiston's  Translation.  Revised  by 
Rev.  A.  R.  Shilleto,  M.A.  With  Topographical  and  Geographical  Notes  by  Colonel 
SirC.  W.Wilson,  K.C.B.    5  volumes.  [Seep.fi. 

North's  Lives  of  the  Norths.    Edited  by  Rev.  Dr.  Jessopp.    3  vols. 

[Seep.  7. 

Goethe's  Faust.     Part  I.     The  Original  Text,  with  Ilayward's  Translation 

and  Notes,  carefully  revised,  with  an  Introduction  and  Bibliography,  by  C.  A.  Buch- 

heim,  Ph.D.,   Professor  of  German   Language  and  Literature   at   King's  College, 

London .  f /«  the  Press. 

Arthur  Young's  Tour  in  Ireland.    Edited  by  A.  W.  Hutton,  Librarian, 

National  Liberal  Club.  [Preparing;. 

Ricardo  on  the  Principles  of  Political  Economy  and  Taxation.    Edited 

with  Notes  by  E.  C.  K.  Conner,  M.A.,  Lecturer,  University  College,  Liverpool. 

[In  the  press. 

Schopenhauer's  Essays.    Selected  and  Translated.    By  E.  Belfort  Bax. 

[In  the  press. 

Edgeworth's  Stories  for  Children.    With  8  Illustrations  by  L.  Speed. 

[See  p.  A* 

Racine's  Plays.      Second  and  Concluding  Volume.    Translated  by  R.  B. 
Boswell.  {_Seep.  7« 

Hoffmann's  Works.    Translated  by  Lieut. -Colonel  Ewing.     Vol.  II. 

[In  the  press. 

Bohn's  Handbooks  of  Games.  New  enlarged  edition.  In  2  vols. 

See  p.  21. 

Vol.  L — Table  Games,  by  Major-General  Drayson,  R.A.,  R.  F.  Green,  and  'Berkeley.' 

II.— Card  Games,  by  Dr.  W.  Pole,  F.R.S.,  R.  F.  Green,  'Berkeley,  and  Baxter- 
Wray. 

Bohn's  Handbooks  of  Athletic  Sports. 

[3  vols,  ready.  See  p.  ax. 
By  Hon.  and  Rev.  E.  Lyttelton,  H.  W.  Wilberforce,  Julian  Marshall,  Major  Spens, 
Rev.  J.  A.  Arnan  Tail,  W.  T.  Linskill,  W.  B.  Woodgate,  E.  F.  Knight,  Martin 
Cobbett,  Douglas  Adams,  Harry  Vassall,  C.  W.  Alcock,  E.  T.  Sachs,  H.  H.  Griffin, 
R.  G.  Allanson-Winn,  Walter  Armstrong,  H.  A.  Colmore  Dunn,  C.  Phillipps-WoUey, 
F.  S.  Creswell,  A.  F.  Jenkin. 


For  BO  HNS  SELECT  LIBRARY,  step.  23. 


February^  1 89 1. 


BONN'S     LIBRARIES. 


STANDARD   LIBRARY. 

336  Vols,  at  3J.  6i/.  eack^  excepting  those  marked  otherwise,    (59/.  loj.  6d, ) 


ADDISON'S  ^Vorks.  Notes  of  Bishop 
Hard.  Short  Memoir.  Portrait,  and  8 
Plates  of  Medals.    6  vols. 

This  is   the  most  complete   edition  of 
Addison's  Works  issued. 

▲LFIERI'S  Tragedies.  In  Eneli&h 
Verse.  With  Notes,  Arguments,  and  In- 
troduction, by  E.  A.  Bowring,  C.B.  a  vols. 

AMERICAN  POETRY.  —  See  Poetry 
of  America. 

BACON'S  Moral  and  Historical 
"Works,  including  Essays,  Apophthegms, 
Wisdom  of  the  Ancients,  New  Atlantis, 
Henry  VII.,  Henry  VIII.,  Elizabeth, 
Henry  Prince  of  Wales,  History  of  Great 
Britam,  Julius  Caesar^and  Anpistus  Caesar. 
With  Critical  and  Bio^phical  Introduc- 
tion and  Notes  by  J.  Devey,  M.A.  Por- 
trait. 

— —  See  also  Philosophical  Library, 

BAULADS  AND  SONGS  of  the  Pea- 
santry of  England,  from  Oral  Recitation, 
private  MSS.,  Broadsides,  &c  Edit,  by 
R.  Bell. 

BEAUMONT      AND      FLETCHER. 

Selections.  With  Notes. and  Introduction 
by  Leigh  Hunt. 

BECKMANN  (J.)  History  of  fiaveii* 

tions,  ^  Discoveries,  and  Origins.  With 
Portraits  of  Beckmann  and  James  Watt. 
2  vols. 

BEIiL  (Robert).— 5'm  Ballads,  Chaitcert 
Green, 

BOSWELL'B  Life  of  Johnson,  with 
the  TOUR  in  the  HEBRIDES  and 
TOHNSONIANA.  New  Edition,  with 
Notes  and  Appendices,  by  the  Rev.  A. 
Napier,  M.A,  Trinity  College,  Cam- 
bridge,^ Vicar  of  Holkham,  Editor  of  the 
Cambridge  Edition  of  the  'Theological 
Works  of  Barrow/  With  Frontispiece  to 
each  voL    6  vols. 

BRBMBR'S  (Frederlka)  Works. 
Trsns.  by  M.  Howitt.  Portrait.  4  vc's. 


BRINK    (B.    ten).     Early    Engrlish 

Literature  (to  Wiclif).     By  Bemhard  tan 
Brink.    Trans,  by  Prof.  H.  M.  Kennedy. 

BROWNE'S  (Sir  Thomas)  Works. 
Edit,  by  S.  Wilkin,  with  Dr.  Johnson's 
Life  of  Browne.    Portrait.    3  volf . 

BURKE'S  Works.    6  vols. 

Speeches  on  the  Impeachment 

of  Warren  Hastings ;  acd  Letters.    2  vols. 

Life.    By  Sir  J.  Prior.    Portrait. 

BURNS  (Robert).  Life  of.  By  J.  G. 
Lockhart,  D.C.L.  A  new  and  enlarged 
edition.  With  Notes  and  Appendices  by 
W.  Scott  Douglas.    Portrait. 

BUTLER'S  (Bp.)  Analogy  of  Reli- 
gion, Natural  and  Revealed,  to  the  Con> 
stitution  and  Course  of  Nature  *  with  Two 
Dissertations  on  Identity  and  Virtue,  and 
Fifteen  Sermons.  With  Introductions, 
Notes,  and  Memoir.    Portrait. 

CAMOEN'S  Lnsladf  or  the  Discovery 
of  India.  An  Epic  Poem.  Trans,  from 
the  Portuguese,  with  Dissertation,  His- 
torical Sketch,  and  Life,  by  W.  J.  Mickle. 
5th  edition. 

CARAFAS     (The)     of    MaddalonL 

Naples  under  Spanish  Dominion.  Trans. 
from  the  German  of  Alfred  de  Reumcxit. 
Portrait  of  Massaniello. 

CARREL.    The  Connter-Revolntlon 

in  England  for  the  Re-establishment  of 
Popery  under  Charles  II.  and  James  II., 
by  Armand  Carrel ;  with  Fox's  History  of 
Tames  II.  and  Leva  Lonsdale's  Memoir  of 
jaBies  II.    Portrait  of  (barrel. 


O  ARRUTHER8.  —  Seo 

irmted  LUfrary, 


Pop*,  hi  lUut' 


CART'S  Dante.  The  Vision  of  Hell, 
Purratory,  and  Paiadise.  Trans,  by  Rev. 
H.  F.  Cuy,  M.A.  With  Life,  Chronolo- 
gical Vwtf  of  his  Aee,  Notes,  and  Index 
of  Proper  Names.    Portrait. 

This  is  the  authentic  edition,  containing 
Mr.  Gary's  last  corrections,  with  additioniu 
notes. 


BOffirS  LIBRARIES. 


CELLINI  (Benvenato).    Memoirs  of, 

by  himself.    With  Notes  of  G.  P.  Carpani. 
Trans,  by  T.  Roscoe.    Portrait. 

CERVANTES'  Galatea.  A  Pastoral 
Romance.    Trans,  by  G.  W.  J .  Gyll. 

Exemplary  Novels.     Trans,   by 

W.  K.  Kelly. 

Don   Qnlxote  de   la   Mancha. 

Motteux's  Translation  revised.  With  Lock- 
hart's  Life  and  Notes,    a  vols. 

CHAUCER'S  Poetical  Works.  With 
Poems  formerly  attributed  to  him.  With  a 
Memoir,  Introduction,  Notes,  and  a  Glos- 
sary, by  R.  Bell.  Improved  edition,  with 
Preliminary  Essay  by  Rev.  W.  W.  Skcat, 
M.A.    Portrait.    4  vols. 

CLASSIC  TALES,  containing  Rasselas, 
Vicar  of  Wakefield,  Gulliver's  Travels,  and 
The  Sentimental  Journey. 

COLERIDGE'S  (S.  T.)  Friend.  A  Series 
of  Essays  on  Morals,  Politics,  and  Reli- 
gfion.    Portrait. 

Aids  to  Reflection.    Confessions 

of  an  Inquiring  Spirit;  and  Essays  on 
Faith  and  the  Common  Rrayer-book.  New 
Edition,  revised. 

Table-Talk  and  Onmiana.    By 

T.  Ashe,  B.A. 

Lectures  on  Shakespeare  and 

other  Poets.    Edit,  by  T.  Ashe,  B.A. 

Containing  the  lectures  taken  down  in 
X811-12  by  7-  P«  Collier,  and  those  de- 
livered at  Bristol  in  18x3. 

filogrraphia  Uteraria;  or,  Bio- 
graphical Sketches  of  my  Literary  Life 
and  Opinions;  with  Two  Lay  Sermons. 

Miscellanies,   JEstfaetic   and 

Literary ;  to  which  is  added,  The  Theory 
OP  Life.  Collected  and  arranged  by 
T.  Ashe,  B.A 

OOTXSaSSlS&.'-See  Philip. 

CONDE'S  History  of  the  Dominion 

of  the  Arabs  in  Spain.  Trans,  by  Mrs. 
Foster.  Portrait  of  Abderahmen  ben 
Moavia.    3  vols. 

COWPER'B  Complete  Works,  Poeins, 

Correspondence,  and  Translations.  Edit, 
with  Memoir  by  R.  Seuthey.  45  En- 
gravings.   8  vols. 

COXE'8  Memoirs  of  the  Duke  of 

Marlborough.  With  his  original  Corre« 
spondence,  from  family  records  at  Blen* 
heim.  Revised  edition.  Portraits.  3  vols. 
•»♦  An  Atlas^  of  the  plans  of  Marl- 
borough's  campaigns,  4to.  tos.  6d. 


COX£|S  History  of  the  House  of 

Austria.  From  the  Foundation  of  the 
Monarchy  by  Rhodolph  of  Hapsbtu^  to 
the  Death  of  Leopold  II.,  1318-1792.  By 
Archdn.  Coxe.  With  Continuation  from 
the  Accession  of  Francis  I.  to  the  Revolu- 
tion of  1848.    4  Portraits.    4  vols. 

CUNIONGHAM'S  Lives  of  the  most 

Eminent  British  Painters.  With  Notes 
and  16  fresh  Lives  by  Mrs.  Heaton.  3  vois. 

DEFOE'S  Novels  and  Miscellcmeons 

Works.  With  Prefaces  and  Notes,  in- 
eluding  those  attributed  to  Sir  W.  SocM. 
Portrait.     7  vols. 

DE  LOLME'S  Constitution  of  Eng- 
land, in  which  it  is  compared  both  with  the 
Republican  form  of  Government  and  tlie 
other  Monarchies  of  Europe.  Edit.,  with 
Life  and  Notes,  by  J.  Macgregcnr. 

DUNLOP'S  History  of  Fiction.    New 

Edition,  revised.  By  Henry  Wilson. 
2  vols. ,  5^ .  each. 

EDGEWORTH'S  Stories  for  Chil- 
dren.   With  8  Illustrations  by  L.  Speed. 

ELZE'S  Shakespeare.—.S'^^  Shakes^are 

EMERSON'S  Works.    3  vols. 

Vol.  I.  —Essays,  Lectures,  and  Poems. 

Vol.  II.— English  Traits,  Nature,  and 
Conduct  of  Life. 

Vol.  III.— Society  and  Solitude— Letters 
and  Social  Aims — Miscellaneous  Papexs 
(hitherto  uncollected) — May-Day,  &c. 

FOSTER'S  (John)  Life  and  Corre- 
spondence. Edit,  by  J.  E.  Ryland.  Por* 
trait.    2  vols. 

Lectnres  at  Broadmead  Chapel. 

Edit,  by  J.  E.  Ryland.    2  vols. 

*—  Critical  Essays  contributed  to 

the  '  Eclectic  Review.'      Edit,  by  J.  £. 

Ryland.    2  vols. 

Essays :  On  Decision  of  Charac- 
ter;  on  a  Man's  writing  Memoirs  of  Him* 
self;  on  the  epithet  Romantic;  on  the 
aversion  of  Men  of  Taste  to  Evangelical 
Religion. 

—  Essays  on  the  Evils  of  Popular 
Ignorance,  and  a  Discourse  on  the  Pix^a- 
gation  of  Christianity  in  India. 

Essay  on  the  Improvemen    of 

Time,  with  Notes  of  Sermons  and  other 
Pieces. 

"—  Fosteriana :  selected  from  periodical 
papers,  edit,  by  H.  G.  Bohn. 

FOX  (Rt.  Hon.  C.  J.)— v^m  Caml. 


STANDARD  LIBRARY. 


GIBBON'S  Decline  and  Fall  of  tbe 

Roman  Empire.  Complete  and  unabridged, 
with  variorum  Notes;  including  those  of 
Guizot,  Wenck,  Niebuhr,  Hugo,  Neander, 
and  others.    7  vols.    3  Maps  and  Portrait. 

CK>ETHE*S  Works.  Trans,  into  English 
by  E.  A.  Bowring,  C.B.,  Anna  Swanwick, 
Su:  Walter  Scott,  &c.  &c.    14  vols. 

Vols.  I.  and  II. — ^Autobiography  and  An- 
nals.   Portrait. 

Vol.  III.— Faust.    Complete. 

Vol.  IV.— Novels  and  Tales :  containing 
Elective  Affinities,  Sorrows  of  Werther, 
The  German  Emigrants,  The  Good  Wo- 
men, and  a  Nouvelette. 

Vol.  v.— Wilhelm  Meister's  Apprentice- 
ship. 

Vol.  Vl.^Honversations  with  Eckerman 
and  Soret. 

Vol.  VII.— Poems  and  Ballads  in  theori- 

S'nal  Metres,  including  Hermann  and 
orothea. 

Vol.  VIII.- Gatz  von  Beriichingen,  Tor- 
quato  Tasso,  Egmont,  Iphigenia,  Clavigo, 
Wayward  Lover,  and  Fellow  Culprits. 

Vol.  IX.  — Wilhehn  Meister's  Travels. 
Complete  Edition. 

Vol.  X.  —  Tour  in  Italy.  Two  Parts. 
And  Second  Residence  in  Rome. 

Vol.  XI. — Miscellaneous  Travels,  Letters 
from  Switzerland,  Campaign  in  France, 
Siege  of  Mainz,  and  Rhine  Tour. 

Vol.  XII.— Early  and  Miscellaneous 
Letters,  including  Letters  to  his  Mother, 
with  Biography  and  Notes. 

Vol.  XIII. — Correspondence  with  Zelter. 

Vol.  XIV.-  Reineke  Fox,  West-Eastern 
Divan  and  Achilleid.  Translated  in 
original  metres  by  A.  Rogers. 

Correspondence  with  SchlUer. 

2  vols. — See  Schiller, 

— —  Fanst. — See  Collegiate  Series. 

GK>LDSMITH'S  Works.    5  vols. 

Vol.  I.— Life, Vicar  of  Wakefield,  Essays, 
and  Letters. 

Vol.  II.— Poems,  Plays,  Bee,  Cock  Lane 
Ghost. 

Vol.  III.— The  Citizen  of  the  Worid, 
Polite  Learning  in  Europe. 

Vol.  IV.— Biographies,  Criticisms,  Later 
Essays. 

Vol.  v.  — Prefaces,  Natural  History, 
Letters,  Goody  Two-Shoes,  Index. 

GREENE,   MARLOWE,    and   BEN 

JONSON  (Poems  oQ.    With  Notes  and 
Memoirs  by  R.  Bell. 

GREGORT'S    (Dr.)    The  Evidences, 

Doctrines,  and  Duties  of  the  Christian  Re- 
ligion. 

GRIMM'S  Honsehold  Tales.  With  the 
Original  Notes.  Trans,  by  Mrs.  A.  Hunt. 
Introduction  by  Andrew  Lang,  M.A.  a 
vols. 


OUIZOT'S  History  of  Representative 

Government  in  Europe.    Trans,  by  A.  R. 
Scoble. 

English  Revolution  of  1640.  From 

the  Accession  of  Charles  I.  to  his  Death. 
Trans,  by  W.  Hazlitt.    Portrait. 

History  of  Civilisation.   From  the 

Roman  Empire  to  the  French  RevoludoB. 
Trans,  by  W.  Hazlitt.    Portraits.    3  vols. 

HALL'S  (Rev.  Robert)  Works  and 

Remains.     Memoir  by  Dr.  Gregory  and 
Essay  by  J.  Foster.    Portrait. 

HAUFF'S  Tales.  The  C^aravan— The 
Sheikh  of  Alexandria — The  Inn  in  the 
Spessart.    Translated  by  Prof.  S.  Mendel. 

HAWTHORNE'S  Tales.   3  vols. 

Vol.  I. — ^Twice-told  Tales,  and  the  Snow 
Image. 

Vol.  II. — Scarlet  Letter,  and  the  Hoase 

with  Seven  Gables. 

Vol.  III. —Transformation,  and  Blithe 
dale  Romance. 

HAZLFTT'S  (W.)  Works.  7  vols. 
Table-Talk. 

The  Literature  of  the  Age  of 

Elizabeth  and  Characters  of  Shakespeare's 
Plays. 

English  Poets  and  English  Comlo 

Writers. 

The  Plain  Speaker.    Opinions  on 

Books,  Men,  and  Things. 

—  Round  Table.  Conversations  ^  of 
James  Northcote,  R.A. ;  Characteristics. 

Sketches  and  Essays,  and  Winter- 
slow. 

Spirit  of  the  Age;  or,  Contem- 
porary Portraits.  New  Edition,  by  W. 
Carew  Hazlitt. 

HEINE'S  Poems.  Translated  in  the 
original  Metres,  with  Life  by  E.  A.  Bow- 
ring,  C.B. 

— —  Travel-Pictures.  The  Tour  in  the 
Harz,  Nordemey,  and  Book  of  Ideas,  to- 

g ether  with  the  Romantic  School.    Trans, 
y  F.  Storr.    With  Maps  and  Appendices. 

HOFFMANN'S  Works.  The  Serapioa 
Brethren.  Vol.  I.  Trans,  by  Lt.-CoL 
Ewing.  iVol.  //.  tM  the  fren. 

HOOPER'S     (G.)     Waterloo :     The 

Downfall  of  the  First  Napoleon  :  a  His- 
tory of  the  Campaign  of  1815.  By  George 
Hooper.  With  Maps  and  Plans.  New 
Edition,  revised. 


BOffirS  LIBRARIES. 


HUGO'S  (Victor)  Dramatic  WorkBi 

Hemani  -Ruy  Bias— The  King's  Diversion. 
Translated  by  Mrs.  Newton  Crosland  and 
F.  L.  Slous. 
— —  Poems,  chiefly  Lyrical.     Collected  by 
H.  L.  Williams. 

HUNQAKY:  its  HUtory  and  Revo- 

luticHi,  with  Memoir  of  Kossuth.    Portrait. 

HUTCHINSON   (Colonel).    Memotrs 

of.  By  his  Widow,  with  her  Autobio- 
graphy, and  the  Siege  of  L>atbom  House. 
Portrait. 

IRVING'S    OVashington)    Complete 

Works.    15  vols. 
-—  Life  and  Letters.    By  his  Nephew, 
Pierre  E.    Irving.     With    Index   and   a 
Portrait.    2  vols. 

JAMES'S  (Q.  P.  R.)  Life  of  Richard 

Cceur  de  Lion.  Portraits  of  Richard  and 
Philip  Augustus.    2  vols. 

•—  Lonls  XIV.    Portraits.    2  vols. 

JAMESON   (Mrs.)     Shakespeare's 

Heroines.  (Characteristics  of  Women.  By 
Mrs.  Jamesdn. 

JEAN  PAUL.— .y«*  Richter, 

JOHNSON'S    Lives    of   the    Poets. 

Edited,  with  Notes,  by  Mrs.  Alexander 
Napier.  And  an  Introduction  by  Pro- 
fessor J.  W.  Hales,  M.A.     3  vols. 

JONSON  (Ben).  Poems  of,/— See  Greene, 

JOSEPHUS  (Flavins),  The  Works  of. 

Whiston's  Translation.  Revised  by  Rev. 
A.  R.  Shilleto,  M.A.  With  Topographical 
and  Geographical  Notes  by  Colonel  Sir 
C.  W.  Wilson,  K.C.B.    5  vols. 

JUNIUS'S  Letters.  With  Woodfall's 
Notes.  An  Essay  on  the  Authorship.  Fac- 
similes of  Handwriting.    2  vols. 

LA  FONTAINE'S  Fables.  In  English 
Verse,  with  Essay  on  the  Fabulists.  By 
Elizur  Wright. 

LAMARTINE'S  The  Olrondlsts.  or 
Personal  Memoirs  of  the  Patriots  of  the 
French  Revolution.  Trans,  by  H.  T. 
Ryde.  Portraits  of  Robespierre,  Madame 
Roland,  and  Charlotte  Corday.    3  vols. 

The  Restoration  of  Monarchy 

in  France  (a  Sequel  to  The  Gm>ndist8|. 
5  Portraits.    4  vols. 

— >  The  French  Revolntlon  of  1848. 

Portraits. 

LAMB'S  (Charles)  Ella  and  EUana. 

Complete  Edition.    Portrait. 


LAMB'S    (Charles)    Spectmena     of 

English  Dramatic  Poets  of  the  time  of 
Elizabeth.  With  Notes  and  the  ExtracU 
(rom  the  Ganrick  Plays. 

Talfonrd's  Letters  of  Charles 

Lamb.  New  Edition,  by  W.  Carew 
Hazlitt.    9  vols. 

LANZI'S  History  of  Fainting  In 
Italy,  from  the  Period  of  the  Revival  of 
the  Fine  Arts  to  the  End  of  the  i8th 
Century.  With  Memoir  and  Portraits. 
Trans,  by  T.  Roscoe.    3  vols. 

LAFPENBERO'S  England  nnder  the 

Anglo-Saxon  Kings.  Trans,  by  B.Thorpe, 
F.S.A.    2  vols. 

LESSING'S  Dramatic  Works.  Com- 
plete. By  E.  Bell,  M.A.  With  Memoir 
by  H.  Zimmem.    Portrait.    2  vols. 

Laokoon,  Dramatic  Notes,  and 

Representation  of  Death  by  the  Ancients. 
Trans,  by  E.  C.  Beasley  and  Helen 
Zimmern.     Frontispiece. 

LOCKE'S  Philosophical  Works,  con- 
taining Human  Understanding,  Controversy 
with  Bishop  of  Worcester,  Maiebranche's 
Opinions,  Natural  Philosophy,  Reading 
and  Study.  With  Introduction,  Analysis, 
and  Notes,  by  J.  A.  St.  John.  Portrait, 
a  vols. 

— —  Life  and  Letters,  with  Extracts  from 
his  Common-place  Books.    By  Lord  King. 

LOCKHART  (J.  Q.ySte  Bums. 

LUTHER'S  Table-Talk.  Trans,  by  W. 
Hazlitt.  With  Life  by  A.  Chalmers,  and 
LuTHBs's  Catechism.  Portrait  after 
Cranach. 

Antobiography.— 5"^^  MickeUt. 

MACHIAVELLI'S  History  of  Flo- 
rence, Thb  Prince,  Savonarc^  Historical 
Tracts,  and  Memoir.    Portrait. 

MARLOWE.    Poems  ofm—Stg  Greene, 

MARTINEATTS    (Harriot)    History 

of  England  (including  Historyof  the  Peace) 
from  X800-X846.    5  yds. 

MENZEI/S  History  of  Gormanyi 

from  the  Earliest  Period  to  the  Crimean 
War.       Portraits.    3  vols. 

MICHELET'S  Antoblography  of 
Luther.  Trans,  by  W.  Hazlitt.  With 
Notes. 

—  The  French  Revolntion  to^  tiie 

Fhght  of  the  King  in  1791.     Fronti^^piece. 

BnONETS  The  French  BovolntiOBf 

from  1789  to  18x4.    Portrait  of  Napol< 


STANDARD  LIBRARY. 


MILTON'S  Prose  Works.  With  Pr&. 
face,  Preliminary  Remark.*  by  J.^  A.  St. 
John,  and  Index.    5  vols.    Portraits. 


—  Poetical  Works. 

Engravings.    2  vols. 


With  120  Wood 


MIT  FORD'S   (Miss)   Our  Village. 

Sketches  of  Rural  Character  and  Scenery. 
9  Engravings.    2  vols. 

MOLIERE'S    Dramatic    Works.     In 

English  Prose,  by  C.  H.  Wall.  With  a 
Life  and  a  Portrait.    3  vols. 

'  It  is  not  too  much  to  say  that  we  have 
here  probably  as  ^ood  a  translation  of 
Moliere  as  can  be  given.' — Academy, 

MONTAGU.    Letters  and  Works  of 

Lady  Mary  Wortley  Montagu.  Lord 
Whamcliffe  s  Third  Edition.  Edited  by 
W.  Moy  Thomas.  New  and  revised 
editicn.  With  steel  plates.  2  vols.  55. 
each. 

MONTESQUIEU'S    Spirit  of  Laws. 

Revised  Edition,  with  D'Alembert's  Analy- 
sis, Notes,  and  Memoir.    2  vols. 

NEANDER  (Dr.  A.)    History  of  the 

Christian  Religion  and  Church.  Trans,  by 
J.  Torrey.    With  Short  Memoir,    xo  vols. 

Life  of  Jesus  Christ,  In  Its  His- 
torical Connexion  and  Development. 

The  Planting  and  Training  of 

the  Christian  Church  by  the  Apostles. 
With  the  Antignosticus,  or  Spirit  of  Ter- 
tullian.    Trans,  by  J.  E.  Ryland.    2  vols. 

Lectures    on    the    History    of 

Christian  Dogmas.  Trans,  by  J.  £.  Ry- 
land.   2  vols. 

Memorials  of  Christian  UfB  in 

the  Early  and  Middle  Ages;  including 
Light  in  Dark  Places.  Trans,  by  J.  £. 
Ryland. 

NORTH'S  Lives  of  the  Right  Hon. 

Francis  North,  Baron  Guildford,  the  Hon. 
Sir  Dudley  North,  and  the  Hon.  and  Rev. 
Dr.  John  North.  By  the  Hon.  Roger 
Nortn.  Editedby  A.  Jessopp,  D.D.  With 
3  Portraits.     3  vols.    3J.  td,  each. 

•  Lovers  of  good  literature  will  rejoice  at 
the  appearance  of  a  new,  handy,  and  com- 
plete edition  of  so  justly  famous  a  book, 
and  will  congratulate  themselves  that  it 
has  found  so  competent  and  skilful  an 
editor  as  Dr.  Jessopp.' — Times. 

OCKLEY  (S.)  History  of  the  Sara- 
cens and  their  Conquests  in  Syria^  Persia, 
and  Egypt.  Comprising  the  Lives  of 
Mohammed  and  his  Successors  to  the 
Death  of  Abdalmelik,  the  Eleventh  Caliph. 
By  Simon  Ockley,  B.D.,  Portrait  of  Mo- 
hammed. 

PASCAL'S  Thoughts.  Translated  from 
the  Text  of  M.  Auguste  Molinier  by 
C.  Kegan  Paul.     3rd  edition. 


PERCY'S  Rellqnes  of  Ancient  En 

lish  Poetry,  consisting  of  Ballads,  Son^a^ 
and  other  Pieces  of  our  earlier  Poets,  mtmCIj 
some  few  of  later  date.    With  Essay  00 
Ancient  Minstrels,  and  Glossary.    2  vols. 

PHILIP  DE  COMMINES.    MemolTW 

of.  Containing  the  Histories  of  Louis  X.I. 
and  Charles  VIII.,  and  Charles  the  Bold, 
Duke  of  Burgundy.  With  the  History  of 
Louis  XI.,  by  Jean  de  Troyes.  Trans- 
lated, with  a  Life  and  Notes,  by  A.  R. 
Scoble.    Portraits.     2  vols. 

PLUTARCH'S  LIVES.  Translated,  with 
Notes  and  Life,  by  A.  Stewart,  M.A., 
late  Fellow  of  Trinity  College,  Cambridge, 
and  G.  Long,  M.A.    4  vols. 

POETRY  OF  AMERICA.    Selections 

from  One  Hundred  Poets,  from  X776  to 
1876.^  With  Introductory  Review,  and 
Specimens  of  Negro  Melody,  by  W.  J. 
Linton.    Portrait  of  W.  Whitman. 

RACINE'S  (Jean)  Dramatic  Works. 

A  metrical  English  version,  with  Bio- 
graphical notice.  By  R.  Bruce  Boswell, 
M.A.  Oxon.     2  vols. 


(L.)    History  of  the  Popesi 

their  Church  and  State,  and  their  Conflicts 
with  Protestantism  in  the  x6th  and  z^th 
Centuries.  Trans,  by  E.  Foster.  Portraits. 
3  vols. 

—  History  of  Servia.  Trans,  by  Mrs. 
Kerr.  To  which  is  added,  The  Slave  Pro- 
vinces of  Turkey,  by  Cyprien  Robert. 

History  of  the  Latin  and  Ten- 
tonic  Nations.  1494-1514.  Trans,  by 
P.  A.  Ashworth,  translator  of  Dr.  Gneist  s 
'History  of  the  English  Constitution.' 

REUMONT  (Alfred  de).  -See  Cara/as. 

REYNOLDS'  (Sir  J.)  Literary  IVorks. 

With  Memoir  and  Remarks  by  H.  W. 
Beechy.    3  vols. 

RICHTER  (Jean  Paul).     Leyana, 

a  Treatise  on  Education  ;  together  with  the 
Autobiography,  and  a  short  Memoir. 

-—  Floweri  Fruit,  and  Thorn  Pieces, 

or  the  Wedded  Life,  Death,  and  Marriage 

of  Siebenkaes.  Translated  by  Alex.  Ewing. 

The  only  complete  English  translation. 

ROSCOE'S  (W.)  Life  of  Leo  X^  with 
Notes,  Historical  Documents,  and  Disser- 
tation on  Lucretia  Borgia.  3  Portraits. 
3  vols. 

—  Lorenzo  de'  Medici,  called  'The 
Magnificent,'  with  Copyright  Notes, 
Poems,  Letters,  &c.  With  Memoir  of 
Roscoe  and  Portrait  of  Lorenzo. 

RUSSIA,  History  of,  from  the 
earliest  Period  to  the  Crimean  War.  By 
W.  K.  Kelly.    3  Portraits,    a  vols. 


s 


BOHN'S  LIBRARIES. 


SCHILLER'S  Works.    7  vols. 

Vol.  I.— History  of  the  Thirty  Years' War. 
Rev.  A.  J.  W.Morrison,  M.A.    Portrait. 

Vol.  II. — History  of  the  Revolt  in  the 
Netherlands,  the  Trials  of  Counts  Egmont 
and  Horn,  the  Siege  of  Antwerp,  and  the 
Disturbance  of  France  preceding  the  Reign 
of  Henry  IV.  Translated  by  Rev.  A.  J.  W. 
Morrison  and  L.  Dora  Schmitz. 

Vol.  III.— Don  Carlos.  R.  D.  Boylan 
—Mary  Stuart.  Mellish -- Maid  of  Or- 
leans.  Anna  Swanwick — Bride  of  Mes- 
sina. A.  Lod^e,  M.A.  Together  with  the 
Use  of  the  Chorus  in  Tragedy  (a  short 
Essay).    Engravings. 

These  Dramas  are  all  translated  in  metre. 

Vol.  IV.— -Robbers — Fiesco— Love  and 
Intrigue — Demetrius — Ghost  Seer — Sport 
of  Divinity. 

The  Dramas  in  this  volume  are  in  prose. 

Vol.  v.— Poems.    E.  A.  Bowring,  C.B. 

Vol.  VI.— Essays,  iEsthetical  and  Philo- 
sophical, including  the  Dissertation  on  the 
Connexion  between  the  Animal  and  Spiri- 
tual in  Man. 

Vol.  VII.  — Wallenstein's  Camp.  J. 
Churchill.  —  Piccolomini  and  Death  of 
Wallenstein.  S.  T.  Coleridge. — William 
Tell.  Sir  Theodore  Martin,  K.C.B.,  LL.D. 

SCHILLER  and  GOETHE.  Corre- 
spondence between,  from  a.d.  1794-1805. 
Trans,  by  L.  Dora  Schmitz.    2  vols. 

SCHLEGEL   (F.)     Lectures  on  the 

Philosophy  of  Life  and  the  Philosophy  of 
Language.    Trans,  by  A.  J.  W.  Morrison. 

—  The  History  of  Literature,  Ancient 
and  Modern. 

The  Philosophy  of  History.  With 

Memoir  and  Portrait.  Trans,  by  J.  B. 
Robertson. 

—  Modern  History,  with  the  Lectures 
entitled  Casar  and^  Alexander,  and  The 
Bennning  of  our  History.  Translated  by 
L.  Purcell  and  R.  H.  Whitelock. 

—  JEsthetlc    and    Mlscellaneons 

Works,  containing  Letters  on  Christian 
Art,  Essay  on  Gothic  Architecture,  Re- 
marks on  the  Romance  Poetry  of  the  Mid- 
dle Ages,  on  Shakspeare,  the  Limits  of  the 
Beautiful,  and  on  the  Language  and  Wis- 
dom of  the  Indians.    By  E.  J.  Millington. 

SCHLEGEL   (A.  W.)   Dramatic  Art 

and  Literature.  By  J.  Black.  With  Me- 
moir by  Rev.  A.  J.  W.  Morrison.    Portrait. 

SCHUMANN  (Robert),  His  Life  and 

Works.  By  A.  Reissmann.  Trans,  by 
A.  L.  Alger. 

Early  Letters.    Translated  by  May 

Herbftrt.    With  Preface  by  Sir  G.  Grove. 

SHAKESPEARE'S    Dramatic  Art. 

The  History  and  Character  of  Shakspeare's 
Plays.  By  Dr.  H.  Ulrici.  Trans,  by  L. 
Dora  Schmitz.     2  vols. 


SHAKESPEARE    OVilliam).      A 

Literary  Biography  by  Karl  Elze,  Ph.D., 
LL.D.  Translated  by  L.  Dora  Schmitz.  51. 

SHERIDAN'S  Dramatic  llVorks.  With 
Memoir.   Portrait  (after  Reynolds). 

SKEAT  (Rev.  "W.  W.)— ^^^  Chaucer. 

SISMONDI'S  History  of  the  Litera- 
ture of  the  South  of  Europe.  Trans,  by 
T.  Roscoe.    Portraits.    2  vols. 

SMITH'S  (Adam)  Theory  of  Moral 

Sentiments  ;  with  Essay  on  die  First  For- 
mation  of  Languages,  and  Critical  Memoir 
by  Dugald  Stewart. 

Sec  Economic  Library. 

SMYTH'S  (Professor)  Lectures    on 

Modern  History ;  from  the  Irruption  of  the 
Northern  Nations  to  the  close  ofthe  Ameri- 
can Revolution.    2  vols. 

— -  Lectures  on  the  French  Revolu- 
tion.   With  Index.    2  vols. 

SOUTHEY.— ^«  Cowper^  Wesley,  and 
{Illustrated  Library)  Nelson, 

STURM'S    Morning   Communings 

with  God,  or  Devotional  Meditations  for 
Every  Day.  TranS.  by  W.  Johnstone,  M.A. 

SULLY.    Memoirs  of  the  Dnke  of, 

Prime  Minister  to  Henry  the  Great.  With 
Notes  and  Historical  Introduction.  4  Por- 
traits.   4  vols. 

TAYLOR'S    (Bishop    Jeremy)    Holy 

Living  and  Dying,  with  Prayers,  contain- 
ing the  Whole  Duty  of  a  Christian  and  the 
i^s  of  Devotion  fitted  to  all  Occasions. 
Portrait. 

TEN  BRINK.-6Vf  Brink. 

THIERRY'S  Conquest  of  England  by 

the  Normans;  its  Causes,  and  its  Conse- 
quences in  England  and  the  Continent. 
By  W.  Hazlitt.  With  short  Memoir,  a  Por- 
traits.   2  vols. 

ULRICI  (Dr.)— 5"^/  Shakespeare. 

VASARI.  Llvesof  the  most  Eminent 

Painters,  Sculptors,  and  Architects.  By 
Mrs.  J.  Foster,  with  selected  Notes.  Por- 
trait. 6  vols..  Vol.  VI.  being  an  additional 
Volume  of  Notes  by  Dr.  J.  P.  Richter. 

WERNER'S  Templars  in  Cyprus. 
Trans,  by  E.  A.  M.  Lewis. 

WESLEY,  the  Life  of.  and  the  Rise 

and  Progress  of  Methoaism.  By  Robert 
Southey.    Portrait,    is. 

WHEATLEY.  A  Rational  Illustra- 
tion of  the  Book  of  Common  Prayer,  being 
the  Substance  of  everything  Liturgical  in 
all  former  Ritualist  Commentators  upon  the 
subject.    Frontispiece. 

YOUNG  (Arthur)  Travels  in  France, 

Edited  by  Miss  Betham  Edwards.  With 
a  Portrait. 


BIS  TOXICAL  AND  PHILOSOPHICAL  LIBRARIES. 


HISTORICAL    LIBRARY. 

22  Volumes  at  5j.  each,     (5Z.  loj.  per  set.) 


EVELYN'S  Diary  and  Correspond- 

dence,  with  the  Private  Correspondence  of 
Charles  L  and  Sir  Edward  Nicholas,  and 
between  Sir  Edward  Hyde  (Earl  of  Claren- 
don) and  Sir  Richard  Browne.  Edited  from 
the  Original  MSS.  by  W.  Bray,  F.A.S. 
4  vols.  45  Engraving's  (after  Vaadyke, 
Lely,  Kneller,  and  Jamieson,  &c.). 

N.Bji— This  edition  contains  130  letters 
from  Evelyn  and  his  wife,  printed  by  per-, 
mission,  and  contained  in  no  other  edition. 

PEPYS'  Diary  and  Correspondenee. 

With  Life  and  Notes,  by  Lord  Braybrooke. 
4^  vols.  With  Appendix  containing  ad- 
ditional Letters,  an  Index,  and  31  En- 
gravinp^s  (after  Vandyke,  Sir  P.  Lely, 
Holbem,  Kneller,  &c.). 

N.B. — This  is  a  reprint  of  Lord  Bray- 
brooke's  fourth  and  last  edition,  containing 
all  his  latest  notes  and  corrections,  the 
copyright  of  the  publishers. 


JESSE'S  Memoirs  of  the  Court  of 

England  under  the  Stuarts,  including  the 
Protectorate.  3  vols.  With  Index  and  42 
Portraits  (after  Vandyke,  Lely,  &c.). 

> Memoirs  of  the  Pretenders  and 

their  Adherents.    6  Portraits. 

NU GENT'S    (Lord)   Memorials   of 

Hampden,  his  Party  and  Times.  With 
Memoir.  12  Portraits  (after  Vandyke 
and  others). 

STRICKLAND'S  (Agnes)  Lives  of  the 

Queens  of  England  from^  the  Norman 
Con(}uest.  From  authentic  Documen:s, 
public  and  private.    6  Portraits.    6  vols. 

Life  of  Mary  Queen  of  ^  Scots. 

2  Portraits.    2  vols. 

Lives  of  the  Tudor  and  Stuart 

Princesses.    With  2  Portraits. 


PHILOSOPHICAL   LIBRARY. 

16  Vois.  at  Sj.  eachf  excepting  those  marked  otherwise,     {3/.  14^.  per  set.) 


BACON'S  Novum  Organum  and  Ad- 
vancement of  Learning.  With  Notes  by 
J.  Devey,  M.A. 


A  Handbook  of  the  History 

of  Philosophy,  for  the  use  of  Students. 
By  £.  Belfort  Bax,  Editor  of  Kant's 
'  Prolegomena.* 

COMTE'S  Philosophy  of  the  Sciences. 

An  Exposition  of  the  Principles  of  the 
Cours  de  Philosophie  Positive,  By  G.  H. 
Lewes,  Author  cif '  The  Life  of  Goethe.* 

DRAPER  (Dr.  J.  W.)    A  History  of 

the  Intellectual  Development  of  Europe. 
2  vols. 

HEGEL'S  Philosophy  of  History.   By 
J.  Sibree,  M.A. 

KANT'S   Critique   of  Pure  Reason. 
By  J.  M.  D.  Meiklejohn. 

— —  Prolegomena  and  Metaphysical 

Foundations  of  Natural  Science,  with  Bio- 

fraphy  and  Memoir  by  E.  Belfort  Bax. 
'ortrait. 


LOGIC,  or  the  Science  of  Inference. 
A  Popular  Manual.    By  J.  Devey. 

MILLER  (Professor).  History  Philo- 
sophically Illustrated,  from  the  Fall  of  the 
Roman  Emijire  to  the  French  Revolution. 
With  Memoir.     4  vols.    3*.  td.  each. 

SCHOPENHAUER  on  the  Fourfold 

Root  of  the  Principle  of  Sufficient  Reason, 
and  on  the  Will  in  Nature.  Trans,  from 
the  German. 

Essays.     Selected  and  Translated  by 

E.  Belfort  Bax.  [/«  the  press. 

SPINOZA'S  Chief  Works.  Trans,  with 
Introduction  by  R.  H.  M.  Elwes.    2  vols. 

Vol.  I. — Tractatus  Theologico-Politicus 
— Political  Treatise. 

Vol.  II. —  Improvement  o    the  Under- 
standing—Ethics—Letters. 


lO 


BOHirS  LIBRARIES. 


THEOLOGICAL    LIBRARY. 

IS  Vols,  at  $s.  each  {except  Chilling-d'orth,  35.  6^.).     (3^«  '^V*  6d,  per  set.) 


BLEEK.     Introduction  to    the   Old 

Testament.  By  Friedrich  Bleek.  Trans, 
under  Uie  supervision  of  Rev.  E.  Venables, 
Residentiary  Canon  of  Lincoln.    2  vols. 


CHILLINGWORTH'S 

Protestants.    31.  6d. 


Religrion   of 


EUSEBIUS.     Eccleslastlcal  History 

of  Eusebius  Pamphilius,  Bishop  of  Caesarea. 
Trans,  by  Rev.  C.  F.  Cruse,  M.A.  With 
Notes,  Life,  and  Chronological  Tables. 

EVAGBIUS.    History  of  the  Church. 

— See  Tkeodoret. 

HARDWICK.  History  of  the  Articles 

of  Religion ;  to  which  is  added  a  Series  of 
Documents  from  a.d.  1536  to  a.d.  1615. 
Ed.  by  Rev.  F.  Proctor. 

HENRY'S  (Matthew)  Exposition  of 

the  Book  of  Psalms.    Numerous  Woodcuts. 

PEARSON  (John,  D.D.)    Exposition 

of  the  Creed.  Edit,  by  E.  Walford,  M.A. 
With  Notes,  Analysis,  and  Indexes. 


PHHiO-JUDJEUS,    Works    of.      The 

Contemporary  of  Josephus.  Trans,  by 
C.  D.  Yonge.    4  vols. 

PHILOSTORGIUS.    Ecclesiastical 

History  of. — See  Sozofnen, 

SOCRATES'  Eccleslastlcal  History* 

Comprising  a  History  of  the  Church  ftam. 
Constantine,  a.d.  305,  to  the  38th  year  di 
Theodosius  II.  With  Short  Accoont  of 
the  Author,  and  selected  Notes. 

SOZOMEN'S  Eccleslastlcal  History. 

A.D.  324-440.  With  Notes,  Prefatory  Re- 
marks by  Valesius,  and  Short  Memoir. 
Together  with  the  Ecclesiastical  His 
TORY  OF  Philostorgius,  as  epitomised  by 
Photius.  Trans,  by  Rev.  E.  Walford,  M.A. 
With  Notes  and  brief  Life. 

THEODORET  and  EVAGRIUS.    His. 

tories  of  the  Church  from  a.d.  332  to  the 
Death  of  Theodore  of  Mopsuestia,  a.d. 
427  ;  and  from  a.d.  431  to  a.d.  544.  With 
Memoirs. 

WIESELER'S  (Karl)  Chronological 

Synopsis  of  the  Four  Gospels.  Trans,  by 
Rev.  Canon  Venables. 


ANTIQUARIAN    LIBRARY. 

35  Vols,  at  5 J.  ecuh,     (8/.  15J.  per  set,) 


ANGLO-SAXON  CHRONICLE.  —  See 

Bede. 
ASSER'S  Life  of  Alfred.— 6'^r  Six  O.  E. 

Chronicles. 
BEDE'S    fVenerable)    Eccleslastlcal 

History  of  England.  Together  with  the 
Anglo-Saxon  Chronicle.  With  Notes, 
Short  Life,  Analysis,  and  Map.  Edit,  by 
J.  A.  Giles,  D.C.L. 

BOETHIUS'S  Consolation  of  Philo- 
sophy. King  Alfred's  Anglo-Saxon  Ver- 
sion of.  With  an  English  Translation  on 
opposite  pages,  Notes,  Introduction,  and 
Glossary,  by  Rev.  S.  Fox,  M.A.  To 
which  is  added  the  Anglo-Saxon  Version  of 
the  Metres  of  Boethius,  with  a  free 
Translation  by  Martin  F.  Tupper,  D.C.L. 

BRAND'S    Popnlar    Antiquities    of 

Enjrland,  Scotland,  and  Ireland.  Illus- 
trating the  Origin  of  our  Vulgar  and  Pro- 
vincim  Customs,  Ceremonies,  and  Super- 
stitions. By  Sir  Henrj'  Ellis,  K.H.,  F.K.S. 
Frontispiece.    3  vols. 


CHRONICLES    of  the    CRUSADES. 

Contemporary  Narratives  of  Richard  Coeor 
de  Lion,  by  Richard  of  Devizes  and  Geof- 
frey de  Vmsauf ;  and  of  the  Crusade  at 
Samt  Louis,  by  Lord  John  de  Joinville. 
With  Short  Notes.  Illuminated  Fr(mtis* 
piece  from  an  old  MS. 

DYER'S  (T.  F.  T.)    British  Popnlar 

Customs,  Present  and  Past.  An  Accoimt 
of  the  various  Games  and  Customs  asso- 
ciated with  different  Days  of  the  Year  in 
the  Britbh  Isles,  arranged  according  to  the 
Calendar.  By  the  Rev.  T.  F.  Thiseltoa 
Dyer,  M.A. 

EARLY  TRAVELS  IN  PALESTINE. 

Comprising  the  Narratives  of  Arcolfi 
Wilhbald,  Bernard,  Saewulf,  Sigurd,  Ben* 

Smin  of  Tudela,  Sir  John  Maundeville, 
e  la  Brocqui^e,  and  Maundrell ;  all  un- 
abridged. With  Introduction  and  Notes 
by  Thomas  Wright.    Map  of  Jerusalem. 


ANTIQUARIAN  LIBRARY, 


II 


ELLIS  (O.)  SpeolmenB  of  Early  En- 
glish Metricsd  Romances,  relatins;  to 
Arthur,  Merlin,  Guy  of  Warwick,  Richard 
Coeur  de  Lion,  Charlemagne,  Roland,  &c. 
&c.  With  Historical  Introduction  by  J.  O. 
Halliwell,  F.R.S.  Illuminated  Frontis- 
piece from  an  old  MS. 

ETHEL'WERD,     Chronicle  ot.—Ses 

Six  O.  E.  Chronicles, 

FLORENCE    OF    WORCESTER'S 

Chronicle,  with  the  Two  Continuations: 
comprising  Annals  of  English  History 
firom  the  Departure  of  the  Romans  to  the 
Reign  of  Edward  I.  Trans.,  with  Notes, 
by  Thomas  Forester,  M.A. 

OEOFFRET    OF    MONMOUTH. 

Chronicle  oi.—See  Six  O.  E.  Chronicles, 

GESTA    ROMANORUM,   or    Enter. 

taining  Moral  Stories  invented  by  the 
Monks.  Trans,  with  Notes  by  the  Rev. 
Charles  Swan.    Edit,  by  W.  Hooper,  M.A. 

GILD  AS.    Chronicle  ot.—Su  Six  O.  E, 

Chronicles, 

GIRALDUS  CAMBRENSIS'  Histori- 
cal Works.  Containing  Topography  of 
Ireland,  and  History  of  the  Conquest  of 
Ireland,  by  Th.  Forester,  M.A.  Itinerary 
through  Wales,  and  Description  of  Wales, 
by  Sir  R.  Colt  Hoare. 

HENRY  OF  HUNTINGDON'S  His- 
tory of  the  English,  from  the  Roman  In- 
vasion to  the  Accession  of  Henry  11. ; 
with  the  Acts  of  King  Stephen,  and  the 
Letter  to  Walter.  By  T.  Forester,  M.A. 
Frontispiece  from  an  old  MS. 

INGULPH'S  Chronicles  of  the  Abbey 

of  Croyland,  with  the  Continuation  bv 
Peter  of  Blois  and  others.  Trans,  with 
Notes  by  H.  T.  Riley,  B.A. 

KEIGHTLET'S  (Thomae)  Fairy  My- 
thology, illustrative  of  the  Romance  and 
Superstition  of  Various  Countries.  Frontis- 
piece by  Cruikshank. 

LEFSIUS'S    Letters  from  EflTpt, 

Ethiopia,  and  the  Penmsula  of  Sinai ;  to 
which  are  added,  Extracts  from  his 
Chronology  of  the  Egyptians,  with  refer- 
ence to  the  Exodus  of  the  Israelites.  By 
L.  and  J.  B.  Horner.  Maps  and  Coloured 
View  of  Mount  Barkal. 

MALLET'S  Northern  Antiquities,  or 

an  Historical  Account  of  the  Manners, 
Customs,  Religions,  and  Literature  of  the 
Ancient  Scandinavians.  Trans,  by  Bishop 
Percy.  With  Translation  of  the  Prose 
Edda,  and  Notes  by  J.  A.  Blackwell. 
Also  an  Abstract  of  the  '  Eyrbyggia  Saga 
by  Sir  Walter  Scott.  With  Glossary 
and  Coloured  Frontispiece. 


MARCO  POLO'S  Travels;  with  Notes 
and  Introduction.     Edit,  by  T.  Wright. 

MATTHEW  PARIS'S  English  His- 
tory, from  123s  to  1273.  By  Rev.  J.  A. 
Giles,  D.C.L.  With  Frontispiece.  3  vols.— 
See  also  Roger  of  IVendover. 

MATTHEW   OF   WESTMINSTER'S 

Flowers  of  History,  especially  such  as  re- 
late to  the  affairs  of  Britain,  from  the  be- 
einning  of  the  World  to  a.d.  1307.  By 
C.  D.  Yonge.    2  vols. 

NENNIUS.  Chronicle  of,— See  Six 
O.  E,  Chronicles, 

ORDERICUS  VIT  ALIS'  Ecclesiastical 

History  of  England  and  Normandy.  With 
Notes,  Introduction  of  Guizot,  and  the 
Critical  Notice  ©f  M.  DeliUe,  by  T. 
Forester,  M.A.  To  which  is  added  the 
Chronicle  of  St.  Evroult.  With  Gene- 
ral and  Chronological  Indexes.    4  vols. 

PAULFS  (Dr.  R.}  Life  of  Alfred  the 

Great.  To  which  is  appended  Alfred's 
Anglo-Saxon  Version  of  Orosius.  With 
literal  Translation  interpaged.  Notes,  and 
an  Anglo-Saxon  Grammar  and  Glossary, 
by  B.  Thorpe.    Frontispiece. 

RICHARD    OF    CIRENCESTER. 

Chronicle  oU—See  Six  O,  E.  Chronicles. 

ROGER  DE  HOVEDEN'S  Annals  of 

English  History,  comprising  the  History 
of  England  and  of  other  Countries  of  Eu- 
rope from  A.D.  732  to  a.d.  X20X.  With 
Notes  by  H.  T.  Riley,  B.A.    2  vols. 

ROGER  OF  WENDOVER'S  Flowers 

of  History,  comprising  the  History  of 
England  from  the  Descent  of  the  Saxons  to 
A.D.  1235,  formerly  ascribed  to  Matthew 
Paris.  With  Notes  and  Index  by  J.  A. 
Giles,  D.C.L.    2  vols. 

SIX  OLD  ENGLISH  CHRONICLES  : 

viz.,  Asser's  Life  of  Alfred  and  the  Chroni- 
cles of  Ethelwerd,  Gildas,  Nennius,  Geof- 
frey of  Monmouth,  and  Richard  of  Ciren- 
cester. Edit.,  with  Notes,  by  J.  A.  Giles, 
D.C.L.    Portrait  of  Alfred. 

"^LLIAM     OF     MALMESBURY'S 

Chronicle  of  the  Kings  of  England,  from 
the  Earliest  Period  to  King  Stephen.  By 
Rev.  J.  Sharpe.  With  Notes  by  J.  A. 
Giles,  D.CL.    Frontispiece. 

TULE-TIDE  STORIES.  A  Collection 
of  Scandinavian  and  North-German  Popu- 
lar Tales  and  Traditions,  from  the  Swedish, 
Danish,  and  German.   Edit,  by  B.  Thorpe. 


13 


BOHirS  LIBRARIES. 


ILLUSTRATED   LIBRARY, 

80  Vols,  at  5j.  tachf  excepting  those  marked  otherwise.     (19/.  i^s,  6d,  per  set,) 


ALLEN'S  (Joseph,  R.N.)  Battles  of 

the  British  Navy.  Revised  edition,  with 
Inr'.exes  of  Names  and  Events^and  57  Por- 
traits and  Plans,    2  vols. 

ANDERSEN'S  Danish  Fairy  Tales. 

By  Caroline  Peachey.  With  Short  Life 
and  120  Wood  Engravings. 

ARIOSTO'S    Orlando    Fnrioso.     In 

iOnglish  Verse  by  W.  S.  Rose.  With  Notes 
and  Short  Memoir.  Portrait  after  Titian, 
and  24  Steel  Engravings.    2  vols. 

BECHSTEnrs  Cage  and  Chamber 

Birds :  their  Natural  History,  Habits,  &c. 
Together  with  Sweet's  British  War- 
blers. 43  Coloured  Plates  and  Woodcuts. 

BONOMI'S  Nineveh  and  Its  Palaces. 

The^  Discoveries  of  Botta  and  Layard 
applied  to  the  Elucidation  of  Holy  Writ. 
7  Plates  and  294  Woodcuts. 

BUTLER'S    Hndlbras,   with  Variorum 


Notes  and  Biography. 
Illustrations. 


Portrait  and  38 


CATTERMOLE'S  Evenings  at  Had- 

don  Hall.  Romantic  Tales  of  the  Olden 
Times.  With  24  Steel  Engravings  after 
Cattermole. 

CHINA,  Pictorial,  Descriptive,  and 

Historical,  with  some  account  of  Ava  and 
the  Burmese.  Siam,  and  Anam.  Map,  and 
nearly  100  Illustrations. 

CRAIE'S  (G.  L.)  Pnrsnit   of  Know- 

ledge  under  Difficulties.  Illustrated  by 
Anecdotes  and  Memoirs.  Numerous  Wood- 
cut Portraits. 

CRTJIKSHANK'S  Three  Courses  and 

a  Dessert ;  comprising  three  Sets  of  Tales, 
West  Country,  Irish,  and  Legal ;  and  a 
Melange.  With  50  Illustrations  by  Qruik- 
shank. 

— —  Punch  and  Judy.  The  Dialogue  of 
the  Puppet  Show ;  an  Account  of  its  Origin, 
&c.  24  Illustrations  and  Coloured  Plates 
by  Cruikshank. 

DANTE,  in  English  Verse,  by  I.  C.  Wright, 
M.A.  With  Introduction  and  Memoir. 
Portrait  and  34  Steel  Engravings  after 
Flaxman. 


DIDRON'S  Christian  Iconographv; 

a  History  of  Christian  Art  in  the  Middle 
Ages.  By  the  late  A.  N.  Didren.  Trans, 
by  E.  J.  Millington,  and  completed,  with 
Additions  and  Appendices,  by  Mar.^[aret 
Stokes.  2  vols.  With  numerous  Illustrations. 

Vol.  I.  The  History  of  the  Nimbus,  the 
Aureole,  and  the  Glory;  Representations 
of  the  Persons  of  the  Trinity. 

Vol.  II.  The  Trinity ;  Angels ;  Devils 
The  Soul ;  The  Christian  Scheme.  Appen 
dices. 

DTER  (Dr.  T.  H.)  Pompeii :  its  Build- 
ings and  Antiouities.  An  Account  a£  the 
Citv,  with  full  Description  of  the  Remains 
and  Recent  Excavations,  and  an  Itinerary 
for  Visitors.  By  T.  H.  Dyer,  LL.D. 
Nearly  300  Wood  Engravings,  Map,  and 
Plan.    7s.  6d, 

—  Rome:  History  of  the  City,  with 
Introduction  on  recent  Excavations.  8 
Engravings,  Frontispiece,  and  a  Maps. 

GIL    BLAS.     The  Adventures  of. 

From  the  French  of  L^age  by  Smollett. 
24  Engravinp  after  Smirke,  and  xo  Etdi> 
ings  by  Cruikshank.    612  pages.    6s. 

GRIMM'S  Gkimmer  Orethel;  or,  Ger- 

man  Fairy  Tales  and  Popular  Stories, 
containine  42  Fairy  Tales.  By  £d»r 
Taylor.  Numerous  Woodcuts  after  Cnuk- 
shank  and  Ludwig  Grimm.    3^.  6d, 

HOLBEIN'S    Dance    of   Death  and 

Bible  Cuts.    Uptwards  of  150  Subjects,  en- 

Saved  in  facsimile,  with  Introduction  and 
escriptions  by  the  late  Francis  Douce 
and  Dr.  Dibdin. 

INDIA,  Pictorial,  Descriptive,  and 

Historical,  from  the  E^liest  Times,  zoo 
Engravings  on  Wood  and  Map. 

JESSE'S  Anecdotes  of  Dogs.  With 
40  Woodcuts  after  Harvfcy,  Bewick,  and 
others ;  and  34  Steel  Engravings  after 
Cooper  and  Liandseer. 

KING'S  (C.  W.)   Natural  History  of 

Precious  Stones  and  Metals.  Illustra- 
tions.   6s, 

KRUMMACHER'S  Parables.  40  Illus- 
trations. 


ILLUSTRATED  LIBRARY, 


tiODQE'S    Portraits    of  mnstrloiui 

Personages-  of  Great  Britain,  with  Bio- 
nraphic^  and  Historical  Memoirs.  240 
Portraits  engraved  on  Steel,  with  the 
respective  Biographies  unabridged*  Com- 
plete in  8  vols. 

LONOFELLO'WS    Poetical    WorkBy 

including  his  Translations  and  Notes,  ai 
full-page  Woodcuts  by  Birket  Foster  and 
others,  and  a  Portrait. 

—  Without  the  Illustrations,  3*.  td, 

—  Prose  Works.  With  16  full-page 
Woodcuts  by  Birket  Foster  and  others. 

LOUDON'S  (Mrs.)  Entertaining  Na- 
turalist. Popular  Descriptions,  Tales,  and 
Anecdotes,  of  more  than  500  Animals* 
Ntunerous  Woodcuts. 


BfARRTATS  (Capt.,  R.N.)    Master- 

man  Ready  ;  or,  the  Wreck  of  the  Pacific, 
(Written  for  Young  People.)  With  93 
Woodcuts.    3^ .  td, 

Mission;  or,  Scenes  in  Aftrlca. 

(Written  for  Youn^  People.)  Illustrated 
by  Gilbert  and  Dalziel.    3^ .  6^. 

—  Pirate  and  Three  Cutters.  (Writ- 
ten for  Young  People.)  With  a  Memoir. 
8  Steel  Engravings  after  Clarkson  Stan- 
field,  R.A.    3f.  dd, 

— — •  Privateersman.  Adventures  by  Sea 
and  Land  One  Hundred  Years  Ago. 
(Written  for  Young  People.)  8  Steel  En- 
gravings.   3^.  &/. 

—  Settlers  in  Canada.  (Written  for 
Young  People.)  xo  Engravings  by  Gilbert 
and  Dalziel.    3; .  ftd, 

—  Poor  Jack.  (Written  for  Young 
People.)  With  16  Illustrations  after  Clark- 
son  Staniield,  R.A.    3^ .  td, 

Midshipman  Easy.  With  8  full- 
page  Illustrations.    Small  post  8vo.  3J.  td. 

Peter  Simple.  With  8  full-page  Illus- 
trations.   Small  post  8vo.  3^.  dd. 

MAXIVELL'S  Victories  of  'WTellins- 

ton  and  the  British  Armies.    Frontispiece 
and  4  Portraits. 

MICHAEL  ANGELO  and  RAPHAEL, 

Their  Lives  and  Works.    By  Duppa  ana 

guatrem^e  de   Quincy.      Portraits   and 
ngravings,  including  the  Last  Judgment, 
and  Cartoons. 

MHJiER'S  History  of  the  Anglo- 
Saxons,  from  the  Earliest  Period  to  the 
Norman  Conquest.  Portrait  of  Alfred,  Map 
of  Saxon  Britain,  and  12  Steel  Engravings. 

MUDIE^S  History  of  British  Birds. 
Revised  by  W.  C.  L.  Martin.  52  Figures  of 
Birds  and  7  coloured  Plates  of  Eggs, 
a  vols. 


NAVAL   and  MHJTART   HEROflS 

of  Great  Britain ;   a  Record   of   British 
VsJour  on  every  Day  in  the  year,   from 
William  the  Conqueror  to  the  Battle   of 
Inkermann.    By  Major  Johns,  R.M.,  and 
Lieut.  P.  H.  Nicolas,  R.M.   Indexes.     34 
Portraits  after  Holbein,  Reynolds,  &c.   6s, 

NIC9LINFS  History  of  the  Jesnita : 
their  Origin,  Progress,  Doctrines,  and  De- 
signs.   8  Portraits. 

PETRARCH'S    Sonnets,    Triumphs, 

and  other  Poems,  in  English  Verse.  With 
Life  by  Thomas  Campbell.  Portrait  and 
X5  Sted  Engravings. 

PICKERING'S  History  of  the  Races 

of  Man,  and  their  Geographical  Distribu- 
tion ;  with  An  Analytical  Synopsis  of 
THE  Natural  History  op  Man.  By  Dr. 
Hall.  Map  of  the  World  and  12  coloured 
Plates. 

PICTORIAL     HANDBOOK     OF 

Modem  (geography  on  a  Popular  Plan. 
Compiled  from  the  best  Authorities,  English 
and  Foreign,  by  H.  G.  Bohn.  150  Wood- 
cuts and  51  coloured  Maps. 

Without  the  Maps,  3*.  6</. 

POPE'S    Poetical    Works,    including 
Translations.     Edit.,  with  Notes,  by  R. 

Carruthers.    2  vols. 

Homer's    Iliad,   with   Introduction 

and  Notes  by  Rev.  J.  S.  Watson,  M.A. 
With  Flaxman's  Designs. 

Homer's  Odyssey,  with  the  Battle 

OF  Frogs  and  Mice,  Hymns,  &c.,  by 
other  translators  including  Chapman.  In- 
troduction and  Notes  by  J[.  S.  Watson, 
M.A.    With  Flaxman's  Designs. 

— —  Life,  including  many  of  his  Letters. 
By  R.  Carruthers.  Numerous  Illustrations. 

POTTERY  AND  PORCELAIN,  and 

other  objects  of  Vertu.  Comprising  an 
Illustrated  Catalogue  of  the  Bemal  Col- 
lection, with  the  prices  and  names  of  the 
Possessors.  Also  an  Introductory  Lecture 
on  Pottery  and  Porcelain,  and  an  Engraved 
List  of  all  Marks  and  Monograms.  By 
H.  G.  Bohn.    Numerous  Woodcuts. 

— •  With  coloured  Illustrations,  lof.  td, 

PROUT'S  (Father)  Rellqnes.  Edited 
by  Rev.  F.  Mahony.  Copyright  edition. 
with  ^  the  Author's  last  corrections  ana 
additions.  21  Etchings  by  D.  Maclise, 
R.Ai    Nearly  600  pages. 

RECREATIONS  IN  SHOOTING.  With 
some  Account  of  the  Game  found  in  the 
British  Isles,  and  Directions  for  the  Manage- 
ment of  Dog  and  Gun.  By  '  Craven.'  62 
Woodcuts  and  9  Steel  Engravings  after 
A.  Cooper,  R.Ai 


14 


BOHirS  LIBRARIES, 


RENNIE.  Insect 
vised  by  Rev.  J. 
Woodcuts. 


Architecture.    Re- 
G.  Wood,  M.A.    i86 


ROBINSON  CRUSOE.  With  Memoir  of 
Defoe,  xs  Steel  Engravings  and  74  Wood- 
cnts  after  Stothard  and  Harvey. 

•—  Without  the  Engravings,  ^.  6</. 

ROME  IN  THE  NINETEENTH  GEN- 

tury.  An  Account  in  18x7  of  the  Ruins  :;f 
the  Ancient  City,  and  Monuments  of  Modem 
Times.  By  C.  A.  Eaton.  34  Steel  En- 
gravings.   2  vols. 

SHARPE  (S.)   The  History  of  Effypt, 

from  the  Earliest  Times  till  the  Conquest 
by  the  Arabs,  A.D.  640.  a  Maps  and  up- 
wards of  400  Woodcuts.    2  vols. 

SOUTHET'S  Life  of  Nelson.  With 
Additional  Notes,  Facsimiles  of  Nelson's 
Writins,  Portraits,  Plans,  and  50  Engrav- 
ings, after  Birket  Foster,  &c. 

STARUNQ'S  (Miss)  Noble  Deeds  of 

Women ;  or,  Examples  of  Female  Courage, 
Fortitude,  and  Virtue.  With  14  Steel  Pot- 
traits. 

STUART  and  REVETT'S  Antiquities 

of  Athens,  and  other  Monuments  of  Greece ; 
with  Glossary  of  Terms  used  in  Grecian 
Architecture.  71  Steel  Plates  and  numerous 
Woodcuts. 

SWEET'S  British  Warblers.  ^.^Set 

Bechstein. 


TALES    OF    THE    OENH ;  or,   the 

Delightful  Lessons  of  Horam,  the  Son  of 
Asmar.  Trans,  by  Sir  C.  Morrell.  Numer- 
ous Woodcuts. 


TASSO'S    Jemsalem   Delivered.    In 

English  Spenserian  Verse,  with  Life,  by 
J.  H.  Wifien.  With  8  Engravings  and  24 
Woodcuts. 


WALKER'S  Manly  Exerefses;  con- 
taining Skating,  Riding,  Driving,  Hunting, 
Shootmg,  Sailmg,  Rowmg,  Swimming,  &Ct 
44  Engravings  and  numerous  Woodcuts. 

WALTON'S  Complete  Antjrler.  or  tte 

Contemplative  Man's  Recreatioa,  by  Iiaak 
Walton  and  Charles  Cotton.  With  Me- 
moirs and  Notes  by  £.  Jesse.  Also  an 
Account  of  Fishing  Stations,  Tadde,  &c, 
by  H.  G.  Bohn.  Portrait  and  003  Wood- 
cuts, and  26  Engravings  on  Steel. 

—  Livesof  Donne,  Wottouj  Hooker, 

&c.,  with  Notes.  A  New  Edition,  re- 
vised by  A.  H.  Bullen,  with  a  Memoir 
of  Izaak  Walton  by  William  Dowling.  6 
Portraits,  6  Autograph    Sis^natures,   &c. 


WELLINGTON,  Lifts  of.  From 
Materials  of  MazwelL  18  Steel 
gravings. 

— —  VictoHes  of.— vS'rr  MeunveU, 


the 
En- 


WESTROPP  (H.  M.)  A  Handbook  of 

Archaeology)  Egyptian,  Greek,  Etruscan, 
Roman.  By  H.  M.  Westropp.  Numerous 
Illustrations. 

WHITE'S  Natural  History^  of  Sel- 
borne,  with  Observations  on  various  Parts 
of  Nature,  and  the  Naturalists'  Calendar. 
Sir  W.  Jardine.  Edit.,  with  Notes  and 
Memoir,  by  E.  Jesse.  40  Portraits  and 
coloured  Plates. 


CLASSICAL   LIBRARY. 

Translations  from  the  Greek  and  Latin. 
103  Vols,  at  5 J.  each,  excepting  those  marked  otherwise,     {25/.  4J.  6d.  per  set.) 
TATIUS.  —  See      Greek 


ACHILLES 

Romances. 

JESCHTLUS,    The    Dramas    of.     In 

English  Verse  by  Anna  Swanwick.     4th 
edition. 

The  Tragedies  of.    In  Prose,  with 

Notes  and  Introduction,  by  T.  A.  Buckley, 
B.A.    Portrait.    31.  fid. 

AMMIANUS  BlARCELLINnS.  His- 
tory of  Rome  during  the  Reigns  of  Con- 
stantius,  Julian,  J ovianus,Valentinian,  and 
Valens,  by  C.  D.  Yonge,  B.A.  Double 
volume,    ^s.  6d, 


ANTONINUS     (M.    AnreUns),    The 

Thoughts  of.  Translated,  with  Notes. 
Biographical  Sketch,  and  Essay  on  the 
Philosophy,  by  George  Long,  M.A. 
3*.  6d,  Fine  Paper  edition  on  hand-made 
paper.    6s. 

APOLLONIUS  RHODIUS.    <  The  Ar- 

gonautica.'  Translated  by  £.  P.  Coleridge. 

APULEIUS,  The  Works  of.  Com- 
prising the  Golden  Ass,  God  of  Socrates, 
Floricut,  and  Discourse  of  Magic,  &c. 
Frontispiece. 


CLASSICAL  LIBRARY. 


ABISTOPHANES'  ComedleB.    Trans., 

vith  Notes  and  Extracts  from  Frere's  and 
other  Metrical  Versions,  by  W,  J.  Hickie. 
Portrait.    2  vols. 

ARISTOTLE'S  Nicomaohean  EthloB. 

Trans.,  with  Notes,  Analytical  Introduce 
tion,  and  Questions  for  Students,  by  Ven. 
Archdn.  Browne. 

■ — ^  Politics  and  Economics.  Trans., 
with  Notes,  Analyses,  and  Index,  by  E. 
Walford,  M.A.,  and  an  Essay  and  Life  by 
Dr.  Gillies. 

—  Metaphysics.  Trans.,  Mrith  Notes, 
Analysis,  and  Examination  Questions,  by 
Rev.  John  H.  M'Mahon,  M.A. 

—  History  of  Animals.  In  Ten  Books. 

Trans.,  with  Notes  and  Index,  by  R. 
Cresswell,  M.A. 

—  Organon ;  or,  Logical  Treatises,  and 

the  Introduction  of  Porphjrry.  With  Notes, 
Analysis,  and  Introduction,  by  Rev.  O. 
F.  Owen,  M.A.    2  vols.    3*.  td.  each. 

—  Rhetoric  and  Poetics.  Trans.,  with 
Hobbes'  Analysis.  Exam.  Questions,  and 
Notes,  by  T.  Buclcley,  B.A.    Portrait. 

4LTHENJEnS.     The  Deipnosophists. 

Trans,  by  C.  D.  Yonge,  B.A.  With  an 
Appendix  of  Poetical  Fragments.    3  vols. 

A-TLAS  of  Classical  Geography.    22 

large  Coloured  Maps.  With  a  complete 
Index.     Imp.  8vo.    7;.  6d, 

BION.— 6"^^  Theocritus. 

CiESAR.     Commentaries    on    the 

Gallic  and  Civil  Wars,  with  the  Supple- 
mentary Books  attributed  to  Hirtius,  in- 
cluding the  complete  Alexandrian,  African, 
and  Spanish  Wars.    Portrait. 

CATULLUS,  Tibnllus,  and  the  Vi^ 

of  Venus.  Trans,  with  Notes  and  Bio- 
graphical Introduction.^  To  which  are 
added.  Metrical  Versions  by  Lamb, 
Grainger,  and  others.    Frontispiece- 

CICERO'S  Orations.  Trans,  by  C.  D. 
Yonge,  B.A.    4  vols. 

On  Oratory  and  Orators.   With 

Letters  to  Quintus  and  Brutus.  Trans., 
with  Notes,  by  Rev.  J.  S.  Watson,  M.A. 

On  the  Nature  of  the  Gods«  Divi- 
nation, Fate,  Laws,  a  Republic,  Consul- 
ship.   Trans,  by  C.  D.  Yonge,  BJ\.. 

— —  Academics,  De  Finibus,  and  Tuscn- 
lan  Questions.  By  C.  D.  Yonge,  B.A. 
With  Sketch  of  the  Greek  Philosophers 
mentioned  by  Cicero. 


CICERO'S  'WoTliU.'^oHtinued. 

Offices :    or,    Moral    Duties. 

Major,  an  Essay  on  Old  A^e ;  Laelius, 
Essay  on    Friendship ;    Scipio's   Drea: 
Paradoxes;  Letter  to  Quintus  on  M.aiacis- 
trates.    Trans.,  with  Notes,  by  C.  R.  £</•* 
monds.    Portrait.    V'  <^* 

DEMOSTHENES'   Orations.     Trans., 

with  Notes,  Arguments,  a  Chronological 
Abstract,  and  Appendices,  by  C.  Raaa 
Kennedy.    5  vols.    (One,  3^.  6d  ;  four,  5*.) 

DICTIONARY  of  LATIN  and  GREEK 

Quotations ;  including  Proverbs,  MaxiniSi 
Mottoes,  Law  Terms  and  Phrases.  With 
the  Quantities  marked,  and  English  Trauos- 
lations.  With  Index  Verborum  (622  pages). 

—  Index  Verborum  to  the  above,  with  the 
Quantities  and  Accents  marked  (56  pages), 
limp  cloth,     ts. 

DIOGENES  LAERTIUS.    Lives  and 

Opinions  of  the  Ancient  Philosophers. 
Trans.,  with  Notes,  by  C.  D.  Yonge,  B.A. 

EFICTETUS.     The    Disconrses    o& 

With  the  Encheiridion  and  Fragments. 
With  Notes,  Life,  and  View  of  his  Phila- 
sophy,  by  George  Long,  M.A. 

EURIPIDES.  Trans,  by  T.  A.  Buckley, 
B.A.    Portrait.    2  vols. 

GREEK  ANTHOLOGY.  In  English 
Prose  by  G.  Burges,  M.A.  With  Metrical 
Versions  by  Bland,  Merivale,  and  others. 

GREEK  ROMANCES  of  HeliodomSi 

Longus,  and  Achilles  Tatius;  viz..  The 
Adventures  of  Theagenes  and  Chariclea; 
Amours  of  Daphnis  and  Chloe ;  and  Loves 
of  Clitopho  and  Leucippe.  Trans.,  with 
Notes,  by  Rev.  R.  Smith,  M.A. 

HELIODORnS.-.V^f  Greek  Rojnatices. 

HERODOTUS.  Literally  trans,  by  Rev. 
Henry  Cary,  M.A.    Portrait. 

HESIOD,    CALLIMACHUS,    and 

Theognis.  In  Prose,  with  Notes  and 
Biographical  Notices  by  Rev.  J.  Banks, 
M.A.  Together  with  the  Metrical  Ver- 
sions of  Hesiod,  by  Elton ;  Callimachus, 
by  Tytler ;  and  Theognis,  by  Frere. 

HOMER'S  mad.  In  English  Prose,  with 
Notes  by  T.  A.  Buckley,  B.A.    Portrait. 

—  Odyssey*  Hymns,  Epigrams,  and 
Battle  of  the  Frogs  and  Mice.  In  English 
Prose,  with  Notes  and  Memoir  by  T.  A. 
Buckley,  B.A. 

HORACE.  In  Prose  by  Smart,  with  Notes 
selected  by  T.  A.  Buckley,  B.A.  Por- 
trait.   3J.  6d. 

JULIAN  THE  EMPEROR.  Containing 
Gregory  Mazianzeo's  Two  Invectives  and 
Libaniis'  Monody,  with  Julian's  Theosophi- 
cal  Works.   By  tne  Rev.  C.  W.  King,  M.A« 


i6 


BONN'S  LIBRARIES. 


JUSTIN,  CORNELIUS  NEPOS,  and 

Eutropius.  Trans.,  with  Notes,  by  Rev. 
J.  S.  Watson,  M.A. 

JUVENAL;     PERSIUS,     SULFICIA, 

and  Lucilius.  In  Prose,  with  Notes, 
Chronological  Tables^  Argfuments,  by  L. 
Evans,  M.A.  To  which  is  added  the  Me- 
trical Version  of  Juvenal  and  Persius  by 
Gifford.    Frontispiece. 

LIVY.  The  History  of  Rome.  Trans. 
byDr.Spillan  and  others.  4V»ls.  Portrait. 

LONGUS.  Daphnis  and  Chloe. — See  Greek 
Romances, 

LUCAl^S  Pharsalla.  In  Prose,  with 
Notes  by  H.T.Riley. 

LUCIAN'S  Dialogues  of  the  Gtoda, 

of  the  Sea  Gods,  and  of  the  Dead.  Trans, 
by  Howard  Williams,  M.A. 

LUCRETIUS.  In  Prose,  with  Notes  and 
Biographical  Introduction  by  Rev.  J.  S. 
Watson,  M.A.  To  which  is  added  the 
Metrical  Version  by  J.  M.  Good. 

MARTIAL'S  EpigraxuSt  complete.  In 
Prose,  with  Verse  Translations  selected 
from  English  Poets,  and  other  sources. 
Dble.  vol.  (670  pages).    7;.  6^. 

MOSCHUS.— ^f<;  Theocritus. 

OVID'S  Works,  complete.  In  Prose, 
with  Notes  and  Introduction.    3  vols. 

PAUSANIAS'  Description  of  Greece. 

Trans.,  with  Notes  and  Index,  by  Rev. 
A.  R.  Shilleto,  M.A.,  sometime  Scholar  of 
Trinity  College,  Cambridge.    2  vols. 

FHALARIS.    Bentley's  Dissertations 

upon  the  Epistles  of  _  Phalaris,  Themisto- 
cles,  Socrates,  Euripides,  and  the  Fables 
of  ^sop.  With  Introduction  and  Notes 
by  Prof.  W.  Wagner,  Ph.D. 

PINDAR.  In  Prose,  with  Introduction 
and  Notes  by  Dawson  W.  Turner.  To- 
gether with  the  Metrical  Version  by  Abra- 
ham Moore.    Portrait. 

PLATO'S  Works.  Trans,  by  Rev.  H. 
Cary,  H.  Davis,  and  G.  Burges.    6  Vols. 

— —  Dialog^ues.  A  Summary  and  Analysis 
of.  With  Analytical  Index  to  the  Greek 
text  of  modern  editions  and  to  the  above 
translations,  by  A.  Day,  LL.D. 

PLAUTUS'S  Comedies.  In  Prose,  with 
Notes  by  H.  T.  Riley,  6.A.    2  vols. 

FLINT'S  Natural  History.  Trans., 
with  Notes,  by  J.  Bostock,  M.D.,  F.R.S., 
and  H.  T.  Riley,  B.A.    6  vols. 

PLINY.     The  Letters  of  Pliny  the 

Younger.  Melmoth's  Translation,  revised, 
with  Notes  and  short  Life,  by  Rev.  F.  C. 
T.  Bosanquetj  M.A. 


PLUTARCH'S    Morals.      Theosophical 
Essays.    Trans,  by  Rev.  C.  W.  King,  M.A. 


—  Ethical  Essays. 
A.  R.  Shilleto,  M.A. 

—  Lives.    Seepage  7. 


Trans,    by  Rev. 


FROPERTIUS,  The  Eleg^ies  of.  With 
Notes,  translated  by  Rev.  P.  J.  ^  F. 
Gantillon,  M.A.,  with  metrical  versions 
of   Select   Elegies   by  Nott  and  Elton. 

QUINTTLIAN'S  Institutes  of  Oratory, 
Trans.,  by  Rev.  J.  S.  Watson,  M.A. 
a  vols. 

SALLUST,  FLORUS,  and  VELLEIUS 

Paterculus.  Trans.,  with  Notes  and  Bio- 
graphical Notices,  by  J.  S.  Watson,  M.A. 

SENECA  DE  BENEFICHS.  Trans, 
lated  by  Aubrey  Stewart,  M.A.     3^.  6d. 

SENECA'S  Minor  Essays.  Translated 
by  A.  Stewart,  M.A. 

SOPHOCLES.    The  Tragedies  of.    In 

Prose,  with  Notes,  Arguments,  and  Intro 
duction.    Portrait. 

STRABO'S  Geography.  Trans.,  with 
Notes,  by  W.  Falconer,  M.A.,  and  H.  C. 
Hamilton.  Copious  Index,  giving  Ancient 
and  Modem  Names.    3  vols. 

SUETONIUS'  Lives  of  the   Twelve 

Caesars  and  Lives  of  the  Grammarians. 
The  Translation  of  Thomson,  revised,  with 
Notes,  by  T.  Forester. 

TACITUS.     The  Works  of.     Trans., 

with  Notes.    2  vols. 

TERENCE  and  PHJEDRUS.  In  Eng- 
lish Prose,  with  Notes  and  Arguments,  by 
H.  T.  Riley,  B.A.  To  which  is  added 
Smart's  Metrical  Version  of  Phaedrus. 
With  Frontispiece. 

THEOCRITUS,     BION,    MOSCHUS 

and  Tyrtaeus.  In  Prose,  with  Notes  ana 
Arguments,  by  Rev.  J.  Banks,  M.A.  To 
which  are  appended  the  Metrical  Ver- 
sions of  Chapman.   Portrait  of  Theocritus. 

THUCTDIDES.    The  Peloponnesian 

War.  Trans.,  with  Notes,  by  Rev.  H. 
Dale.    Portrait.    2  vols.    3;.  6d.  each. 

TYRTJEUS.— ^«  Theocritus* 

VIRGIL.    The  Works  of.     In  Pr(»e, 

with  Notes  by  Davidson.  Revised,  with 
additional  Notes  and  Bionaphical  Notice, 
by  T.  A.  Buckley,  B.A.    Portrait.     3*.  ^ 

XENOPHON'S  Works.  Trans.,  with 
Notes,  by  J.  S.  Watson,  M.A.,  and  Rev. 
H.  Dale.    Portrait.    In  3  vols. 


COLLEGIATE  SERIES  AND  SCIENTIFIC  LIBRARY, 


COLLEGIATE     SERIES. 

lo  Vols,  at  5j.  each,    (2/,  lOJ.  per  set.) 


DANTE.  The  Inferno.  Prose  Trans., 
with  the  Text  of  the  Original  on  the  same 
page,  and  Explanatory  Notes,  by  John 
A.  Carlyle,  M.D.    Portrait. 

The  Pnr  gatorio.   Prose  Trans. ,  with 

the  Original  on  the  same  page,  and  Ex- 
planatory Notes,  by  W.  S.  Dugdale. 

DOBREE'S  Adversaria.  (Notes  on  the 
Greek  and  Latin  Classics.)  Edited  by  the 
late  Prof.  Wagner.    2  vols. 

DONALDSON  (Dr.)    The  Theatre  of 

the  Greeks.  With  Supplementary  Treatise 
on  the  Language,  Metres,  and  Prosody  of 
the  Greek  Dramatists.  Numerous  Illus- 
trations and  3  Plans.  By  J.  W.  Donald- 
son, D.D. 

GOETHE'S  Faust.  PartL  German  Text, 
with  Hay  ward's  Prose  Translation  and 
Notes.  Revised,  with  Introduction  and 
Bibliography,  by  Dr.  C.  A.  Buchheim. 

[/« t/u:  Press, 

KEIGHTLEY'S  (Thomas)  Mythology 

of  Ancient  Greece  and  Italy.  Revised  by 
Dr.  Leonhard  Schmitz.    xa  Plates. 


HERODOTUS,   Notes  on.     Origia.eU 

and  Selected  from  the  best  Commentators. 
By  D.  W.  Turner,  M.A.    Coloured  Map. 

Analysis  and  Summary  of,  with 

a  Synchronistical  Table  of  Events— Tables 
of  Weights,  Measures,  Money^  and  Dis- 
tances—  an  Outline  of  the  History  and 
Geography — ^and  the  Dates  completed  from 
Gaisford,  Baehr,  &c.    By  J.  T.  Wheeler. 

NEW  TESTAMENT  (The)  In  Greek. 

Griesbach's  Text,  with  the  Readings  of 
Mill  and  Scholz,  and  ParalleF  References. 
Also  a  Critical  Introduction  and  Chrono- 
logical Tables.  Two  Fac-similes  of  Greek 
Manuscripts.    650  pages.    3s.  6d. 

— —  or  bound  up  with  a  Greek  and  English 
Lexicon  to  the  New  Testament  (250  pages 
additional,  making  in  all  goo^.    5^. 

The  Lexicon  separately,  2; . 

THUCTDIDES.     An    Analysis   and 

Summary  of.  With  Chronological  Table 
of  Events,  &c.,  by  J.  T.  Wheeler. 


SCIENTIFIC   LIBRARY. 

50  Fols.  at  5j.  each^  excepting  thost  marked  otherwise,     (13/.  6j.  od,  per  set,) 


AGASSIZ   and   GOX7IJ).    Outline  of 

Comparative  Physiology.  Enlarged  by 
Dr.  Wright.  With  Index  and  30c  Illus- 
trative Woodcuts. 

BOLLET'S    Manual    of  Technical 

Analysis;  a  Guide  for  the  Testing  and 
Valuation  of  the  various  Natural  and 
Artificial  Substances  employed  in  the  Arts 
and  Domestic  Economy,  founded  on  the 
work  of  Dr.  BoUey.  Edit,  by  Dr.  Paul. 
100  Woodcuts. 

BRIDGEWATER  TREATISES. 

Bell  (Sir  Charles)  on  the  Hand ; 

its^  Mechanism  and  Vital  Endowments,  as 
evincing  Design.  Preceded  by  an  Account 
of  the  Author  s  Discoveries  in  the  Nervous 
System  by  A.  Shaw.   Numerous  Woodcuts. 

Eirhy  on  the  History,  Hahits, 

and  Instincts  of  Animals.  With  Notes  by 
T.  Rymer  Jones.    100  Woodcuts,    a  vols. 

Buckland's  Geology  and  Miner> 

alogy.  With  Additions  by  Prof.  Owen, 
Frof.  Phillips,  and  R.  Brown.  Memoir  of 
Buckland.  Portrait.  2  vols.  155.  Vol.  1. 
Text.  Vol.  II.  90  large  plates  with  letter- 
press. 


BRIDGEWATER    TREATISES. 

Cofttinued, 

——  Chalmers  on  the  Adaptation  of 

External  Nature  to  the  Moral  and  Intel- 
lectual Constitution  of  Man.  With  Memoir 
by  Rev.  Dr.  Gumming.    Portrait. 

——  Front's  Treatise  on  Chemistry, 

Meteorology,  and  the  Function  of  Diges- 
tion, with  reference  to  Natural  Theology 
Edit,  by  Dr.  J.  W.  Griffith.    2  Maps. 

Roget's  Animal  and  Vegetable 

Physiology.    463  Woodcuts.    2  vols,    ts 
each. 

—  Kidd  on  the  Adaptation  of  Ex- 
ternal Nature  to  the  Physical  Condition  of 
Man.    35.  6d, 

CARPENTER'S  (Dr.  VT,  B.)  Zoology. 

A  Systematic  View  of  the  Structure,  Ha- 
bits, Instincts,  and  Uses  of  the  principal 
Families  of  the  Animal  Kingdom,  and  of 
the  chief  Forms  of  Fossil  Remains.  Re- 
vised by  W.  S.  Dallas,  F.L.S.  Numerous 
Woodcuts.    2  vols.    6s.  each. 

— ~  Mechanical  Philo8ophy|  Astro- 

nomy,  and  Horology.  A  Popular  Expo- 
sition.   z8x  Woodcuts. 


i8 


BOHN'S  LIBRARIES. 


CARPENTER'S  YTorlLB.—CcmtiHM^d. 

Vegetable  Physiology  and  Sys- 
tematic Botany.  A  complete  Introduction 
to  the  Knowledge  of  Plants.  Revised  by 
E.  Lanlc ester,  M.D.,  &c.  Numerous 
Woodcuts.    6s. 

— — -  Animal  Physiology.  Revised  Edi- 
tion.   300  Woodcuts.    6s. 

CHEVREUL  on  Colour.  Containing 
the  Principles  of  Harmony  and  Contrast 
of  Colours,  and  their  Application  to  the 
Arts ;  including  Painting,  Decoration, 
Tapestries,  Carpets,  Mosaics,  Glazing, 
Staining,  Calico  Printing,  Letterpress 
Printing,  Map  Colouring,  Dress,  Land- 
scape and  Flower  Gardening,  &c.  Trans. 
fey  C.  Martel.    Several  Plates. 

— — •  With  an  additional  series  of  16  Plates 
in  Colours,  7;.  6d. 

ENNEMOSER'S    History  of  Maglo. 

Trans,  by  W.  Howitt.  With  an  Appendix 
of  the  most  remarkable  and  best  authenti- 
cated Stories  of  Apparitions,  Dreams, 
Second  Sight,  Table-Tuming,  and  Spirit- 
Rapping,  &c.    2  vols. 

HIND'S  Introduction  to  Astronomy. 

With  Vocabulary  of  the  Terms  in  present 
tise.    Numerous  Woodcuts.    35.  6d. 

HOGQ'S  (Jabez)  Elements  of  Experi- 
mental and  Natural  Philosophy.  Being 
an  Easy  Introduction  to  the  Study  of 
Mechanics,  Pneumatics,  Hydrostatics, 
Hydraulics,  Acoustics,  Optics,  Caloric, 
Electricity,  Voltaism,  and  Magnetism. 
400  Woodcuts. 

HUMBOLDT'S  Cosmos;  or,  Sketch 

of  a  Physical  Description  of  the  Universe. 
Trans,  by  E.  C  Ott6,  B.  H.  Paul,  and 
W.  S.  Dallas,  F.L.S.  Portrait.  5  vols. 
3J.  6d.  each,  excepting  vol.  v.,  55. 

— -  Personal  Narrative  of  his  Travels 

in  America  during  the  years  1799-1804. 
Trans.,  with  Notes,  by  T.  Ross.    3  vols. 

—  Views  of  Nature ;  or.  Contem- 
plations of  the  Sublime  Phenomena  of 
Creation,  with  Scientific  Illustrations. 
Trans,  by  E.  C.  Ott6. 

HUNT'S  (Robert)  Poetry  of  Science ; 

or,  Studies  of  the  Physical  Phenomena  of 
Nature.  By  Robert  Hunt,  Professor  at 
the  School  of  Mines. 

JOYCE'S    Scientific    Dialogues.     A 

Familiar  Introduction  to  the  Arts  and 
Sciences.  For  Schools  and  Young  People. 
Numerous  Woodcuts. 

JOYCE'S  Introduction  to  the  Arts 

and  Sciences,  for  Schools  and  Young 
People.  Divided  into  Lessons  with  Ex< 
amination  Questions.    Woodcuts.    35.  6d. 


JUKES-BROWNE'S  Student's  Hand- 
book of  Physical  Geology.  By  A  J. 
Jukes-Browne,  of  the  Geological  Survey  of 
£ngland.  With  numerous  Diagrams  and 
Illustrations,  6s. 

— —  The  Student's  Handbook  of 
Historical  Geology.  By  A.  J.  Jukes- 
Brown,  B.A.,  F.G.S.,  of  the  Geolojrical 
Survey  of  England  and  Wales.  With 
numerous  Diagrams  and  Illustrations.    6s, 

The    BuUdlng    of   the    British 

Islands.  A  Study  in  Geographical  Evolu- 
tion. By  A  J.  Jukes-Browne,  F.G.S. 
7*.  6d. 

KNIGHT'S  (Charles)  Knowledge  Is 

Power.     A  Popular  Manual  of  Political 

Economy. 

LILLY.    Introduction  to  Astrology. 

With  a  Gramniar  of  Astrology  and  Tables 
for  calculating  Nativities,  by  Zadkiel. 


MANTELL'S   (Dr.)    Geological 

cursions  through  the  Isle  of  Wight  and 
along  the  Dorset  Coast.  Numerous  Wood- 
cuts and  Geological  Map. 

Petrifactions  and  their  Teach- 
ings. Handbook  to  the  Organic  Remains 
in  the  British  Museum.  Numerous  Wood- 
cuts.   6s. 

—  Wonders  of  Geology ;  or|  a 
Familiar  Exposition  of  Geological  Pheno- 
mena. A  coloured  Geological  Map  of 
England,  Plates,  and  200  Woodcuts,  t 
vols.  7^.  6d.  each. 

SCHOUW'S  Earth,  Plants,  and  Blaii. 

Popular  Pictures  of  Nature.  And  K»- 
bdl's  Sketches  from  the  Mineral  Kinzdom. 
Trans,  by  A.  Henfrey,  F.R.S.  CokNired 
Map  of  the  Geography  of  Plants. 

SBHTH'S  (Pye)  Geology  and  Scrip- 
ture ;  or,  the  Relation  between  the  Scriptures 
and  Geological  Science.    With  Memoir. 

STANLEY'S   Classified   SynopsU  of 

the  Principal  Painters  of  the  Dutch  and 
Flemish  Schools,  including  an  Account  of 
some  of  the  early  German  Masters.  By 
George  Stanley. 

STAUNTON'S    Chess    "Works. —  5'« 

^affe  21. 

STOCKHARDT'S     Experimental 

Chemistry.  A  Handbook  for  the  Study 
of  the  Science  by  simple  Ejqperiments. 
Edit,  by  C  W.  Heaton,  F.C.S.  Nu- 
merous  Woodcuts. 

URE'S  (Dr.  A.). Cotton  Manufacture 
of  Great    Britain,  systematically  invest!- 

gted  ;  with  an  Introductory  View  of  Us 
>mparative  State  in  Foreign  Countries 
Revised  by  P.  L.  Simmonds.  150  lUvs* 
trations.  9  vols. 
— —  Philosophy  of  Manufactursii 
or  an  Exposition  of  the  Scientific,  Mondi 
and  Commercial  Economy  of  the  Factory 
Sjrstem  of  Great  Britain.  Revised  hy 
P.  L.  Simmonds.  Numerous  Figures. 
800  pages.    7S.  6d. 


HBFBREIfCE  LIBRARY. 


ECONOMICS  AND  FINANCE. 

OILB ART'S  History,  Principles,  and  Practice  of  BanUnsr*    Revised  to  x88x     ^> 
A.  S.  Michle,  of  the  Royal  Bank  of  Scotland.    Portrait  of  Gilbart.    2  vols.     lor. 

RICARDO  on  the  Principles  of  Political  Economy  and  Taxation.    Edit«</ 

by  E.  C.  K.  Conner,  M.A.,  Lecturer,  University  College,  Liverpool.  [/«  the /^r^ss. 

SMITH  (Adam).     The  "Wealth   of  Nations.     An  Inquiry  into  the  Nature  and 
Causes  of.     Edited  by  E.  Belfort  Bax.     2  vols.     75^. 


REFERENCE   LIBRARY. 

32  Volumes  at  Various  Prices,     (8/.  i8j.  per  set,) 


BI*  AIR'S     Chronologrical     Tables. 

Comprehending  the  Chronology  and  His- 
tory of  the  World,  from  the  Earliest  Times 
to  the  Russian  Treaty  of  Peace,  April  X856. 
By  J.  W.  Rosse.    800  pages,    xof. 

Index   of  Dates.     Comprehending 

the  principal  Facts  in  the  Chronology  and 
History  of  the  World,  from  the  EarUest  to 
the  Present,  alphabetically  arranged ;  being 
a  complete  Index  to  the  foregoing.  By 
J.  W.  Kosse.    2  vols.  ss.  each. 

BOHN'S  Dictionary  of  Quotation! 

from  the  English  Poets.  4th  and  cheaper 
Edition.    6s.. 

BOND'S  Handy-book  of  Rnles  and 

Tables  for  Verifying  Dates  with  the  Chris- 
tian Era.    4th  Edition.    55. 

BUCHANAN'S  Dictionary  of  Science 

and  Technical  Terms  used  in  Philosophy, 
Literature,  Professions,  Commerce,  Arts, 
and  Trades.  By  W.  H.  Buchanan,  with 
Supplement.  Emted  by  Jas.  A  Smith.  6s. 

CHRONICLES  OF  THE  TOMBS.     A 

Select  Collection  of  Epitaphs,  with  Essay 
on  Epita|)hs  and  Observations  on  Sepul- 
chral Antiquities.  By  T.  J.  Pettigrew, 
F.R.S.,  F.S.A.    5J. 

CLARK'S  (Hash)  Introduction  to 
Heraldry.  Revised  by  J.  R.  Planch6.  s*. 
950  Illustrations. 

— ■  JVitA  tMt  lUustrations  colouredt  15*. 
COINS,  Manual  of.— ^^^  Humphreys. 

COOPER'S  Biogpraphical  Dictionary, 

Containing  concise  notice^  of  upwards  of 
15,000  eminent  persons  of  all  ages  and 
countries.     2  vols.     5*.  each. 

DATES,  Index  ot.—See  Blatf 

IHCnONART  of  Obsolete  and  Pro- 
vincial Enelish.  Containing  Words  from 
Eaglish  Writers  previous  to  the  xoth 
Century.  By  Thomas  Wright,  M.A., 
F.S.A.,  &c.    2  vols.  5x.  each. 


EPIGRAMMATISTS  (The).  A  Selec- 
tion from  the  Epigrammatic  Literature  ef 
Ancient,  Mediaeval,  and  Modem  Times. 
With  Introduction,  Notes,  Observations, 
Illustrations,  an  Aj^pendix  on  Works  con- 
necteS  with  Epigrammatic  Literature, 
by  Rev.  H.  Dodd,  M.A.    6*. 

GAMES,  Handbook  of.  Edited  by 
Henry  G.  Bohn.  Numerous  Diagrams. 
SS.     {See  also  page  21^ 

HENFRET'S  Guide  to  English 
Coins.  Revised  Edition,  by  C.  F.  Keary. 
M.A.,  F.S.A.  With  an  Historical  Intro-' 
duction.    6s. 

HUMPHREYS'    Coin    Collectors' 

Manual.  An  Historical  Account  of  the 
Progress  of  Coinage  from  the  Earliest 
Time,  by  H.  N.  Humphreys.  140  Illus- 
trations.   2  vols.  5f .  each. 

LOWNDES'  Bibliographer's  Manual 

of  English  Literature.  Containine  an  Ac- 
count of  Rare  and  Curious  Books  pub- 
lished in  or  relating  to  Great  Briuiu  and 
Ireland,  from  the  Invention  of  Printing, 
with    Biographical    Notices   and    Prices, 


by  W.  T.  Lowndes.    Parts  I.-X.  (A  to  ZU 
"  '"   '"*'     Part  XL  ^Appendix  Vol.), 


3f.  6d.  each. 

SS.      Or   the    xx    parts  in    4   vols. 

morocco,  2/.  2s.    Also  in  6  vols,  cloth,  5J. 
each. 


MEDICINE,  Handbook  of  Domestic, 

Popularly  Arranged.  By  Dr.  H.  Davies. 
700  pages.    5J. 

NOTED  NAMES  OF  FICTION. 
Dictionary  of.  Including  also  Familiar 
Pseudonyms,  Surnames  bestowed  on  Emi- 
nent Men,  &c.  By  W.A.Wheeler,  M.A.  5J. 

POLITICAL     CTCLOPiEDIA.      A 

Dictionary  of  Political,  Constitutional, 
Statistical,  and  Forensic  Knowledge ; 
forming  a  Work  of  Reference  on  subjects 
of  CivilAdministration,  Political  Economy. 
Finance,  Commerce,  Laws,  and  Social 
Relations.    4  vols.  3;.  6</.  each. 


20 


BOHN'S  LIBRARIES, 


FROVERBS,  Handbook  of.  Con- 
taining an  entire  Republication  of  Ra^'s 
Collection,  with  Additions  from  Foreign 
Languages  and  Sayings,  Sentences, 
Maxims,  and  Phrases.    55. 

—  A  Polyglot  of  Foreign.     Com- 

S rising  French,  Italian,  German,  Dutch, 
Danish,  Portuguese,  and  Danish.    With 
Efnglish  Translations.    5*. 


SYNONYMS  and   ANTONYMS;   or, 

Kindred  Words  and  their  Opposites,  Col- 
lected and  Contrasted  by  Ven-  C.  J. 
Smith,  M.A.    55. 

WRIGHT  (Th.)— ^-w  Dictionary. 


NOVELISTS'    LIBRARY. 

13  Volumes  at  jj.  6^.  each,  excepting  those  marked  otherwise,   (2/.  %s,  6d.per  set,) 


BJORNSON'S  Arne  and  the  Fisher 

Lassie.    Translated  from  the  Norse  with 
an  Introduction  by  W.  H.  Low,  M.A. 


BURNEY'S    Evelina ; 


lURNET'S  Evelina;  or,  a  Young 
Lady's  Entrance  into  the  World.  By  F. 
Burney  (Mme.  D'Arblay).  With  Intro- 
duction and  Notes  by  A.  R.  Ellis,  Author 
of  *  Sylvcstra,'  &c. 

—    Cecilia.      With    Introduction    and 
Notes  by  A.  R.  Ellis,    a  vols. 

D£    STAEL.      Corinne  or   Italy. 

By  Madame    de    Stael.      Translated    by 
Emily  Baldwin  and  Paulina  Driver. 


EBERS'  Egyptian  Princess. 

by  Emma  Buchheim. 


Trans. 


FIELDING'S  Joseph  Andrews  and 

his  Friend  Mr.  Abraham  Adams.  With 
Roscoe's  Biography.  Cruikshank^s  Illus- 
tratioHS. 

— —  Amelia.  Roscoe's  Edition,  revised. 
CruiksAank's  Illustratifffu.    $s, 

History  of  Tom  Jones,  a  Found- 
ling. Roscoe's  Edition.  Crutkshank*s 
Illustrations.    2  vols. 

GROSSFS  Marco  ViscontL  Trans, 
by  A.  F.  D. 

MANZONI.     The  Betrothed: 

a    Translation   of    'I    Promessi 
Numerous  Woodcuts.    1  vol.    5*. 

STOWE  (Mrs.  H.  B.)    Uncle  Tom's 

Cabin ;  or.  Life  among  the  Lowly. 
page  Illustrations. 


being 
Sposi. 


8  full- 


ARTISTS'   LIBRARY. 

9  Volumes  at  Various  Prices,    (2/.  8j.  6d,  per  set.) 


BELL  (Sir  Charles).  The  Anatomy 
and  Philosophy  of  Expression,  as  Con- 
nected with  the  Fine  Arts,  ss.  Illustrated. 

DEMMIN.     History  of  Arms  and 

Armour  from  the  Earliest  Period.  By 
Auguste  Demmin.  Trans,  by  C.  C. 
Black,  M.A.,  Assistant  Keeper,  S.  K. 
Museum,    xgoo  Illustrations.    7;.  6d. 

FAIRHOLT'S  Costume  in  England. 

Third  Edition.    Enlarged  and  Revised  by 
the  Hon.  H.  A.  Dilfon,  F.S.A.     With 
more  than  700  Engravings.     3  vols.  5*. 
each. 
Vol.  I.  History.    Vol.  II.  Glossary. 

FLAXMANi   Lectures  on  Sculpture. 

With  Three  Addresses  to  the  R.A.  by  Sir 
R.  Westmacott,  R.A.,  and  Memoir  of 
Flaxman.    Portrait  and  5.^  Plates.    6s. 


HEATON'S    Concise   History   of 

Painting:.  New  Edition,  revised  by 
W,  Cosmo  Monkhouse.     $s. 

LECTURES    ON    PAINUNG   by  the 

R<yysd  Academicians,  Barry,  Opie,  Faseli. 
With  Introductory  Essay  and  Notes  by 
R.  Womum.    Portrait  of  Fuseli.    5*. 

LEONARDO  DA  VXNCFS   Treatise 

on  Paintine.  Trans,  by  J.  F.  Rigaud,  R.  A. 
With  a  Life  and  an  Account  ofhis  Works 
by  J.  W.  Brown.  Numerous  Plates.  5s. 

PLANCHE'S    History   of  British 

Costume,  from  the  Earliest  Time  to  the 
roth  Century.  By  J.  R.  Planchd.j.  400 
Illustrations,    ss. 


21 


LIBRARY    OF    SPORTS    AND    GAMES 

lo  Volumes  at  3-f.  6d.  and  ^s.  each.     (2I.  65.  od.  per  set.) 


BOHN'S    Handbooks    of    Athletic 

Sports.    With  numerous  Illustrations.    In 
7  vols.    3^.  (id.  each. 

Vol.  I.— Cricket,  by  Hon.  and  Rev.  E. 
L>'ttelton ;  Lawn  Tennis,  by  H.  W.  W. 
Wilberforce  ;  Tennis,  Rackets,  and  Fives, 
by  Julian  Marshall,  Major  Spens,  and  J.  A. 
Tail ;  Golf,  by  W.  T.  Linskill ;  Hockey, 
by  F.  S.  Cresweil. 

Vol.  II.— Rowing  and  Sculling,  by  W. 
B.  Woodgate  ;  Sailing,  by  E.  F.  Knight ; 
Swimming,  by  M.  and  J.  R.  Cobbett. 

Vol.  III.— Boxing,  by  R.  G.  Allanson- 
Winn  ;  Single  Stick  and  Sword  Exercise, 
by  R.  G.  Allanson-Winn  and  C.  Phillipps- 
Wolley :  Wrestling,  by  Walter  Armstrong ; 
Fencing,  hy  H.  A.  Colmore  Dunn. 

Vol.  IV. — Skating,  by  Douglas  Adams ; 
Rugby  Football,  by  Harry  Vassall  ;  Asso> 
elation  Football,  by  C.  W.  Alcock. 

\_In  ike  press. 

Vol.  V.  —  Cycling  and  Athletics,  by 
H.  H.  Griffin ;  Rounders,  Field  Ball,  Base- 
ball, Bowls,  Quoits,  Skittles,  &c.,  by  J.  M. 
Walker,  M.A.,  Assistant  Master  Bedford 
Grammar  School.  [/«  tJie  press » 

Vol.  VI. — G3nnnastics,  by  A.  F.  Jenkin ; 
Clubs  and  Dumb-bells,  by  G.  T.  B.  Coljbett 
and  A.  F.  Jenkin.  [/«  ike  press. 

Vol.  VII. — Riding,  Driving,  and  Stable 
Management.  V>y  W.  A.  Kerr,  V.C.,  and 
other  writers.  \Preparing. 

BOHN'S  Handbooks  of  Games.    New 

Edition,  entirely  rewritten.     2  volumes. 
3^.  td.  each.* 

Vol.  I.  Table  Games. 
Contents  :— Billiards,  with  Pool,  Pyra- 
m  ds,  and  Snooker,  by  Major-Gen.  A.  W. 
Drayson,  F.R.A.S.,  with  a  preface  by 
W.  J.  Peall— Bagatelle,  by  'Berkeley'— 
Chess,  by  R.  F.  Green — Draughts,  Back- 
gammon,   Dominoes,    Solitaire,    Reversi, 


Go  Bang,  Rouge  et  noir,  Roulette,  E.O., 
Hazard,  Fare,  by  '  Berkeley.' 

Vol.  II.  Card  Games. 

Contents :— Whist,  by  Dr.  William  Pole, 
F.R.S.,  Author  of  'The  Philosophy  of 
Whist,  &c.'— Solo  Whist,  by  R.  F.  Green  ; 
Piquet,  Ecarte,  Euchre,  Fezique,  and 
Cribbage,  bj'  *  Berkeley ; '  Pqker,  Loo, 
Vingt-et-un,  Napoleon,  Newmarket,  Rouge 
et  Noir,  Pope  Joan,  Speculation,  &c.  &c., 
by  Baxter- Wray. 

CHESS  CONGRESS  of  1862.  A  col- 
lection of  the  games  played.  Edited  by 
J.  Ldwenthal.    New  edition,  55. 

MORPHY'S  Games  of  Chess,  being 

the  Matches  and  best  Games  played  by  the 
American  Champion,  with  explanatory  and 
analytical  Notes  by  J.  Ldwenthal.  With 
short  Memoir  and  Portrait  of  Morphy.    5^. 

STAUNTON'S  Chess-Player's  Hand- 
book. 'A  Popular  and  Scientific  Intro- 
duction to  the  Game,  with  numerous  Dia- 
grams.   5^. 

— >  Chess  Praxis.  A  Supplement  to  the 
Chess-player's  Handbook.  Containing  the 
most  important  modem  Improvements  in 
the  Openings ;  Code  of  Chess  Laws  ;  and 
a  Selection  of  Morphy's  Games.  Annotated. 
636  pages.    Diagrams.    5^ . 

Chess-Flayer's    Companion. 

Comprising  a  Treatise  on  Odds,  Collection 
of  Match  Games,  indnding  the  French 
Match  with  M.  St.  Amant,  and  a  Selection 
of  Original  Problems.  Diagrams  and  Co- 
loured Frontispiece.    5;. 

— •  Chess    Tonmament    of    1851. 

A  Collection  of  Games  played  at  this  cde- 
brated  assemblage.  With  Introdnctioa 
and  Notes.    Nnmeroos  Diagrams.    5s. 


22 


BOHN'S  CHEAP  SERIES. 

Frice  is,  each, 

A  Series  of  Complete  Siorics  or  Essays,  mostly  reprinted  from   Vols,  in 

Bohn^s  LibraHes,  and  neatly  bound  in  stiff  paper  cover,  with 

cut  edges,  suitable  for  Railway  Reading. 


ASCHAM  (Roger). 
By  Professor  Mayor. 


Scholexnaster. 


CARPENTER  (Dr.  YT,  B.).  Physi- 
ology of  Temperance  and  Total  Abstinence. 

EMERSON.    England  and  EngllBh 

Characteristics.  Lectures  on  the  Race, 
Ability,  Afanners,  Truth,  Character, 
Wealth,  Religion.  &c.  &c. 

—  Nature :  An  Essay.  To  which  are 
added  Orations,  Lectures,  and  Addresses. 

—  Representative  Men :  Seven  Lec- 
tures on  Plato,  Swedenborg,  Mon- 
taigne, Shakespeare,  Napoleon,  and 
Goethe. 

— ^  Twenty  Essays  on  Various  Sub- 
jects. 

The  Conduct  of  Life. 

FRANKLIN  (Benjamin).  Autobio- 
graphy.   Edited  by  J.  Sparks. 

HA^iVTHORNE  (Nathaniel).  Twice- 
told  Tales.    Two  Vols,  in  One. 

— -  Snow  Image,  and  Other  Tales. 

— —  Scarlet  Letter. 

— —  House  with  the  Seven  Gables. 

Transformation  ;   or  the   Marble 

Fawn.    Two  Parts. 

HAZLITT  (W.).  Table-talk:  Essays 
on  Men  and  Manners.    ITiree  Parts. 

—  Plain  Speaker :  Opinions  on  Books, 
Men,  and  Things.    Three  Parts. 

— —  Lectures  on  the  English  Comic 

Writers. 

—  Lectures  on  the  English  Poets. 

'— -  Lectures  on  the  Characters  of 

Shakespeare's  Plays. 

Lectures  on  the  Literature  of 

the  Age  of  Elizabeth,  chiefly  Dramatic. 


IRVING    (WashinKton).     Lives    of 

Successors  of  jVIohammed. 

Life  of  Gtoldsmith. 

Sketch-book. 

Tales  of  a  Traveller. 

Tour  on  the  Prairies. 

Conquests     of    Granada     and 

Spain.    Two  Parts. 

Life  and  Voyag^es  of  Columbus. 

Two  Parts. 

Companions  of  Columbus :  Their 

Voyages  and  Discoveries. 

— -■  Adventures  of  Captain  Bonne- 
ville in  the  Rocky  Mountains  and  the  Far 
West. 

Knickerbocker's  History  of  New 

York,  from  the  beginning  of  the  World  to 
the  End  of  the  Dutch  Dynasty. 

Tales  of  the  Alhambra. 

Conquest  of  Florida  under  Her- 
nando de  Soto. 

Abbotsford  &  Newstead  Abbey. 

Salmasrundi  ;  or,  The  Whim- Whams 

and  Opinions  of  Launcelot  Langstaff, 
Esq. 

Bracebridge  Hall ;  or.  The  Hu- 
mourists. 

^  Astoria  ;  or,  Anecdotes  of  an  Enter- 
prise beyond  the  Rocky  Mountains. 

—  Wolfert's  Roost,  and  other  Tales. 

LAAIB  (Charles).  Essays  of  Elia. 
With  a  Portrait. 

Last  Essays  of  Elia. 

Eliana.    With  Biographical  Sketch. 

MARRTAT  (Captain).     Pirate  and 

the  Three  Cutters.     With  a  Memoir  of 
the  Author. 


(      23      ) 

Bohn's  Select  Library  of  Standard  Works. 


Price  IS,  in  paper  covers,  and  is,  6d,  in  cloth. 

1.  Bacon's  Essays.    With  Introduction  and  Notes. 

2.  Lessing's  Laokoon.    Beasley's  Translation;  revised,  with  Intro- 

duction, Notes,' &c.,  by  Edward  Bell,  M.A.    With  Frontispiece. 

3.  Dante's  Inferno.    Translated,  with  Notes,  by  Rev.  H.  F.  Cary. 

4.  GOETHE^s  Faust.    Part  L    Translated,  with   Introduction,  by 

Anna  Swanwick. 

5.  Goethe's   Boyhood.    Being    Part    I.    of  the    Autobiography. 

Translated  by  J.  Oxenford. 

6.  Schiller's  Mary  Stuart  and  The  Maid  of  Orleans.  Trans- 

lated by  J.  Mellish  and  Anna  Swanwick. 

7.  The  Queen's  English.    By  the  late  Dean  Alford. 

8.  Life  and  Labours  of  the  late  Thomas  Brassey.     By  Sir 

A.  Helps,  K.C.B. 

9.  Plato's  Dialogues  :  The  Apology — Crito—Phaedo— Protagoras. 

With  Introductions. 

10.  MoLitiRE's  Plays:  The  Miser— Tartuffe— The  Shopkeeper  turned 

Gentleman.    Translated  by  C.  H.  Walt,  M.A.    With  brief  Memoir. 

11.  Goethe's  Reineke  Fox,  in  English  Hexameters.    By  A.  Rogers. 

12.  Oliver  Goldsmith's  Plays. 

13.  Lessing'S  Plays  :  Nathan  the  Wise — Minna  von  Bamhelm. 

14.  Plautus's  Comedies:  Trinummus  —  Menaechmi  —  Aulularia  — 

Captivi. 

15.  Waterloo  Days.    By  C.  A.  Eaton.    With  Preface  and  Notes  by 

Edward  Bell. 

16.  Demosthenes— On    the    Crown.     Translated   by   C.    Rann 

Kennedy. 

17.  The  Vicar  of  Wakefield. 

18.  Oliver  Cromwell.    By  Dr.  Reinhold  Pauli. 

19.  The  Perfect  Life.    By  Dr.  Channing.    Edited  by  his  nephew, 

Rev.  W.  H.  Channing. 

20.  Ladies  in  Parliament,  Horace  at  Athens,  and  other  pieces, 

by  Sir  George  Otto  Trevelyan,  Bart. 

21.  Defoe's  The  Plague  in  London. 

22.  Irving's  Life  of  Mahomet. 

23.  Horace's  Odes,  by  various  hands.  {Out  of  Print, 

24.  Burke's  Essay  on  *  The  Sublime  and  Beautiful.'     With 

Short  Memoir. 

25.  Hauff's  Caravan. 

26.  Sheridan's  Plays. 

27.  Dante's  Purgatorio.    Translated  by  Cary. 

28.  Harvey's  Treatise  on  the  Circulation  of  the  Blood 

29.  Cicero's  Friendship  and  Old  Age. 

30.  Dante's  Paradiso.    Translated  by  Cary. 


THE    NEW  WEBSTER. 


AN  ENTIRELY  NEW  EDITION, 

Thoroughly    Revised,    considerably   Enlarged,    and 

reset  in  new  type  from  beginning  to  end. 


WEBSTER'S 

INTERNATIONAL 

DICTIONARY 


2118  PAGES,     3500  ILLUSTRATIONS. 

Prices:  Cloth,  £\   \\s.  6d,;  Sheep,  £2  2s.; 
Half  Russia,  £2  55*.  ;  Calf,  £2  85. 

Editorial  work  upon  this  revision  has  been  in  active  progress  for  over  10  years. 

Not  less  than  100  editorial  labourers  have  been  engaged  upon  it. 

Over  00,000/.  w^as  expended  in  its  preparation  before  the  first  copy  was  printed. 

Webster  is  the  Standard  in  our  Postal  Telegraph  Department. 

Webster  is  the  Standard  in  the  U.  S.  Government  Printing  Office. 

The  Times  said  of  the  last  edition :  '  It  has  all  along  kept  a  leading  position. ' 

The  Quarterly  Review  said  :  *  Certainly  the  best  practical  dictionary  extant. ' 

The  Lord  Chief  Justice  cf  England  said :  *  I  have  looked,  so  that  I  may  not  go 
wrong,  at  Webster's  Dictionary,  a  work  of  the  greatest  learning,  research,  and 
ability.' 

The  Chief  Justice  of  the  U.S.A.  said  :  '  I  have  used  and  relied  on  Webster's 
Unabridged  Dictionary  for  many  years,  and  entirely  concur  in  the  general 
commendation  it  has  received.' 

Tfie  only  Anfhorlsed  and  Complete  Edition* 


LONDON :  GEORGE  BELL  AND  SONS. 


Ck 


