m. 


<i% 


m 


fcf 


/T 


y> 


^^ 


Tv/ 


W: 


9^ 


I 


eg* 


Digitized  by  the  Internet  Archive 

in  2011  with  funding  from 

Princeton  Theological  Seminary  Library 


http://www.archive.org/details/juniusincludingl02 


? 


t*f 


LETTERS 


OF 


JUNIUS. 


&  atrXHcHl. 


SUA  1,3    itstd  bv    J-UTTIVS 

in   his   co/*r<!3pc7>tlsnee  with 

~M*  I  \  rO  O  J'J  FA.  J.  Z  , 


JUNIUS: 

INCLUDING 

Hettettf  bp  tfje  $ame  ©Better, 

UNDER  OTHER  SIGNATURES, 
(NOW  FIRST  COLLECTED.) 

TO  WHICH  ABE  ADDED, 

HIS  CONFIDENTIAL  CORRESPONDENCE 

WITH 

MR.  WILKES, 

AND   HIS 

PRIVATE  LETTERS 

ADDRESSED  TO 

MR.  H.  S.  WOODFALL. 

WITH 

A  Preliminary  Essay,  Notes,  Fac-Similes,  §c. 

IN  TWO  VOLUMES. 

vol.  n. 


fWVW\  «WWWWVW% 

STAT  NOMINIS  UMBRA. 


PHILADELPHIA: 

PUBLISHED  BY  BRADFORD  AND  INSKEEI" 

AND 

I7CSKEEP  AND  BRADFORD,  NEW-YOKK. 

WHHnm  Fry,  Printer 

1913 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS. 


VOL.  II, 


AiETTEB  PAGE 

Xliv.  Junius  to  the  Printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser    .    .    .      .      1 
The  Duke  of  Richmond's  motion  for  an  address  to  his  Ma- 
jesty, and  Lord  Chatham's  speech  in  support  of  it,  note  .     10 

xlv.     Philo  Junius  to  the  Printer  of  the  PA 12 

XLVI. . — 13 

Erasure  of  the  decision  of  the  House  of  Commons,  on  the 

Middlesex  election,  from  their  Journals,  with  Mr.  Wilkes's 

speech  in  prefacing1  his  motion  for  that  purpose,  note       .     15 

Short  biographical  notice  of  Mr.  Wilkes's  political  life,  from 

the  period  of  publishing  the  North  Briton,  No.  45,  to  his 

death,  note  17,  18 

2ELVII-.    Philo  Junius  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A 19 

SLVIII. 21 

xlix.    Junius  to  the  Duke  of  Gr.dlon 24 

L. 28 

Election  of  Messrs.  Wilkes  and  Bull  to  be  sheriffs  of  Lon- 
don, and  Mr.  Robinson's  note  in  favour  of  the  ministerial 

candidates,  note 30 

Origin  of  the  dispute  between  JuNiusand  Mr.  Home, note     31 

ii.      The  Rev   Mr.  Home  to  Junius 33 

Whipcord  to  the  Rev.  Mr.  Home,  accusing  him  of  plagia- 
rism, note 35 

Z.U.    Junius  to  the  Rev    Mr.  Home 37 

Account  of  the  quarrel  between  Mr.  Wilkes  and  Mr.  Home, 
and  extracts  from  various  letters  which  passed  between 

them  during  the  dispute,  note 38 

xui.     The  Rev.  Mr.  Home  to  J i  nius 46 

Mr.  Home's  explanation,  as  extracted  from  one  of  his  letters, 

of  his  reasons  for  originally  supporting  Mr.  Wilkes,  note      47 
Mr.  Wilkes's  reply  to  a  passage  in  the  foregoing  extract, 

note 49 

W.  B.  to  the  Rev.  Mr.  Home,  on  a  passage  in  his  letter, 
taken  from  a  remark  made  by  Mr.  Wilkes  on  the  margin 
of  his  Clarendon,  note 55 

Vol.  II.  b 


vi  CONTENTS. 

LETTER  PAGE 

bill.    Vote  of  thanks  from  the  Common  Council  to  Lord  Chatham, 

for  his  declaration  in  favour  of  short  parliaments,  note     .     69 
Lord  Chatham's  reply  to  the  committee  deputed  to  pre- 
sent it ib. 

i,iv.     Junius  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A 62 

lv.      Phil"  Junius — —    .........     70 

lvi.     The  Rev.  Mr.  Home  to  Junius 72 

bVll.    Ji  ni us  to  the  Duke  of  Grafton 73 

Statement  of  the  cause  between  the  Duke  of  Portland  and 

Sir  J.  Lowther,  note 78 

Decision  of  the  Court  of  Exchequer  on  it,  note     .     .    .     81,82 
Story  of  the  Oaks,  in  answer  to  Juxius's  charge  against  the 
Duke  of  Grafton  respecting  Whittlebury  Forest,  note      .     82 

Z.VZII.  Junius  to  the  Livery  of  London 83 

LIX. Printer  of  the  P.  A 87 

Queries  respecting  the  legality  of  pressing,  with  the  answers 
of  Messrs.  Wedderburn,  Glynn,  and  Dunning,  note      .     .     92 

LX.      Philo  Junius  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A 97 

Scxvola  to  Junius  in  defence  of  Lord  Camden,  note    .     .     ib. 
Extract  from  a  subsequent  letter  of  Scaevola,  note    .     .     99,  100 
Queries  to  Scxvola  in  consequence  of  the  foregoing  extract, 

note 100 

LXi.     Philo  Junius  to  Zeno ib. 

Zeno,  addressed  to  Junius,  alias  Edmund  the  Jesuit  of  St. 

Omer's,  note ib. 

lxii.    Philo  Junius  to  an  Advocate  in  the  cause  of  the  People  .     .  109 
The  letter  of  an  Advocate,  &c.  to  which  the  foregoing  is  an 

answer,  note ib. 

lxiii.  A  friend  of  Junius,  in  answer  to  a  barrister  at  law    .     .     .  112 

The  barrister's  letter,  note ib. 

lxiv.    To  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A. — Declaration  in  behalf  of  Junius  117 

lxv.     Junius  to  Lord  Chief  Justice  Mansfield 120 

Statement  of  the  case  of  Eyre,  note ib. 

txvi.   Junius  engages  to  make  good  his  charge  against  Lord  C.J. 

Mansfield 121 

lxv 1 1.  Junius  to  the  Duke  of  Grafton 122 

Disgraceful  anecdote  of  Lord  Irnham 123 

lxviii.J'  Niusto  Lord  C.J.  Mansfield •    .    .  126 

The  case  of  John  Taylor,  tried  for  the  murder  of  James 
Smith,  in  which  Baron  Smythe,  who  presided,  was  ac- 
cused of  partiality,  note 145 

Mr.  Dunmng's  defence  of  Baron  Smythe,  note 146 

lxix.   Junius  to  Lord  Camden 147 

Ex' it  ts  from  the  letter  of  Junius  to  Mr.  Wilkes,  dated 

Sept.  7,  1771 149 

Conclusion 151 


CONTENTS.  vii 

PAGE 

MISCELLANEOUS  LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS 153 

t.etteb  i.  Poplicola  on  the  conduct  of  Lord  Chatham 155 

Mr.  Pitt's  (Lord  Chatham's)  letter  in  explanation  of  his  and 

Lord  Temple's  resignation,  note 157 

II.      Poplicola  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A.  in  defence  of  his  last 
letter,  and  in   answer  to  Sir  W.  Draper,  (by  mistake 

called  C.  D.  instead  of  W.  D) 159 

Mr.  Wilkes's  attack  upon  Lord  Chatham,  note 160 

Sir  W.  Draper's  defence  of  him,  note 161 

Hi.  Anti-Sejanus,  jun.  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A.  on  Lord 
Chatham's  forming  part  of  an  administration  under  the 

Earl  of  Bute 163 

iv.      A  Faithful  Monitor  to  the   Printer  of  the  P.  A.  on  Lord 

Townshend  and  his  brother  the  Hon.  Charles  Townshend  165 
v.  Correggio  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A. — Ironical  portraits  of 
the  Duke  of  Grafton,  Mr.  Conway,  Lord  Camden,  Lord 
Northington,  Lord  Shelburne,  T.  Townshend,  the  Mar- 
quis of  Granby,  Lord  Barrington,  Lord  Chatham,  Sir  G. 
Elliott,  and  Governor  Johnstone,  fictitiously  attributed  to 

the  pencil  of  Lord  Townshend 167 

vi.      Moderator  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A. — The  subject  Lord 

Townshend 170 

VII. ,  Grand  council  on  the  affairs  of  Ireland. — Ironical  discussion 
of  instructions  to  be  given  Lord  Townshend,  just  then  ap- 
pointed Lord  Lieutenant  of  Ireland 174 

Mr.  Burke  charged  with  leing  the  author  of  the  foregoing 

satire,  note 180,  181 

viii.  To  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A.  in  support  of  the  pretended  in- 
struction- to  Lord  Townshend 181 

IX.  Y.  Z.  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A. — Discussion,  in  the  form  of 

a  debate,  of  the   King's  speech  on  opening  the  session  of 

parliament,  in  Nov.  1767 185 

Extract  from  the  speech,  note 187 

X.  To  the  Printer  of  the   P.  A.  on  the   subject  of  American 

politics 191 

XI.  Downright  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A. — Attack  on  Lord 

Chatham  as  the  cause  of  the  increase  of  the  national  debt  195 
xn.     To  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A. — Commission  for  holding  the 

privy  seal,  during  the  illness  of  Lord  Chatham,  attacked  196 
xi ii.     Mnemon  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A.  on  the  grar.t  of  a  part 

of  the  Duke  of  Portland's  estate  to  Sir  J.  Lowther      .     .  200 
xiv.     Mnemon  to  the  Pi  inter  of  the  P.  A — The  same  subject  con- 
tinued       203 

Lord  North's  defence  of  the  grant  in  question,  note       .      .  206 

xv.      Anti-van-Teague  in  answer  to  Mnemon 208 

xvi.    Anti-Stuart  in  reply  to  Anti-van-Teague 209 


viii  CONTENTS. 

LETTER  i-AGC 

xvii.  C.  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A. — The  ministry  attacked  for 
suffering  Mr.  Wilkes  to  be  at  large  with  an  outlawry 
hanging  over  him ...  211 

Xviii.  Qjn  the  Corner  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A.  in  support  of  the 

foregoing 215 

Xix.     C.  to  the  Printer  of  the  P  A.  on  the  subject  of  nnU.im  tempi's  216 
xx.       To  the  Duke  of  Grafton  on  his  taking  Miss  Pars  >ns  to  the 

opera 219 

xxi.  Bifions  to  the  Printer  of  the  P  A.  on  the  Duke  of  Grafton's 
breach  of  promise  to  the  Duke  of  Portland  respecting  his 
estate 221 

xxii.  C.  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A.  on  the  commission  for  open- 
ing parliament 224  ' 

xxin.   Valerius  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A.  in  defence  of  "  the  Duke 

of  Portland's  case" 226 

xxiv.  Fiat  Justitia  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A. — Attack  on  Lord 
Barriiigton's  letter,  thanking  the  guards  for  their  conduct 

in  St   George's  Fields 229 

Lord  Barrington's  letter  and  account  of  the  riot,  notes    .     .  230 

xxv  Pomon  i  to  Master  Harry  in  Black  boy  Alley,  on  his  du- 
plicity      232 

xxvi     C.  t<  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A. — The  new  commission  of  the 

board  of  trade  ridiculed 233 

xxvii.  Insomnis  to  Mr.  Woodfall  in  defence  of  the  board   ....  235 
xx  vi ii.  C.  to  the  Printer  of  the  P    A. — Reply  to  Insomnis      .      .     .237 

xxix.    To  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A.  on  the  subject  of  American 

politics 240 

xxx.     L.  L-  to  the   Printer  of  the  P.  A. — Sir  Jeffery   Amherst's 

dismission  from  his  government  of  Virginia  considered   .  243 

xxxi.    To  th<   Printer  of  the  P.  A  — American  politics  further  dis- 
cussed, and  Mr.  Grenville's  character  defended      .      .     .  245 
A  letter  from  that  gentleman  to  Mr.  Knox  on  the  subject  of 
America,  note 248 

xxxn.  Lucius  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A. — Sir  J  Amherst's  dis- 
mission       249 

xxxiii.  Attieus  to  the  Printer  of  the   P  A-  on  the  general  state  of 

the  country 250 

xxxiv.  Valerius  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A  attributing  the  dismis- 
sion of  Sir  J.  Amherst  to  the  influence  of  Lord  Bute   .     .  254 

xxxv.    Lucius  to  the  E..rl  of  Hillsborough,  on  Sir  J.  A.'s  dismission  258 

kxxvi.  Cleophas  to  th    Printer  of  the  P.  A.  in  defence  of  the  Earl 

of  Hillsborough 262 

xxxvn  1  .ii'  in   t     he  hi -rl  of  H.  in  reply  to  Cleophas 265 

Lord  H.'s  vtter   o  Sir  J.  A.  and  A.  B.'s  answer,  notes    .     .  266 

3W£vm-L.  L.  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A.  in  support  of  Sir  J.  A.  .    .  27© 


CONTENTS.  ix 

LETTER  ?AGE 

xxxix.  Lucius  to  the  Earl  of  Hillsborough. — The  same  subject  con- 

tinued 271 

XL.      Cleophas  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A.  in  answer  to  Lucius     .  272 
XLi.     Lucius  to  the  Earl  of  H. —  Attack  upon  his  Lordship  con- 

tinued 275 

xlii.    The  same  to  the  same 279 

Conclusion  of  Scrutator's  letter  in  answer  to  the  foregoing, 

note 281 

Corrector  in  reply  to  some  answers  given  to  Lucius's  pre- 
ceding letter,  note 282 

Xtiii.  Lucius  to  the  Earl  of  H.  on  the  subject  of  Sir  J.  A.     .     .     .  283 

XLiv     The  same  to  the  same     ....  286 

xlv.    Atticus  to  the  Printer  of  the  P   A.  on  the  state  of  the  nation  289 
xlvi.    Temporum  Felicitas  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A. — Ironical 

defence  of  Lord  Hillsborough  in  the  affair  of  Sir  J.  A.      .  291 
xlvii.  Brutus  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A.  in  reply  to  an  attack  on 

the  letter  of  Atticus 293 

xlvi 1 1.  Atticus  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A.  giving  a  description  of 
the  members  who  formed  the   administration,  together 

with  the  then  state  of  the  country 294 

xlix.  Why?  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A.  on  the  appointment  of 
Lord  Rochford  to  be  secretary  for  the  Northern  depart- 
ment            ...  301 

l.       Brutus  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A.  in  support  of  the  letters 

of  Atticus 303 

Li.      Atticus  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A. — The  subject  of  his  last 

continued 305 

Lli.  Junius  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A. — Observations  on  the 
conduct  of  the  Duke  of  Grafton  and  Lord  Camden  to- 
wards Mr.  Wilkes 309 

MIX.    To  the  Rt.  H  >n.  G.  Grenville  on  American  affairs      .     .     .  3H 
Character  of  Mr.  Grenville,  and  anecdote  respecting  Florida 
and  Louisiana,  by  Mr.  Knox,  formerly  his  private  secre- 
tary, note 313 

LIV.     Junius  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.   A  in  consequence  of  the 

monody  on  his  supposed  death  by  Poetik  stos     .     .    .     .  314 
The  monody,  and  Silurus's  description  of  Junius,  note  .    .  315 
LV.      Your  real  Friend,  to  the  Marquis  of  Gran  by,  to  induce  his 
vote  against  administration,  on  the  question  of  seating 

Col.  Luttrell  for  Middlesex 317 

lvi.  Simplex  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A. —  An  attack  on  the  Duke 
of  Grafton  and  Sir  Wm.  Blackstone,  for  the  pardon  of 

M'Quirk 318 

&VII.   Amicus  Curiae  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A.  in  defence  of  the 

Letters  of  Junius 320 


x  CONTENTS. 

LETTER  SAGE 

xvm.  Junia  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A. — A  pretended  female  chal- 
lenge to  Junius,  and  in  support  of  the  decision  of  the 
House  of  Commons  on  the  Middlesex  election     ....  323 
xix.     Junius  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A.  assuming  Junia  to  he  his 

wife 326 

Junius  disavows,  though  not  directly,  the  last  letter,  note    327 
xx.      Augur  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A.  reprobating  the  abusive 

language  of  the  ministerial  writers 327 

xai.  A.  B.  to  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  printed  by  the  desire  of, 
though  not  written  by,  Junius,  on  certain  justices  of  the 
peace  being  made  for  the  county  of  Leicester  at  the  re- 
quest of  Lord  Denbigh 329 

xxn.    Messala  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A.  in  reply  to  the  foregoing  332 
xxiii.  X.  X.  to  the   Printer  of  the  P.  A.  with  a  letter  from  Mr. 

Onslow  to  Mr  Wilkes 333 

Another  letter  of  Mr.  Onslow  to  Mr.  Wilkes,  note      .     .    .  334 
xxiv.   X.  X.  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A.  in  answer  to  Modestus  on 

the  subject  of  General  Gansel's  rescue .  336 

xxv.  Y.  Y.  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A.  being  a  reply  to  the  pre- 
ceding letter 337 

txvi.  X.  X.  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A.  in  rejoinder 340 

xxvii.  Modestus  to  Junius,  in  support  of  the  officers  concerned  in 

General  Gansel's  rescue 341 

xxvii  i.  X.  X.  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A.  on  the  subject  of  the  fore- 
going  344 

lxix.  Domitian  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A. — Sketches  of  the  charac- 
ters of  several  members  of  administration     345 

xxx.  Moderatus  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A.  on  the  dispute  which 
occurred  with  the  sheriffs  of  London  previous  to  present- 
ing the  city  address,  &c 349 

Further  particulars  of  this  dispute,  with  Lord  Weymouth's 

letters,  note ib. 

XXXI.  Q,  in  the  Corner  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A.  wherein  Miss 
Bradshaw  is*charged  with  having  sold  the  place  of  sur- 
veyor of  the  pines  in  America 353 

xxxii.  A  labourer  in  the  same  cause,  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A.  in 
dissent  to  a  recommendation  that  Mr.  Wilkes  should 
stand  forward  as  a  candidate  for  the  city  of  London  on  the 

death  of  Alderman  Beckford 354 

Mr.  Aderman  Townshend's  trial  of  the  validity  of  the  land- 
tax  act,  on  the  pretence  that  the  intrusion  of  Mr.  Luttrell 

had  vitiated  the  parliament,  note 355 

XXXIII.  Mr.  Grey  Cooper  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A.  in  answer  to  Qjn 

the  Corner 358 

.  i  v.  Q_  in  the  Corner  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A.  in  reply    .   .    .  ib. 


CONTENTS.  xi 

LETTER  PACE 

lxxv.   Q_in  the  Corner  to  Thomas  Bradshaw,  Esq.  on  the  subject 

of  his  former  letters 359 

lxxvi.  A  labourer  in  the  same  cause  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A.  in 

support  of  his  previous  opinion 360 

lxxvii.  Testis  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A.  being  remarks  on  a  declara- 
tion of  Lord  Barrington,  reflecting1  upon  all  the  general 

officers  of  the  army 363 

Lxxvm.Testiculus  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A. — An  ironical  defence 

of  his  Lordship 364 

lxxix.  Domitian  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A. — A  review  of  the  poli- 
tical conduct  of  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  and  imitation  of  his 

oratorial  powers 366 

lxxx.    Chapter  of  Facts  or  Materials  for  History 370 

lxxxi.    Second  Chapter  of  Facts,  &c 372 

txxxii.  Phalaris  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A.  on  Lord  Mansfield  lay- 
ing a  copy  of  his  charge  in  Woodfall's  case  on  the  table 

of  the  House  of  Lords 373 

Nerva's  defence  of  his  Lordship,  note id. 

lxxx  ii  i.  Domitian  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A  on  the  re-appointment 

ef  Lord  Sandwich  to  be  minister  for  foreign  affairs      .      .  379 

lxxxiv.  Phalaris'  card  to  Sir 381 

lxxxv.  Intelligence  Extraordinary. — On  Lord  Sandwich's  removal 
to  the  admiralty,  and  Whately's  conduct  after  the  death 

of  G.  Grenville 382 

lxxxvi.  Anti-W.  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A.  in  defence  of  Junius  .  383 
lxxxvii.  Domitian  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A. — Review  of  the  con- 
duct of  the  Princess  Dowager  of  Wales,  and  observations 
on  the  different  members  who  composed  the  ministry      .  384 
lxxxviii.  A  Member  of  one  House,  &c.  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A. 

on  the  convention  with  Spain  respecting  Falkland's  Islands  391 

Further  account  of  this  occurrence,  note #. 

Maserano's  declaration,  and  the  Earl  of  Rochford's  ac- 
ceptance, note n. 

Lord  Chatham's  queries  respecting  the  declaration,  and 

Lord  Mansfield's  answer,  note 393 

Address  of  th.^'.ks  carried  in  both  houses  of  parliament, 

note 394 

Protest  against  the  address  of  the  House  of  Lords,  signed 

by  nineteen  peers,  note H. 

lxxxix.  A.  B.  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A.  upon  Lord  Gower's  elec- 
tion to  be  a  Knight  of  the  Garter      399 

xc.      Vindex  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A.  upon  the  Spanish  de- 
claration       401 

xci.      Vindex  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A.  upon  the  same     ,     .    .402 


xii  CONTENTS. 

LETTER  PACE 

sen.    An  Englishman,  8tc.  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A.  on  the  sub- 
ject of  the  power  of  the  House  of  Commons  to  imprison 

during  pleasure 402 

Detail  of  the  origin  of  this  dispute   by  the  resistance  of 

Wheble  and  Miller,  note 403 

The  Lord  Mayor's  speech  in  the  House  of  Commons,  and 

his  committal  to  the  Tower,  note 404 

xcm.  G.  W.'s  address  to  the  Lord  Mayor,  &c.  on  the  proclamation 

for  taking  the  printers  into  custody 406 

Mr.  Morris's  speech  to  the  Bill  of  Rights'  Society  on  this 

subject,  note 411 

xciv.    G.  W  's  second  address  to  the  Lord  Mayor,  &c.  on  the  pri- 
vilege of  parliament 412 

Lord  Chief  Justice  Holt's  opinion  upon  the  subjects  of  the 

foregoing  letters,  note 417 

xcv.     A  Whig  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A.  upon  the  same  subjects  417 
Minutes  of  the  House  of  Commons  in  respect  to  their  mes- 
senger, note 422 

The  messenger  indicted  in  defiance  of  the  resolution  of  the 

house,  and  a  true  bill  found  against  him,  note      ....  424 
A  noli    prosequi  entered,   and  the   speech   of  Mr.    Adair 

against  it,  note ib. 

Mr.  Attorney  General's  speech  in  answer,  note     ....  428 

Mr.  Adair's  reply  to  the  Attorney  General 4J0 

and  noli  prosei/ui  granted,  note 431 

xcvi.    Henricus  to  the  Earl  of  Suffolk  on  his  joining  administration  <±25 

xcvu.  Henricus  to  the  Earl  of  Suffolk,  on  the  same 436 

xcv n i.  Domitian's  answer  to  a  card  calling  upon  him  to  bring  for- 
ward the  affair  of  H  in  e's  patent     .         439 

xcix.    An  Innocent  Reader  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A.  being  an  ac- 
count of  the  Emperor  Valentinian 449 

c.       Anti-Fox  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A.— An  attack  on  the  late 

Mr.  Fox      .     • 441 

ci.      A.  B.  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A.  in  support  of  Junius  on  the 

bailment  of  Eyre 442 

One  of  the  Bail  and  Anti-Junius  in  defence  of  Lord  Mans- 
field, notes 442,443 

en.     Cumbriensis  to  the  Duke  of  Cumberland — Ironical  congra- 
tulation on  his  marriage  with  Col.  Luttrell's  sister,  Mrs. 

Horton 445 

CHI]    Anti-Belial  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A.  requesting  that  Lord 

Mansfield  might  be  left  to  the  care  of  Junius     .     .     .     .447 
civ.     Juniper  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A.  in  support  of  Junius    .    ib. 
cv.     Veteran  to  Lord  Burrington  on  Mr.  Chamier  being  made  de- 
puty secretary  at  war 449 


CONTENTS,  liiil 

^gTTEB  PAGE 

cvi.  Anti-Belial  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A.  In  defence  of  the 
doctrine  maintained  by  Junius,  in  Letter  lxviii.  to  Lord 
Mansfield 452 

cvn.    Veteran  to  Lord  Barrington  on  his  political  tergiversation    454 
dviix.  Veteran  to  Lord  Barrington  on  his  insult  to  the  army  and  to 

General  Harvey 457 

Cix.    Veteran  to  Lord  Barrington. — General  observations  on  his 

political  conduct 460 

ex.     Veteran  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A.  on  the  removal  of  Messrs. 

D'Oyly  and  Francis  from  the  War  Office 463 

cxi.     Scotus  to  Lord  Barrington. — Ironical  defence  of  the  Scotch  464 

Cxi i.  Arthur  Tell-truth  to  the  lords  of  the  admiralty  on  the  ap- 
pointment of  Mr.  Bradshaw  to  be  a  member  of  that 
board 466 

cxi ii.  Nemesis  to  the  Printer  of  the  P.  A.  which  the  author  en- 
titled. Memoirs  of  Lord  Barrington     .  .....  46? 


Vol.  IL 


LETTERS 


OF 


JUNIUS,  &c. 


LETTER  XLIV. 

TO  THE  PRINTKR  OF  THE  PUBLIC  ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  22  April,  1771. 

JO  write  for  profit  without  taxing  the  press*; — to  write 
for  fame  and  to  be  unknown; — to  support  the  inrrigues  of 
faction  and  to  be  disowned,  as  a  dangerous  auxiliary,  by 
every  party  in  the  kingdom,  are  contradictions,  which  the 
minister  must  reconcile,  before  I  forfeit  my  credit  with  the 
public.  I  may  quit  the  service,  but  it  would  be  absurd  to 
suspect  me  of  desertion.  Th<_  reputation  of  these  papers  is 
an  honourable  pledge  for  my  attachment  to  the  people.  To 
sacrifice  a  respected  character,  and  to  renounce  the  esceem, 
of  societv,  requires  more  than  Mr.  Wedderburne'sf  resolu- 
tion; and  though,  in  him,  it  was  rather  a  profession  than  a 
desertion  of  his  principles,   [I  speak  tenderly  of  this  gentle- 

*  See  Private  Letter,  No.  59.  Edit. 

■j-Mr.  Wedderburne,  progressively  baron  Loughborough  and  earl  of 
Rosslyn,  had,  on  the  12th  of  January  preceding  the  date  of  this  letter,  been 
promoted  to  the  offices  of  solicitor  general,  and  cofferer  to  che  Qiieen. 
His  politics  may,  therefore,  be  ascertained  without  trouble;  yet  he  had 
been  inducted  into  public  life,  under  the  auspices  of  George  Gremille 
after  the  latter  had  professed  the  principles  of  Whiggism,  and  whi'e  he 
was  a  partisan  of  Lord  Rockingham:  and  it  is  to  '.1  is  d<  fecti".-  from  the 
tenets  Mr.  Wedderburne  avowed  till  this  period,  that  our  author  here 
alludes.  Edit. 

Vol.  II.  A 


2  LETTERS  OF 

man,  for  when  treachery  is  in  question,  I  think  we  should 
make  allowances  for  a  Scotchman,]  yet  we  have  seen  him  in 
the  Hous>>  of  Commons  overwhelmed  with  confusion,  and 
almost  be  reft  of  his  faculties. — But  in  truth,  Sir,  I  have  left 
no  room  for  an  accommodation  with  the  piety  of  St.  James's. 
My  offences  are  not  to  be  redeemed  by  recantation  or  re- 
pentance. On  one  side,  our  warmest  patriots  would  disclaim 
me  as  a  burthen  to  their  honest  ambition.  On  the  other,  the 
vilest  prostitution,  if  Junius  could  descend  to  it,  would  lose 
its  natural  merit  and  influence  in  the  cabinet,  and  treachery 
be  no  longer  a  recommendation  to  the  royal  favour. 

The  persons,  who,  till  within  these  few  years,  have  been 
most  distinguished  by  their  zeal  for  high  church  and  prero- 
gative, are  now,  it  seems,  the  great  assertors  of  the  privileges 
of  the  House  of  Commons.  This  sudden  alteration  of  their 
sentiments  or  language  carries  with  it  a  suspicious  appear- 
ance. When  I  hear  the  undefined  privileges  of  the  popular 
branch  of  the  legislature  exalted  by  Tories  and  Jacobites,  at 
the  expence  of  those  strict  rights,  which  are  known  to  the 
subject  and  limited  by  the  laws,  I  cannot  but  suspect,  that 
some  mischievous  scheme  is  in  agitation,  to  destroy  both 
law  and  privilege,  by  opposing  them  to  each  other.  They 
who  have  uniformly  denied  the  power  of  the  whole  legisla- 
ture to  alter  the  descent  of  the  crown,  and  whose  ancestors, 
in  rebellion  against  his  Majesty's  family,  have  defended 
that  doctrine  at  the  hazard  of  their  lives,  now  tell  us  that 
privilege  of  parliament  is  the  only  rule  of  right,  and  the  chief 
security  of  the  public  freedom. — I  fear,  Sir,  that,  while  forms 
remain,  there  has  been  some  material  change  in  the  substance 
of  our  constitution.  The  opinions  of  these  men  were  too  ab- 
surd to  be  so  easily  renounced.  Liberal  minds  are  open  to 
conviction. — Liberal  doctrines  are  capable  of  improvement. 
— There  are  proselytes  from  atheism,  but  none  from  super- 
stition.— If  their  present  professions  were  sincere,  I  think 
they  could  not  but  be  highly  offended  at  seeing  a  question, 
concerning  parliamentary  privilege,  unnecessarily  started  at 
a  season  so  unfavourable  to  the  House  of  Commons,  and  by 


JUNIUS.  3 

so  very  mean  and  insignificant  a  person  as  the  minor  Onslow*, 
They  knew  that  the  present  House  of  Commons,  having 
commenced  hostilities  with  the  people,  and  degraded  the 
authority  of  the  laws  by  their  own  example,  were  likely 
enough  to  be  resisted,  per  fas  et  nefas.  If  they  were  really 
friends  to  privilege,  they  would  have  thought  the  question 
of  right  too  dangerous  to  be  hazarded  at  this  season,  and 
without  the  formality  of  a  convention,  would  have  left  it  un- 
decided. 

I  have  been  silent  hitherto,  though  not  from  that  shame- 
ful indifference  about  the  interests  of  society,  which  too  many 
of  us  profess,  and  call  moderation.  I  confess,  Sir,  that  I  felt 
the  prejudices  of  my  education,  in  favour  of  a  House  of 
Commons,  still  hanging  about  me.  I  thought  that  a  question, 
between  law  and  privilegef,  could  never  be  brought  to  a 
formal  decision,  without  inconvenience  to  the  public  service, 
or  a  manifest  diminution  of  legal  liberty; — that  it  ought 
therefore  to  be  carefully  avoided:  and  when  I  saw  that  the 
violence  of  the  House  of  Commons  had  carried  them  too  far 
to  retreat,  I  determined  not  to  deliver  a  hasty  opinion  upon 
a  matter  of  so  much  delicacy  and  importance. 

The  state  of  things  is  much  altered  in  this  country,  since 
it  was  necessary  to  protect  our  representatives  against  the 
direct  power  of  the  crown.  We  have  nothing  to  apprehend 
from  prerogative,  but  every  thing  from  undue  influence. 
Formerly  it  was  the  interest  of  the  people,  that  the  privileges 
of  parliament  should  be  left  unlimited  and  undefined.  At 
present  it  is  not  only  their  interest,  but  I  hold  it  to  be  essen- 

*  It  was  this  gentleman  who  moved  the  resolution  against  the  printers 
already  noticed;  and  who  commenced  a  prosecution  for  defamation  against 
Home,  in  which  he  was  not  successful;  and  of  which  the  reader  will  find 
an  account  in  note  to  Private  Letters,  No  5. 

f  The  transaction  referred  to  is  the  resistance  of  the  authority  of  a  mere 
royal  proclamation,  and  a  mere  order  of  the  House  of  Commons  by  the 
magistrates  of  the  city;  and  the  arrests  and  counter-arrests  that  followed; 
the  commitment  of  the  Lord  Mayor  and  Aldermen  to  the  Tower,  and  the 
petitions  and  remonstrances  to  his  Majesty  for  the  dissolution  of  a  parlia- 
ment that  had  acted  so  unconstitutionally.  See  note  to  Miscellaneous  Let- 
ters, No.  xcu.  and  p.  217,  vol.  I.  Edit 


4  LETTERS  OF 

tially  necessary  to  the  preservation  of  the  constitution,  that 
the  privileges  of  parliament  should  be  strictly  ascertained, 
and  confined  within  the  narrowest  bounds  the  nature  of  their 
institution  will  admit  of.   Upon  the  same  principle,  on  which 
I  would  have  resisted  prerogative  in  the  last  century,  I  now 
resist  privilege.  It  is  indifferent  to  me,  whether  the  crown, 
by  its  own  immediate  act,  imposes  new,  and  dispensts  with 
old  laws,  or  whether  the  same  arbitrary  power  produces  the 
same  effects  through  the  medium  of  the  House  of  Commons. 
Wc  trusted  our  representatives  with  privileges  for  their  own 
defence  and  ours.   We  cannot  hinder  their  desertion,  but  we 
can  prevent  their  carrying  over  their  arms  to  the  service  of 
the  enemy. — It  will  be  said,  that  I  begin  with  endeavouring 
to  reduce  the  argument  concerning  privilege  to  a  mere  ques- 
tion of  convenience; — that  I  deny  at  one  moment  what  I 
would  allow   at  another;  and  that  to  resist  the  power  of  a 
prostituted   House  of  Commons  may  establish  a  precedent 
injurious  to  all  future  parliaments. — To  this  I  answer  gene- 
rally, that  human  affairs  are  in  no  instance  governed  by  strict 
positive  right.   If  change  of  circumstances  were  to  have  no 
weight  in  directing  our  conduct  and  opinions,  the  mutual 
intercourse  of  mankind  would  be  nothing  more  than  a  con- 
tention between  positive  and  equitable  right.  Society  would 
be  a  state  of  war,  and  law  itself  would  be  injustice.  On  this 
general  ground,  it  is  highly  reasonable,  that  the  degree  of  our 
submission  to  privileges,  which  have  never  been  defined  by 
any  positive  law,  should  be  considered  as  a  question  of  con- 
venience, and  proportioned  to  the  confidence   we  repose  in 
the  integrity  of  our  representatives.   As  to  the  injury  we 
$nay  do  to  any  future  and  more  respectable  House  of  Com- 
mons, I  own  I  am  not  now  sanguine  enough  to  expect  a 
nvve  plentiful  harvest  of  parliamentary  virtue  in  one  year 
than  another.  Our  political  climate  is  severely  altered;  and, 
without  dwelling  upon  the  depravity  of  modern  times,  I  think 
no  reasonable  man  will  expect  that,  as  human  nature  is  con- 
stituted, the  enormous  influence  of  the  crown  should  cease 
to  prevail  over  the  virtue  of  individuals.  The  mischief  lies 
toi  deep  to  be  cured  by  any  remedy,  less  than  some  great 


JUNIUS.  5 

convulsion,  which  may  either  carry  back  the  constitution  to 
its  original  principles,  or  utterly  destroy  it.  I  do  not  doubt 
that,  in  the  first  session  after  the  next  election,  some  popular 
measures  may  be  adopted.  The  present  House  of  Commons 
have  injured  themselves  by  a  too  early  and  public  profession 
of  their  principles;  and  if  a  strain  of  prostitution,  which  had 
no  example,  were  within  the  reach  of  emulation,  it  might  be 
imprudent  to  hazard  the  experiment  too  soon.  But  after  all, 
Sir,  it  is  very  immaterial  whether  a  House  of  Commons 
shall  preserve  their  virtue  for  a  week,  a  month,  or  a  year. 
The  influence  which  makes  a  septennial  parliament  depen- 
dent upon  the  pleasure  of  the  crown,  has  a  permanent  opera- 
tion, and  cannot  fail  of  success. — My  premises,  I  know,  will 
be  denied  in  argument,  but  every  man's  conscience  tells  him 
thev  are  true.  It  remains  then  to  be  considered,  whether  it 
be  for  the  interest  of  the  people  that  privilege  of  parliament 
(which*,  in  respect  to  the  purposes,  for  which  it  has  hitherto 
been  acquiesced  under,  is  merely  nominal)  should  be  con- 
tracted within  some  certain  limits,  or  whether  ihe  subject 
shall  be  left  at  the  mercy  of  a  power,  arbitrary  upon  the  face 
of  it,  and  notoriously  under  the  direction  of  the  crown. 

I  do  not  mean  to  decline  the  question  of  right.  On  the 
contrary.  Sir,  I  join  issue  with  the  advocates  for  privilege, 
and  affirm,  that,  "  excepting  the  cases,  wherein  the  House 
ol  Commons  are  a  court  of  judicature,  [to  which,  from  the 
nature  of  their  office,  a  coercive  power  must  belong]  and  ex- 
cepting such  contempts  as  immediately  interrupt  their  pro- 
ceedings, they  have  no  legal  authority  to  imprison  any  man 

*  "  The  necessity  of  securing  the  House  of  Commons  against  the  King's 
power,  so  that  no  interruption  might  be  given  either  to  the  attendance  of 
the  members  in  parliament,  or  to  the  freedom  of  debate,  was  the  founda- 
tion of  parliamentary  privilege;  and  we  may  observe,  in  all  the  addresses 
of  new  appointed  speakers  to  the  Sovereign,  the  utmost  privilege  they  de- 
mand is  liberty  of  speech  and  freedom  from  arrests.  The  very  word  pri- 
vilege, means  no  more  than  immunity,  or  a  safeguard  to  the  party  who 
possesses  it,  and  can  never  be  construed  into  an  active  power  of  invading 
the  .ights  of  others."  Author. 

This  and  some  of  the  following  notes  form  p^rt  of  a  Letter  signed  a 
Whig,  and  will  be  found  in  the  Miscellaneous  Collection  numbered  xcv. 
—Edit, 


6  LETTERS  OF 

for  any  supposed  violation  of  privilege  whatsoever." — It  is 
not  pretended  that  privilege,  as  now  claimed,  has  ever  been 
defined  or  confirmed  by  statute;  neither  can  it  be  said  with 
any  colour  of  truth,  to  be  a  part  of  the  common  law  of  Eng- 
land, which  had  grown  into  prescription,  long  before  we 
knew  any  thing  of  the  existence  of  a  House  of  Commons. 
As  for  the  law  of  parliament  it  is  only  another  name  for  the 
privilege  in  question;  and  since  the  power  of  creating  new 
privileges  has  been  formally  renounced  by  both  houses,—— 
since  there  is  no  code,  in  which  we  can  study  the  law  of 
parliament,  we  have  but  one  way  left  to  make  ourselves 
acquainted  with  it; — that  is,  to  compare  the  nature  of  the 
institution  of  a  House  of  Commons,  with  the  facts  upon  re- 
cord. To  establish  a  claim  of  privilege  in  either  house,  and 
to  distinguish  original  right  from  usurpation,  it  must  appear 
that  it  is  indispensably  necessary  for  the  performance  of  the 
duty  they  are  employed  in,  and  also  that  it  has  been  uni- 
formly allowed.  From  the  first  part  of  this  description  it 
follows  clearly,  that  whatever  privilege  does  of  right  belong 
to  the  present  House  of  Commons,  did  equally  belong  to 
the  first  assembly  of  their  predecessors,  was  as  completely 
vested  in  them,  and  might  have  been  exercised  in  the  same 
extent.  From  the  second  we  must  infer  that  privileges, 
which,  for  several  centuries,  were  not  only  never  allowed, 
but  never  even  claimed  by  the  House  of  Commons,  must  be 
founded  upon  usurpation.  The  constitutional  duties  of  a 
House  of  Commons,  are  not  very  complicated  nor  mysteri- 
ous. They  are  to  propose  or  assent  to  wholesome  laws  for 
the  benefit  of  the  nation.  They  are  to  grant  the  necessary 
aids  to  the  King; — petition  for  the  redress  of  grievances, 
and  prosecute  treason  or  high  crimes  against  the  state.  If 
unlimited  privilege  be  necessary  to  the  performance  of  these 
duties,  we  have  reason  to  conclude  that,  for  many  centuries 
after  the  institution  of  the  House  of  Commons,  they  were 
never  performed.  I  am  not  bound  to  prove  a  negative,  but 
I  appeal  to  the  English  history  when  I  affirm  that,  with  the 
exceptions  already  stated,  (which  yet  I  might  safely  relin- 
quish) there  is  no  precedent,  from  the  year  1265  to  the  death 


JUNIUS.  7 

of  Queen  Elizabeth,  of  the  House  of  Commons  having  im- 
prisoned any  man  (not  a  member  of  their  house)  for  con- 
tempt or  breach  of  privilege.  In  the  most  flagrant  cases, 
and  when  their  acknowledged  privileges  were  most  grossly 
violated,  the  poor  Commons,  as  they  then  styled  themselves, 
never  took  the  power  of  punishment  into  their  own  hands. 
They  either  sought  redress  by  petition  to  the  King,  or,  what 
is  more  remarkable,  applied  for  justice  to  the  House  of 
Lords;  and  when  satisfaction  was  denied  them  or  delayed, 
their  only  remedy  was  to  refuse  proceeding  upon  the  King's 
business.  So  little  conception  had  our  ancestors  of  the  mon- 
strous doctrines,  now  maintained,  concerning  privilege,  that 
in  the  reign  of  Elizabeth,  even  liberty  of  speech,  the  vital 
principle  of  a  deliberative  assembly,  was  restrained,  by  the 
Queen's  authority,  to  a  simple  aye  or  no,  and  this  restric- 
tion, though  imposed  upon  three  successive  parliaments*, 
was  never  once  disputed  by  the  House  of  Commons. 

I  know  there  are  many  precedents  of  arbitrary  com- 
mitments for  contempt.  But,  besides  that  they  are  of  too 
modern  a  date  to  warrant  a  presumption  that  such  a  power 
was  originally  vested  in  the  House  of  Commons, — Fact 
alone  does  not  constitute  Right.  If  it  does,  general  warrants 
were  lawful. — An  ordinance  of  the  two  houses  has  a  force 
equal  to  law;  and  the  criminal  jurisdiction  assumed  by  the 
Commons  in  1621,  in  the  case  of  Edward  Lloyd  is  a  good 
precedent,  to  warrant  the  like  proceedings  against  any  man, 
who  shall  unadvisedly  mention  the  folly  of  a  King,  or  the 
ambition  of  a  Princess. — The  truth  is,  Sir,  that  the  greatest 
and  most  exceptionable  part  of  the  privileges  now  contend- 
ed for,  were  introduced  and  asserted  by  a  House  of  Com- 
mons which  abolished  both  monarchy  and  peerage,  and 
whose  proceedings,  although  they  ended  in  one  glorious  act 
of  substantial  justice,  could  no  way  be  reconciled  to  the 
forms  of  the  constitution.  Their  successors  profited  by  the 
example,  and  confirmed  their  power  by  a  moderate  or  a  po- 
pular use  of  it.  Thus  it  grew  by  degrees,  from  a  notorious 

*  La  the  years  1593— 1597—  and  1601. 


8  LETTERS  OF 

innovation  at  one  period,  to  be  tacitly  admitted  as  the  privi- 
lege of  parliament  at  another. 

If  however  it  could  be  proved,  from  considerations  of  ne- 
cessity or  convenience,  that  an  unlimited  power  of  commit- 
ment ought  to  be  intrusted  to  the  House  of  Commons,  and 
thai  hi  fact  they  have  exercised  it  without  opposition,  still, 
in  contemplation  of  law,  the  presumption  is  strongly  against 
them.  It  is  a  leading  maxim  of  the  laws  of  England  (and 
without  it,  all  laws  are  nugatory)  that  there  is  no  right  with- 
out a  remedv,  nor  any  legal  power  without  a  legal  course  to 
carry  it  into  effect.  Let  the  power,  now  in  question,  be  tried 
by  this  rule. — The  speaker  issues  his  warrant  of  attachment. 
The  party  attached  either  resists  force  with  force,  or  appeals 
to  a  magistrate,  who  declares  the  warrant  illegal,  and  dis- 
charges the  prisoner.  Does  the  law  provide  no  legal  means 
for  inforcing  a  legal  warrant?  Is  there  no  regular  proceed- 
ing pointed  out  in  our  law  books  to  assert  and  vindicate  the 
authority  of  so  high  a  court  as  the  House  of  Commons?  The 
question  is  answered  directly  by  the  fact.  Their  unlawful 
commands  are  resisted,  and  they  have  no  remedy.  The  im- 
prisonment of  their  own  members  is  revenge  indeed^  but  it 
is  no  assertion  of  the  privilege  they  contend  for*.  Their 
whole  proceeding  stops,  and  there  they  stand,  ashamed  to 
retreat,  and  unable  to  advance.  Sir,  these  ignorant  men 
should  be  informed  that  the  execution  of  the  laws  of  Eng- 
land is  not  left  in  this  uncertain,  defenceless  condition.  If 
the  process  of  the  courts  of  Westminster-hall  be  resisted, 
they  have  a  direct  course,  sufficient  to  inforce  submission. 
The  court  of  King's  Bench  commands  the  Sheriff  to  raise 
the  posse  comitatus.  The  courts  of  Chancery  and  Exchequer 
issue  a  writ  of  rebellion,  which  must  also  be  supported,  if 

*  Upon  their  own  principles,  they  should  have  committed  Mi*.  Wilkes, 
who  had  been  guilty  of  a  greater  offence  than  even  the  lord  mayor  or  al- 
derman Oliver.  Bill  ai'ter  repeatedly  ordering-  him  to  attend,  they  at  last 
adjourned  beyond  the  day  appointed  for  his  attendance,  and  by  this  mean, 
pitiful  evasion,  gave  up  the  point. — Such  is  the  force  of  conscious  guilt! — 
Author. 

See  Note  to  Miscellaneous  Letters>  No.  xcn.  Edit. 


JUNIUS.  9 

necessary,  by  the  power  of  the  county. — To  whom  will  our 
honest  representatives  direct  their  writ  of  rebellion?  The 
guards,  I  doubt  not,  are  willing  enough  to  be  employed,  but 
they  know  nothing  of  the  doctrine  of  writs,  and  may  think 
it  necessary  to  wait  for  a  letter  from  Lord  Barrington*. 

It  may  now  be  objected  to  me,  that  my  arguments  prove 
too  much;  for  that  certainly  there  may  be  instances  of  con- 
tempt and  insult  to  the  House  of  Commons,  which  do  not 
fall  within  my  own  exceptions,  yet,  in  regard  to  the  dignity 
of  the  house,  ought  not  to  pass  unpunished.  Be  it  so — The 
courts  of  criminal  jurisdiction  are  open  to  prosecutions, 
which  the  Attorney  General  may  commence  by  information 
or  indictment.  A  libel,  tending  to  asperse  or  vilify  the 
House  of  Commons,  or  any  of  their  members,  may  be  as 
severely  punished  in  the  court  of  King's-bench,  as  a  libel 
upon  the  King.  Mr.  De  Grey  thought  so,  when  he  drew  up 
the  information  upon  my  Letter  to  his  Majesty,  or  he  had 
no  meaning  in  charging  it  to  be  a  scandalous  libel  upon  the 
House  of  Commons.  In  my  opinion,  they  would  consult 
their  real  dignity  much  better,  by  appealing  to  the  laws 
when  they  are  offended,  than  by  violating  the  first  principle 
of  natural  justice,  which  forbids  us  to  be  judges,  when  we 
are  parties  to  the  causef. 

I  do  not  mean  to  pursue  them  through  the  remainder  of 
their  proceedings.  In  their  first  resolutions,  it  is  possible 
they  might  have  been  deceived  by  ill-considered  precedents. 
For  the  rest,  there  is  no  colour  of  palliation  or  excuse.  They 

*  In  allusion  to  his  Letter  of  thanks  to  the  guards  for  their  conduct  in 
St.  George's  Fields.  See  the  Letter,  and  the  subject  more  particularly 
touched  upon  in  the  Miscellaneous  Collection,  No.  xxiv.  Edit. 

f  "  If  it  be  demanded,  in  case  a  subject  should  be  committed  by  either 
house,  for  a  matter  manifestly  out  of  their  jurisdiction,  what  remedy  can 
he  have?  I  answer,  that  it  cannot  well  be  imagined  that  the  law,  which 
favours  nothing  more  than  the  liberty  of  the  subject,  should  give  us  a 
remedy  against  commitments  by  the  King  himself,  appearing  to  be  illegal, 
and  yet  give  us  no  manner  of  redress  against  a  commitment  by  our  fellow 
subjects,  equally  appearing  to  be  unwarranted.  But  as  this  is  a  case,  which 
I  am  persuaded  will  never  happen,  it  seems  needless  over  nicely  to  exa- 
mine it."  Hawkins  2.  110. N.B.  He -Mas  a  good  lau-ver,  but  no  prophet. 

Vol.  II.  B 


10  LETTERS  OF 

have  advised  the  King  to  resume  a  power  of  dispensing  with 
the  laws  by  royal  proclamation*;  and  kings  we  see  are  ready 
enough  to  follow  such  advice. — By  mere  violence,  and  with- 
out the  shadow  of  right,  they  have  expunged  the  record  f  of 
a  judicial  proceeding^:.  Nothing  remained,  but  to  attribute 

*  That  their  practice  might  be  every  way  conformable  to  their  princi- 
ples, the  House  proceeded  to  advise  the  crown  to  publish  a  proclamation 
universally  acknowledged  to  be  illegal.  Mr.  Moreton  publicly  protested 
against  it  before  it  was  issued;  and  Lord  Mansfield,  though  not  scrupu- 
lous to  an  extreme,  speaks  of  it  with  horror.  It  is  remarkable  enough, 
that  the  very  men,  who  advised  the  proclamation,  and  who  hear  it  ar- 
raigned every  day  both  within  doors  and  without,  are  not  daring  enough 
to  utter  one  word  in  its  defence,  nor  have  they  ventured  to  take  the  least 
notice  of  Mr.  Wilkes  for  discharging  the  persons  apprehended  under  it. 

fOur  author  refers  to  the  erasure  of  the  transactions  of  the  sitting  Al- 
dermen from  the  book  of  recognizances,  as  stated  in  note  to  Miscellaneous 
Letters,  No.  xcn.  Edit. 

J  Lord  Chatham  very  properly  called  this  the  act  of  a  mob,  not  of  a 
senate.  Author. 

In  a  speech  made  in  support  of  the  following  motion  submitted  to  the 
House  of  Lords,  April  30,  1771. 

The  Duke  of  Richmond  moved,  "  That  an  humble  address  be  present- 
ed to  his  Majesty,  most  dutifully  and  earnestly  beseeching  his  Majesty, 
that,  under  the  late  violations  of  the  rights  of  the  electors  of  Great  Bri- 
tain, in  the  election  for  Middlesex,  still  unredressed,  and  in  the  present 
conflict  which  has  so  unhappily  arisen  between  the  claims  of  privilege  of 
the  House  of  Commons  on  one  side,  and  those  of  magistracy  on  the  other, 
his  Majesty  will,  in  his  paternal  wisdom,  deign  to  open  the  way  to  com- 
pose this  alarming  warfare;  and  that,  in  order  to  prevent  the  said  house 
and  the  nation  from  being  involved  in  intemperate  discussions  of  undefin- 
ed powers,  which,  in  the  extreme,  may  endanger  the  constitution,  and  tend 
to  shake  the  tranquillity  of  the  kingdom,  his  Majesty  will  be  graciously 
pleased  to  recur  to  the  recent  sense  of  his  people,  by  dissolving,  after  the 
end  of  this  session,  the  present  parliament,  and  calling,  with  convenient 
dispatch,  a  new  parliament." 

Lord  Chatham,  in  supporting  this  motion,  "  entered  largely  into  the 
consideration  of  the  melancholy  state  of  the  country; — the  depraved  sys- 
tem of  government,  which  had,  in  a  very  few  years,  reduced  us  from  a 
most  flourishing  to  a  most  miserable  condition.  He  went  through  the  whole 
proceedings  of  the  House  of  Commons  in  the  late  business  of  the  printers, 
and  arraigned  every  part  of  it  in  the  strongest  terms.  He  warmly  defend- 
ed the  magistrates  in  the  conscientious  discharge  of  their  duty; — that  the 
House,  in  committing  them  to  prison  without  hearing  their  defence  upon 
the  point  of  privilege,  had  been  guilty  of  a  gross  and  palpable  act  of  ty- 
ranny;— that  they  had  heard  the  prostituted  electors  of  Shoreham  in  de- 
fence 


JUNIUS.  11 

to  their  own  vote  a  power  of  stopping  the  whole  distribution 
of  criminal  and  civil  justice. 

The  public  virtues  of  the  chief  magistrate  have  long  since 
ceased  to  be  in  question.  But  it  is  said  that  he  has  private 
good  qualities,  and  I  myself  have  been  ready  to  acknowledge 
them.  They  are  now  brought  to  the  test.  If  he  loves  his 
people,  he  will  dissolve  a  parliament,  which  they  can  never 
confide  in  or  respect. — If  he  has  any  regard  for  his  own  ho- 
nour, he  will  disdain  to  be  any  longer  connected  with  such 
abandoned  prostitution.  But  if  it  were  conceivable,  that  a 
king  of  this  country  had  lost  all  sense  of  personal  honour, 
and  all  concern  for  the  welfare  of  his  subjects,  I  confess,  Sir, 
I  should  be  contented  to  renounce  the  forms  of  the  constitu- 

fence  of  an  agreement  to  sell  a  borough  by  auction,  and  had  refused  to 
hear  the  Lord  Mayor  of  London,  in  defence  of  the  laws  of  England; — that 
their  expunging,  by  mere  force,  the  entry  of  the  recognizance,  was  the  act 
of  a?no6,not  of  a  parliament; — but  that  their  daring  to  assume  a  power  of 
stopping  all  prosecutions  by  their  vote,  struck  at  once  at  the  whole  system 
of  the  laws; — that  it  was  solely  to  the  measures  of  government,  equally 
violent  and  absurd,  that  Mr.  Wilkes  owed  all  his  importance; — that  the 
King's  ministers,  supported  by  the  slavish  concurrence  of  the  House  of 
Commons,  had  once  made  him  a  person  of  the  greatest  consequence  in  the 
kingdom; — that  they  in  effect  had  made  him  an  alderman  of  London,  and 
representative  of  the  County  of  Middlesex;  and  now,  it  seems,  they  intend 
to  make  him  Sheriff,  and,  in  due  course,  Lord  Mayor  of  London; — that  the 
proceedings  of  the  House  of  Commons,  in  regard  to  this  gentleman,  made 
the  very  name  of  parliament  ridiculous; — that  after  repeated  resolutions, 
by  which  they  had  declared  him  amenable  to  their  jurisdiction,  they  had 
shamefully  given  up  the  point  at  last,  and,  in  the  face  of  the  world,  ac- 
knowledged him  to  be  their  lord  and  master. — That  there  remained  but 
one  possible  remedy  for  the  disorders,  with  which  the  government  of  this 
country  was  universally  infected; — that  to  save  the  name  and  institution 
of  parliaments  from  contempt,  this  House  of  Commons  must  be  dissolved. 
This  he  hoped  might  restore  good  government  on  one  side, — good  humour 
and  tranquillity  on  the  other; — yet  that  this  was  rather  a  hope  in  him  than 
any  sanguine  expectation.  He  feared  that  it  might  prove  only  a  temporary 
and  partial  remedy; — that  to  resist  the  enormous  influence  of  the  crown, 
some  stronger  barriers  must  be  erected  in  defence  of  the  constitution.  That 
formerly  the  inconveniencies  of  shortening  the  duration  of  parliaments  had 
had  great  weight  with  him,  but  that  now  it  was  no  longer  a  question  of 
convenience,  the  summa  rerum  is  at  stake, — your  whole  constitution  is  giv- 
ing way; — and  therefore,  with  the  most  deliberate  and  solemn  conviction 
to  his  understanding,  he  now  declared  himself  a  convert  to  triennial 

PARLIAMENTS."   EDIT. 


12  LETTERS  OF 

tion  once  more,  if  there  were  no  other  way  to  obtain  substan* 
tial  justice  for  the  people*. 

JUNIUS. 


LETTER  XLV. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF    THE  PUBLIC    ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  1  May,  1771. 

They,  who  object  to  detached  parts  of  Junius's  last  letter, 
either  do  not  mean  him  fairly,  or  have  not  considered  the 
general  scope  and  course  of  his  argument. — There  are  de- 
grees in  all  the  private  vices. — Why  not  in  public  prostitu- 
tion?— The  influence  of  the  crown  naturally  makes  a  septen- 
nial parliament  dependent. — Does  it  follow  that  every  House 
of  Commons  will  plunge  at  once  into  the  lowest  depths  of 
prostitution? — Junius  supposes  that  the  present  House  of 
Commons,  in  going  such  enormous  lengths,  have  been  im- 
prudent to  themselves,  as  well  as  wicked  to  the  public; — that 
their  example  is  not  •within  the  reach  of  emulation; — and  that, 
in  the  first  session  after  the  next  election,  some  popular  mea- 

*  When  Mr.  Wilkes  was  to  be  punished,  they  made  no  scruple  about 
the  privileges  of  parliament;  and  although  it  was  as  well  known  as  any 
matter  of  public  record  and  uninterrupted  custom  could  be,  that  the  mem- 
bers of  either  house  are  privileged,  except  in  case  of  treason,  felony,  or  breach 
of  peace,  they  declared  without  hesitation  that  privilege  of  parliament  did  not 
extend  to  the  case  of  a  seditious  libel;  and  undoubtedly  they  would  have  done 
the  same  if  Mr  Wilkes  had  been  prosecuted  for  any  other  misdemeanour 
whatsoever.  The  ministry  are  of  a  sudden  grown  wonderfully  careful  of 
privileges,  which  their  predecessors  were  as  ready  to  invade.  The  known 
laws  of  the  land,  the  rights  of  the  subject,  the  sanctity  of  charters,  and  the 
reverence  due  to  our  magistrates,  must  :J1  give  way,  without  question  or 
resistance,  to  a  privilege  of  which  no  man  knows  either  the  origin  or  the 
extent.  The  House  of  Commons  judge  of  their  own  privileges  without  ap- 
peal:— they  may  take  oftence  at  the  most  innocent  action,  and  imprison  the 
person  who  offends  them,  during  their  arbitrary  will  and  pleasure.  The 
party  has  no  remedy; — he  cannot  appeal  from  their  jurisdiction;  and  if  he 
questions  the  privilege,  which  he  is  supposed  to  have  violated,  it  becomes 
an  aggravation  of  his  offence.  Surely  this  doctrine  is  not  to  be  found  in 
Magna  Charta.  If  it  be  admitted  without  limitation,  I  affirm  that  there  is 
neither  law  nor  liberty  in  this  kingdom.  We  are  the  slaves  of  the  House 
of  Commons,  and,  through  them,  we  are  the  slaves  of  the  King  and  his 
ministers.  Anonymous. 


JUNIUS.  13 

sures  may  probably  be  adopted.  He  does  not  expect  that  a 
dissolution  of  parliament  will  destroy  corruption,  but  that  at 
least  it  will  be  a  check  and  terror  to  their  successors,  who 
will  have  seen  that,  in  flagrant  cases,  their  constituents  can 
and  xvill  interpose  with  effect. — After  all,  Sir,  will  you  not 
endeavour  to  remove  or  alleviate  the  most  dangerous  symp- 
toms, because  you  cannot  eradicate  the  disease?  Will  you 
not  punish  treason  or  parricide,  because  the  sight  of  a  gibbet 
does  not  prevent  highway  robberies?  When  the  main  argu- 
ment of  Junius  is  admitted  to  be  unanswerable,  I  think  it 
would  become  the  minor  critic,  who  hunts  for  blemishes,  to 
be  a  little  more  distrustful  of  his  own  sagacity. — The  other 
objection  is  hardly  worth  an  answer.  When  Junius  observes 
that  kings  are  ready  enough  to  follow  such  advice,  he  does 
not  mean  to  insinuate  that,  if  the  advice  of  parliament  were 
good,  the  King  would  be  so  ready  to  follow  it. 

PHILO  JUNIUS. 


LETTER  XLVI. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  22  May,  1771. 

Very  early  in  the  debate  upon  the  decision  of  the  Middle- 
sex election,  it  was  well  observed  by  Junius,  that  the  House 
of  Commons  had  not  only  exceeded  their  boasted  precedent 
of  the  expulsion  and  subsequent  incapacitation  of  Mr.  Wal- 
pole,  but  that  they  had  not  even  adhered  to  it  strictly  as  far  as 
it  went.  A  fter  convicting  Mr.  Dyson  of  givingafalse  quotation 
from  the  journals*,  and  having  explained  the  purpose,  which 
that  contemptible  fraud  was  intended  to  answer,  he  proceeds 
to  state  the  vote  itself,  by  which  Mr.  Walpole's  supposed  in- 
capacity was  declared, — viz.  u  Resolved,  That  Robert  Wal- 
pole,  Esq.  having  been  this  session  of  parliament  committed  a 
prisoner  to  the  Tower,  and  expelled  this  house  for  ahigh  breach 
of  trust  in  the  execution  of  his  office,  and  notorious  corruption 
when  secretary  at  war,  was,  and  is  incapable  of  being  elected 

*  See  Junius,  Letter  xx.  vol.  I.  p.  1"5,  note.  Edit. 


14  LETTERS  OF 

a  member  to  serve  in  this  present  parliament:" — and  then 
observes  that,  from  the  terms  of  the  vote,  we  have  no  right 
to  annex  the  incapacitation  to  the  expulsion  only,  for  that,  as 
the  proposition  stands,  it  must  arise  equally  from  the  expul- 
sion and  the  commitment  to  the  Tower.  I  believe,  Sir,  no 
man,  who  knows  any  thing  of  dialectics,  or  who  understands 
English,  will  dispute  the  truth  and  fairness  of  this  construc- 
tion. But  Junius  has  a  great  authority  to  support  him,  which, 
to  speak  with  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  I  accidentally  met  with 
this  morning  in  the  course  of  my  reading.  It  contains  an  ad- 
monition, which  cannot  be  repeatt d  too  often.  Lord  Somers, 
in  his  excellent  tract  upon  the  rights  of  the  people,  after  recit- 
ing the  vote  of  the  convention,  of  the  28th  of  January,  1689, 
viz. — "  That  King  James  the  second,  having  endeavoured 
to  subvert  the  constitution  of  this  kingdom  by  breaking  the 
original  contract  between  King  and  people;  and  by  the  advice 
of  Jesuits  and  other  wicked  persons  having  violated  the  fun- 
damental laws,  and  having  withdrawn  himself  out  of  this 
kingdom,  hath  abdicated  the  government,  &c." — makes  this 
observation  upon  it.  "  The  word  abdicated  relates  to  all  the 
clauses  aforegoing,  as  well  as  to  his  deserting  the  kingdom, 
or  else  they  would  have  been  wholly  in  vain."  And  that  there 
might  be  no  pretence  for  confining  the  abdication  merely  to 
the  withdrawing,  Lord  Somers  farther  observes,  That  King 
fames,  by  refusing  to  govern  us  according  to  that  law,  by 
which  he  held  the  crown,  did  implicitly  renounce  his  title  to  it. 

If  Junius's  construction  of  the  vote  against  Mr.  Walpole 
be  now  admitted,  (and  indeed  I  cannot  comprehend  how  it 
can  honestly  be  disputed)  the  advocates  of  the  House  of 
Commons  must  either  give  up  their  precedent  entirely,  or  be 
reduced  to  the  necessity  of  maintaining  one  of  the  grossest 
absurdities  imaginable,  viz.  "  That  a  commitment  to  the 
Tower  is  a  constituent  part  of,  and  contributes  half  at  least  to 
the  incapacitation  of  the  person  who  suffers  it." 

I  need  not  make  you  any  excuse  for  endeavouring  to  keep 
alive  the  attention  of  the  public  to  the  decision  of  the  Mid- 
dlesex election.  The  more  I  consider  it,  the  more  I  am  con- 
vinced that,  as  a  fact,  it  is  indeed  highly  injurious  to  the 


JUNIUS.  15 

rights  of  the  people;  but  that,  as  a  precedent,  it  is  one  of  the 
most  dangerous  that  ever  was  established  against  those  who 
are  to  come  after  us*.  Yet  I  am  so  far  a  moderate  man,  that 
I  verily  believe  the  majority  of  the  House  of  Commons, 
when  they  passed  this  dangerous  vote,  neither  understood  the 
question,  nor  knew  the  consequence  of  what  they  were  doing. 
Their  motives  were  rather  despicable  than  criminal,  in  the 
extreme.  One  effect  they  certainly  did  not  foresee.  They  are 
now  reduced  to  such  a  situation,  that  if  a  member  of  the  pre- 
sent House  of  Commons  were  to  conduct  himself  ever  so 

*  Mr.  Wilkes  having  been  again  returned  as  one  of  the  members  for  the 
county  of  Middlesex,  in  the  parliaments  of  1774  and  1780,  made  various 
fruitless  efforts  to  get  the  decision  of  the  House  of  Commons  on  this  most 
interesting  controversy,  erased  from  their  journals,  which  he  at  length 
effected,  on  the  dissolution  of  the  administration  of  which  Lord  North  had 
been  at  the  head,  from  the  time  of  the  resignation  of  the  Duke  of  Grafton, 
in  the  year  1770.  This  occurred  May  3,  1782. 

Mr.  Wilkes  prefaced  his  motion  in  the  following  address  to  the  house. 
"  Mr.  Speaker, 

"  I  think  myself  peculiarly  hnppy  at  the  present  moment,  that  I  have 
the  honour  of  submitting  to  the  house  an  important  national  question,  re- 
specting the  rights  of  election,  when  the  friends  and  favourites  of  the  peo- 
ple enjoy,  with  the  smiles  of  our  Sovereign,  the  offices  of  trust  and  power 
in  the  state,  accompanied  with  that  fair  influence,  which  is  necessarily 
created  by  great  ability,  perfect  integrity,  the  purest  political  virtue,  and 
the  remembrance  of  their  former  upright  conduct  in  the  cause  of  the  peo- 
ple. If  the  people  of  England,  Sir,  have  at  any  period  explicitly  and  fully 
declared  an  opinion  on  a  momentous  constitutional  question,  it  has  been 
in  regard  to  the  Middlesex  election  in  1768,  and  the  subsequent  most  pro- 
fligate proceedings  of  an  administration,  hostile,  by  system,  to  the  rights 
of  this  country,  and  every  part  of  the  British  empire.  An  instance  cannot 
be  found  in  our  history  of  a  more  general  concurrence  of  sentiment  among 
the  freeholders  of  England,  and  they  were  joined  by  almost  every  Borough 
and  Corporation  in  the  southern  part  of  the  island.  I  am  satisfied  there- 
fore that  I  now  shall  find  the  real  friends  of  the  people  determined  and 
zealous  in  the  support  of  their  just  claims  and  undoubted  privileges. 

"  Hitherto,  Sir,  every  attempt  for  the  recovery  of  this  invaluable  fran- 
chise, has  been  rendered  fruitless  by  the  arts  and  machinations  of  power 
in  the  hands  of  wicked  men:  and  I  may  with  truth  assert,  that  the  body  of 
the  people  long  addressed,  petitioned,  and  remonstrated  with  manly  firm- 
ness and  perseverance,  without  the  least  effect,  or  even  impression.  The 
fidl  redress  demanded  by  this  injured  nation,  seems  reserved  to  distin- 
guish the  present  propitious  xra  of  public  liberty  among  the  early  and 

blooming 


16  LETTERS  OF 

improperly,  and  in  reality  deserve  to  be  sent  back  to  his  con- 
stituents with  a  mark  of  disgrace,  they  would  not  dare  to 

blooming  honours  of  an  administration,  which  possesses  the  confidence, 
and  daily  conciliates  the  affections  of  a  brave  and  sensible  people.  Their 
voice  was  never  heard  in  a  more  clear  and  distinct  manner,  than  on  this 
point  of  the  first  magnitude,  for  all  the  electors  of  this  kingdom;  and  I 
trust  will  now  be  heard  favourably.  The  general  resentment  and  indigna- 
tion ran  so  high  against  the  house  of  Commons,  which  committed  the 
outrage,  that  their  immediate  dissolution  became  the  prayer  of  numberless 
petitions  to  the  throne.  No  man  scrupled  to  declare  them  unworthy  to  exist 
in  their  political  capacity.  The  public  pronounced  them  guilty  of  sacrificing 
and  betraying  the  rights  which  they  were  called  upon  by  every  tie  of  jus- 
tice and  duty  to  defend.  The  noble  spirit  of  the  freeholders  of  Middlesex, 
persevering  in  the  best  of  causes,  undaunted  by  all  the  menaces  of  power, 
was  the  subject  of  the  most  general  applause  and  admiration.  The  voice  of 
the  people  was  then  in  the  harsh  and  sharp  tone  of  passion  and  anger 
against  ministers.  It  will,  I  am  persuaded,  soon  be  in  the  soft  and  pleasing 
accents  of  joy  and  thankfulness  to  our  deliverers. 

"  It  is  scarcely  possible,  Sir,  to  state  a  question  in  which  the  people  of 
this  free  country  are  more  materially  interested,  than  in  the  right  of  elec- 
tion; for  it  is  the  share  which  they  have  reserved  to  themselves  in  the 
legislature.  When  it  was  wrested  from  them  by  violence,  the  constitution 
was  torn  up  by  the  roots. 

"  I  have  now  the  happiness  of  seeing  the  treasury  bench  filled  with  the 
friends  of  the  constitution,  the  guardians  and  lovers  of  liberty,  who  have 
been  unwearied  and  uniform  in  the  defence  of  all  our  rights,  and  in  par- 
ticular of  this  invaluable  franchise.  I  hail  the  present  auspicious  moment, 
and  with  impatience  expect  'he  completion  of  what  I  have  long  and  fer- 
vently desired  for  my  friends  and  country,  for  the  present  age,  and  a  free 
posterity.  The  former  conduct  of  those  now  in  power,  affords  me  the 
most  sanguine  hopes  of  this  day  seeing  justice  done  to  a  people,  to  whom 
they  have  so  frequently  appealed,  who  now  look  up  to  them  with  ardent 
expectation,  with  pleasure  and  esteem.  Consistency,  Sir,  has  drawn  the 
right  line  of  their  political  conduct  to  this  period.  It  will  now  point  out 
the  same  path  of  public  virtue  and  honour.  May  I  be  indulged  in  a  hint, 
which  I  mean  to  extend  much  beyond  the  business  of  the  day,  when  I  say 
that  consistency  will  be  attended  with  that  stability  and  perfect  security, 
which  are  the  objects  of  every  good  man's  wishes  for  them?  They  have 
given  us  a  fair  earnest  of  their  reverence  for  the  constitution,  by  their 
support  of  two  bills,  essentially  necessary  to  restore  the  purity  and  inde- 
pendency of  parliament;  I  mean  the  bill  for  preventing  contractors  from  sit- 
ting in  the  House  of  Commons,  and  the  bill  for  disabling  officers  of  the  revenue 

from  voting  at  elections?* Mr.  Wilkes  was  here  interrupted  with  a 

message  by  Sir  Francis  Molyneux,  gentleman  usher  of  the  black  rod,  de- 
siring the  immediate  attendance  of  the  House  of  Commons  in  the  House 

of 


JUNIUS.  17 

expel  him;  because  they  know  that  the  people,  in  order  to 
try  again  the  great  question  of  right,  or  to  thwart  an  odious 

of  Lords.  The  Speaker  then  went  up  to  the  House  of  Peers;  and  after  his 
return  and  report  of  what  had  passed, 

Mr.  Wilkes  said; 
"  Mr.  Speaker, 

"I  return  my  thanks  to  the  black  rod  for  so  luckily  interposing  in 
favour  of  this  house,  when  I  might  possibly  have  again  tired  them  with 
the  important,  however  stale,  case  of  the  Middlesex  election,  which  their 
patient  ear  has  for  several  years,  with  much  good  nature,  suffered.  I  will 
now  make  some  return  to  their  indulgence,  in  profiting  by  the  circum- 
stance of  this  happy  interruption,  and  not  saying  a  single  word  about  Wal- 
pole  or  Wollaston,  Coke  or  Blackatone.  I  will  not  detain  the  house  longer, 
than  by  observing  the  parliamentary  form  of  desiring  the  clerk  to  read 
the  resolution  of  the  17th  of  February,  1769."  Which  having  been  com- 
plied with,  he  then  moved,  "  That  the  entry  of  the  resolution  of  the  17th 
of  Feb.  1769,  '  That  John  Wilkes,  Esq.  having  been  in  this  session  of  par- 
liament  expelled  this  house,  was,  and  is,  incapable  of  being  elected  a 
member  to  serve  in  this  present  parliament,'  might  be  expunged  from 
their  journals,  it  being  subversive  of  the  rights  of  the  whole  body  of  the 
electors  of  this  kingdom  "  This  motion  was,  after  some  opposition  from 
the  late  Mr.  Fox,  then  Secretary  of  State,  and  from  the  late  Lord  Melville  r 
then  Lord  Advocate  for  Scotland,  the  former  of  whom  had  strenuously 
supported  the  whole  of  the  resolutions  passed  by  the  House  of  Commons, 
in  respect  to  the  Middlesex  election,  carried  on  a  division,  185  to  47.  Mr. 
Wilkes,  as  soon  as  this  question  was  disposed  of,  moved,  "  That  all  the 
declarations,  orders  and  resolutions  of  the  bouse,  respecting  his  election, 
for  the  county  of  Middlesex,  as  a  void  election,  the  due  and  legal  election 
of  Mr.  Luttrell  into  parliament  for  the  said  county,  and  his  own  incapa- 
city to  be  elected  a  member  to  serve  in  the  said  parliament,  be  expunged;" 
which  motion  was,  for  the  reasons  before  given,  carried  without  a  divi- 
sion. 

Thus  terminated  one  of  the  most  severe,  and  on  the  part  of  the  servants 
of  the  crown,  most  unconstitutional,  political  contests,  that  ever  agitated 
the  people  of  this  country;  not  leaving  a  rack  behind,  to  constitute,  as  our 
Author  emphatically  terras  it,  "  a  precedent  the  most  dangerous  that  ever 
was  established  against  those  who  are  to  come  after  us."  As  the  merit 
of  the  erasure  of  these  obnoxious  resolutions  from  the  journals  of  the 
House  of  Commons,  is  solely  due  to  the  talents  and  perseverance  of  Mr. 
Wdkes,  it  will  not  be  unfair  to  defend  his  motives  and  pretensions  as  a 
patriot,  from  the  detraction  of  contemporary  adversaries,  as  well  as  from 
his  more  modern  opponents.  The  first  political  offence  of  which  he  appears 
to  have  been  guilty,  was  the  severity  with  which  he  attacked  the  admi- 
nistration of  Lord  Bute,  and  which  was  justly  characterized  for  being  as 
deficient  in  ability,  as  it  was  odiously  unconstitutional.  For  tills  attack  a 

generifl 

Vol.  II.  C 


18  LETTERS  OF 

House  of  Commons,  would  probably  overlook  his  immediate 
unworthiness,  and  return  the  same  person  to  parliament.— 

general  warrant  was  issued,  his  papers  were  seized,  and  himself  commit- 
ted a  close  prisoner  to  the  Tower.  He  was  afterwards  prosecuted  for  the 
republication  of  the  North  Briton,  No.  45,  the  vehicle  of  his  political  lucu- 
brations, and  for  the  Essay  on  Woman,  which  had  been  surreptitiously 
atolen  from  him  by  a  man  of  the  name  of  Curry,  employed  in  printing  it 
at  his  private  press,  at  the  instigation  of,  and  under  the  promise  of  ample 
reward  and  protection  from  Philip  Carteret  Webb,  the  Solicitor  to  the 
Treasury.  Previous  to  the  trial,  Wilkes  fled  to  France,  where  he  remained 
for  some  years;  in  the  mean  time  he  had  been  found  guilty  in  the  King's 
Bench  of  printing  and  publishing  both  libels;  and  not  appearing  in  due 
time  to  receive  the  judgment  of  the  court,  he  was  outlawed.  On  the  dis- 
solution of  parliament  in  the  year  1768,  he  returned  to  this  country,  and 
was  elected  member  for  the  county  of  Middlesex.  In  the  meanwhile,  he 
surrendered  himself  to  the  King's  Bench,  and  having  claimed  the  benefit 
of  certain  errors  in  the  writ  of  outlawry,  the  same  were,  after  solemn  ar- 
gument, admitted  by  the  court,  and  the  outlawry  was  reversed.  A  few 
days  subsequent  to  this  determination,  Lord  Mansfield  pronounced  the 
judgment  of  the  court  on  him  for  publishing  the  libels;  for  the  former  he 
was  sentenced  to  pay  a  fine  of  500/.  to  the  King,  and  to  be  imprisoned  ten 
months;  and  for  the  latter,  he  was  fined  in  the  like  sum,  and  sentenced  to 
twelve  months  imprisonment;  and  was  further  ordered  to  find  security  for 
his  good  behaviour  for  seven  years,  himself  in  1000/.  and  two  sureties  in 
500/.  each.  His  expulsion  from  the  House  of  Commons,  and  the  conse- 
quences of  it,  are  the  subject  of  several  of  the  Letters  of  these  Volumes, 
as  W  ell  as  of  the  notes  which  have  been  added  to  them.  Not  long  previous 
to  his  release  from  prison,  he  was  elected  Alderman  of  Farringdon  With- 
out; shortly  afterwards  one  of  the  Sheriffs  of  London,  and  in  due  course 
Lord  Mayor;  and  on  the  death  of  Mr.  Hopkins,  Chamberlain.  At  a  sub- 
sequent period  of  Mr.  Wilkes's  life,  when  the  violence  of  the  politics 
which  had  raised  him  to  these  several  respectable  situations  had  altoge- 
ther subsided,  he  was  attacked,  more  than  once,  on  the  annual  election  of 
Chamberlain,  and  other  city  officers,  with  a  demand  of  the  previous  re- 
signation of  his  gown  as  an  alderman  of  London,  which  he  always  most 
resolutely  refused,  declaring  that  no  consideration  on  earth  should  induce 
him  to  forego  the  honour  which  he  felt  had  been  conferred  upon  him  by 
his  election  to  the  magistracy  of  the  City  of  London,  and  by  which  deter- 
mination he  ran  considerable  risk  of  losing  his  election  to  the  former  lu- 
crative situation;  an  instance  of  disinterestedness  not  often  to  be  met  with 
in  those  who  most  confidently  lay  claim  to  patriotism,  which  certainly 
places  his  character  in  a  higher  point  of  view  than  many  have  been  willing 
tu  allow  to  it.  and,  in  so  far  as  the  motives  which  actuated  his  political 
conduct  can  be  called  in  question,  adds  to  the  value  of  the  obligations  con- 
ferred upon  us,  by  his  able  and  successful  resistance  of  general  warrants, 
by  the  aid  and  assistance  afforded  the  printers  in  resisting  the  violence  of 

the 


JUNIUS.  19 

But,  in  time,  the  precedent  will  gain  strength.  A  future 
House  of  Commons  will  have  no  such  apprehensions,  con- 
sequently will  not  scruple  to  follow  a  precedent,  which  ihey 
did  not  establish.  The  miser  himself  seldom  lives  to  enjoy 
the  fruit  of  his  extortion;  but  his  heir  succeeds  to  him  of 
course,  and  takes  possession  without  censure.  No  man  ex- 
pects him  to  make  restitution,  and  no  matter  for  his  title,  he 
lives  quietly  upon  the  estate. 

PHILO  JUNIUS. 


LETTER  XLVII. 

TO  THI  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC  ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  25  May,  1771. 

I  confess  my  partiality  to  Junius,  and  feel  a  considera- 
ble pleasure  in  being  able  to  communicate  any  thing  to  the 
public,  in  support  of  his  opinions.  The  doctrine  laid  down 
in  his  last  letter,  concerning  the  power  of  the  House  of  Com- 
mons to  commit  for  contempt,  is  not  so  new  as  it  appeared 

the  House  of  Commons,  on  the  subject  of  reporting  their  debates,  and  by 
his  perseverance  in  vindicating  the  rights  of  the  electors  of  Great  Britain, 
in  procuring  the  erasure  from  the  journals  of  their  most  unconstitutional 
determination,  on  the  much  agitated  question  of  the  Middlesex  election. 
With  respect  to  the  private  character  of  Mr.  Wilkes  in  early  life,  the  wri- 
ter of  this  note  will  not  venture  to  make  any  defence,  though  he  trusts  to 
be  excused  if  he  quotes  the  apology  which  was  made  for  him  by  a  friend, 
in  the  year  1769.  "  As  to  his  private  foibles,  I  shall  only  add,  that  he  may 
apply  what  a  very  eccentric  genius  of  this  age  has  said  of  himself:  My 
own  passions,  and  the  passions  and  interests  of  other  people  still  more, 
have  led  me  aside.  I  launched  into  the  deep  before  I  had  loaded  ballast 
enough.  If  the  ship  did  not  sink,  the  cargo  was  thrown  overboard.  The 
storm  itself  threw  me  into  port"  Mr.  Wilkes,  after  he  lost  his  election 
for  the  County  of  Middlesex,  in  the  year  1790,  lived  in  considerable  retire- 
ment, and  much  respected.  His  literary  attainments  were  of  die  higher 
order,  and  as  apolitical  controversialist,  few  men  were  equal  to  him  Not 
many  years  before  his  death,  he  was  applied  to  by  the  late  Mr.  H.  S. 
Woodfall  to  write  some  explanatory  notes  for  a  new  edition  of  these  Let- 
ters, which  by  some  have  been  erroneously  attributed  to  his  pen,  but  de- 
clined it,  on  the  ground,  as  he  stated,  of  not  wishing  to  pay  a  second  visit 
to  the  prison  of  the  King's  Bench.  Mr.  Wilkes  died  Dec.  26,  1797,  in  the 
71st  year  of  his  age.  A  fac  simile  of  his  hand  writing  will  be  found  at  the 
beginning  of  one  of  the  volumes  of  this  work.  Edit. 


20  LETTERS  OF 

to  many  people,  who,  dazzled  with  the  name  of  privilege, 
had  never  suffered  themselves  to  examine  the  question  fairly. 
In  the  course  of  my  reading  this  morning,  I  met  with  the 
following  passage  in  the  journals  of  the  House  of  Commons. 
(Vol.  1st.  page  603.)  Upon  occasion  of  a  jurisdiction  unlaw- 
fully assumed  by  the  house  in  the  year  1621,  Mr.  Attorney 
General  Noye  gave  his  opinion  as  follows.  "  No  doubt  but, 
in  some  cases,  this  house  may  give  judgment; — in  matters 
of  returns,  and  concerning  members  of  our  house,  or  falling 
out  in  our  view  in  parliament;  but,  for  foreign  matters, 
knoweth  not  now  we  can  judge  it. — Knoweth  not  that  we 
have  been  used  to  give  judgment  in  any  case,  but  those  be- 
forementioned." 

Sir  Edward  Coke,  upon  the  same  subject,  says,  (page  604.) 
"  No  question  but  this  is  a  house  of  record,  and  that  it  hath 
power  of  judicature  in  some  cases — have  power  to  judge  of 
returns  and  members  of  our  house;  one,  no  member,  offend- 
ing out  of  the  parliament,  when  he  came  hither  and  justified 
ity  was  censured  for  it." 

Now,  Sir,  if  you  will  compare  the  opinion  of  these  great 
sages  of  the  law  with  Junius's  doctrine,  you  will  find  they 
tally  exactly. — He  allows  the  power  of  the  house  to  commit 
their  own  members;  (which  however  they  may  grossly 
abuse.)  He  allows  their  power  in  cases  where  they  are  act- 
ing as  a  court  of  judicature,  viz.  elections,  returns,  &c. — and 
he  allows  it  in  such  contempts  as  immediately  interrupt  their 
proceedings,  or,  as  Mr.  Noye  expresses  it,  falling  out  in 
their  vierv  in  parliament. 

They,  who  would  carry  the  privileges  of  parliament  far- 
ther than  Junius,  either  do  not  mean  well  to  the  public,  or 
know  not  what  they  are  doing.  The  government  of  England 
is  a  government  of  law.  We  betray  ourselves,  we  contradict 
the  spirit  of  our  laws,  and  we  shake  the  whole  system  of 
English  jurisprudence,  whenever  we  intrust  a  discretionary 
power  over  the  life,  liberty,  or  fortune  of  the  subject,  to  any 
man,  or  set  of  men,  whatsoever,  upon  a  presumption  that  it 
will  not  be  abused. 

PHILO  JUNIUS. 


JUNIUS.  21 


LETTER  XLVIII. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  28  May,  1771. 

AnY  man,  who  takes  the  trouble  of  perusing  the  journals 
of  the  House  of  Commons,  will  soon  be  convinced,  that  very 
little,  if  any  regard  at  all,  ought  to  be  paid  to  the  resolutions 
of  one  branch  of  the  legislature,  declaratory  of  the  law  of  the 
land,  or  even  of  what  they  call  the  law  of  parliament.  It  will 
appear  that  these  resolutions  have  no  one  of  the  properties, 
by  which,  in  this  country,  particularly,  law  is  distinguished 
from  mere  will  and  pleasure;  but  that,  on  the  contrary,  they 
bear  every  mark  of  a  power  arbitrarily  assumed  and  capri- 
ciously applied: — That  they  are  usually  made  in  times  of 
contest,  and  to  serve  some  unworthy  purpose  of  passion  or 
party; — that  the  law  is  seldom  declared  until  after  the  fact, 
by  which  it  is  supposed  to  be  violated; — that  legislation  and 
jurisdiction  are  united  in  the  same  persons,  and  exercised  at 
the  same  moment; — and  that  a  court  from  which  there  is  no 
appeal,  assumes  an  original  jurisdiction  in  a  criminal  case; 
—in  short,  Sir,  to  collect  a  thousand  absurdities  into  one 
mass,  "  we  have  a  law,  which  cannot  be  known  because  it  is 
ex  post  facto,  the  party  is  both  legislator  and  judge,  and  the 
jurisdiction  is  without  appeal."  Well  might  the  judges  say, 
The  law  of  parliament  is  above  us. 

You  will  not  wonder,  Sir,  that,  with  these  qualifications, 
the  declaratory  resolutions  of  the  House  of  Commons  should 
appear  to  be  in  perpetual  contradiction,  not  only  to  common 
sense  and  to  the  laws  we  are  acquainted  with,  (and  which 
alone  we  can  obey)  but  even  to  one  another.  I  was  led  to  trouble 
you  with  these  observations  by  a  passage,  which,  to  speak  in 
lutestring,  I  met  with  this  morning-  in  the  course  of  my  read- 
ing, and  upon  which  I  mean  to  put  a  question  to  the  advo- 
cates for  privilege. — On  the  8th  of  March,  1704,  (vide  Jour- 
nals, Vol.  14.  p.  565.)  the  House  thought  proper  to  come  to 
the  following  resolutions. — 1.  "  That  no  commoner  of  Eng- 
land, committed  by  the  House  of  Commons  for  breach  of 


22  LETTERS  OF 

privilege  or  contempt  of  that  house,  ought  to  be,  by  any 
writ  of  Habeas  Corpus,  made  to  appear  in  any  other  place,  or 
before  any  other  judicature,  during  that  session  of  parlia- 
ment, wherein  such  person  was  so  committed." 

2.  "  That  the  Serjeant  at  Arms,  attending  this  house  do 
make  no  return  of  or  yield  any  obedience  to  the  said  writs 
of  Habeas  Corpus,  and  for  such  his  refusal,  that  he  have  the 
protection  of  the  House  of  Commons*." 

Welbore  Ellis,  What  say  you?  Is  this  the  law  of  parlia- 
ment or  is  it  not?  I  am  a  plain  man,  Sir,  and  cannot  follow 
you  through  the  phlegmatic  forms  of  an  oration.  Speak  out, 
Grildrigf, — say  yes,  or  no. — If  you  say  yes,  I  shall  then  in- 
quire by  what  authority  Mr.  De  Grey,  the  honest  Lord 
Mansfield,  and  the  Barons  of  the  Exchequer,  dared  to  grant 
a  writ  of  Habeas  Corpus  for  bringing  the  bodies  of  the  Lord 
Mayor  and  Mr.  Oliver  before  them,  and  why  the  Lieuten- 
ant of  the  Tower  made  any  return  to  a  writ,  which  the  House 
of  Commons  had,  in  a  similar  instance,  declared  to  be  un- 
lawful.— If  you  say  no,  take  care  you  do  not  at  once  give  up 
the  cause,  in  support  of  which  you  have  so  long  and  so  labo- 
riously tortured  your  understanding.  Take  care  you  do  not 
confess  that  there  is  no  test  by  which  we  can  distinguish, — 
no  evidence  by  which  we  can  determine, — what  is,  and  what 
is  not  the  law  of  parliament.  The  resolutions  I  have  quoted 
stand  upon  your  journals,  uncontroverted  and  unrepealed;— 

*  If  there  be  in  reality  any  such  law  in  England,  as  the  law  of  parliament, 
which,  (under  the  exceptions  stated  in  my  letter  on  privilege)  I  confess, 
after  long  deliberation,  I  very  much  doubt,  it  certainly  is  not  constituted 
by,  nor  can  it  be  collected  from  the  resolutions  of  either  house,  whether 
enacting  or  declaratory.  I  desire  the  reader  will  compare  the  above  resolu- 
tion of  the  year  1704,  with  the  following  of  the  3d  of  April,  1628.— "Re- 
solved, That  the  writ  of  Habeas  Corpus  cannot  be  denied,  but  ought  to  be 
granted  to  every  man,  that  is  committed  or  detained  in  prison,  or  other- 
wise restrained,  by  the  command  of  the  King,  the  Privy  Council,  or  any 
other,  he  praying  the  same." 

■f-  The  diminutive  stature  of  Mr.  Welbore  Ellis,  afterwards  Lord  Men- 
dip,  hence  in  another  place  called,  by  our  author,  little  mannikin  Ellis,  has 
been  already  noticed  in  the  note  in  p.  232  of  Vol.  I.  The  term  Grildrig 
preserves  the  same  idea,. this  being  the  name  bestowed  on  Gulliver  by  the 
gigantic  inhabitants  of  Brobdignag.  Edit. 


JUNIUS.  23 

they  contain  a  declaration  of  the  law  of  parliament  by  a  court, 
competent  to  the  question,  and  whose  decision,  as  you  and 
Lord  Mansfield  say,  must  be  law,  because  there  is  no  appeal 
from  it,  and  they  were  made,  not  hastily,  but  after  long  de- 
liberation upon  a  constitutional  question. — What  farther 
sanction  or  solemnity  will  you  annex  to  any  resolution  of  the 
present  House  of  Commons,  beyond  what  appears  upon  the 
face  of  those  two  resolutions,  the  legality  of  which  you  now 
deny.  If  you  say  that  parliaments  are  not  infallible,  and  that 
Queen  Anne,  in  consequence  of  the  violent  proceedings  of 
that  House  of  Commons,  was  obliged  to  prorogue  and  dis- 
solve them,  I  shall  agree  with  you  very  heartily,  and  think 
that  the  precedent  ought  to  be  followed  immediately.  But 
you,  Mr.  Ellis,  who  hold  this  language,  are  inconsistent  with 
your  own  principles.  You  have  hitherto  maintained  that  the 
House  of  Commons  are  the  sole  judges  of  their  own  privi- 
leges, and  that  their  declaration  does,  ipso  facto,  constitute 
the  law  of  parliament;  yet  now  you  confess  that  parliaments 
are  fallible,  and  that  their  resolutions  may  be  illegal,  conse- 
quently that  their  resolutions  do  not  constitute  the  law  of 
parliament.  When  the  King  was  urged  to  dissolve  the  pre- 
sent parliament,  you  advised  him  to  tell  his  subjects,  that  he 
was  careful  not  to  assume  any  of  those  powers,  xvhich  the  con- 
stitution had  placed  in  other  hands,  &c.  Yet  Queen  Anne,  it 
seems,  was  justified  in  exerting  her  prerogative  to  stop  a 
House  of  Commons,  whose  proceedings,  compared  with 
those  of  the  assembly,  of  which  you  are  a  most  worthy  mem- 
ber, were  the  perfection  of  justice  and  reason. 

In  what  a  labyrinth  of  nonsense  does  a  man  involve  him- 
self who  labours  to  maintain  falsehood  by  argument?  How 
much  better  would  it  become  the  dignity  of  the  House  of 
Commons  to  speak  plainly  to  the  people,  and  tell  us  at  once, 
that  their  will  must  be  obeyed,  not  because  it  is  lawful  and 
reasonable,  but  because  it  is  their  xvill.  Their  constituents 
would  have  a  better  opinion  of  their  candour,  and,  I  promise 
you,  not  a  worse  opinion  of  their  integrity. 

PHILO  JUNIUS. 


24  LETTERS  OF 


LETTER  XLIX. 

TO   HIS  GRACE  THE  DUKE  OF  GRAFTON*. 
My  Lord,  22 June,  1771. 

The  profound  respect  I  bear  to  the  gracious  Prince,  who 
governs  this  country  with  no  less  honour  to  himself  than 
satisfaction  to  his  subjects,  and  who  restores  you  to  your 
rank  under  his  standard,  will  save  you  from  a  multitude  of 
reproaches.  The  attention  I  should  have  paid  to  your  failings 
is  involuntarily  attracted  to  the  hand  that  rewards  them; 
and  though  I  am  not  so  partial  to  the  royal  judgment,  as  to 
affirm,  that  the  favour  of  a  King  can  remove  mountains  of 
infamy,  it  serves  to  lessen  at  least,  for  undoubtedly  it  divides 
the  burthen.  While  I  remember  how  much  is  due  to  his  sa- 
cred character,  I  cannot,  with  any  decent  appearance  of  pro- 
priety, call  you  the  meanest  and  the  basest  fellow  in  the 
kingdom.  I  protest,  my  Lord,  I  do  not  think  you  so.  You 
will  have  a  dangerous  rival,  in  that  kind  of  fame  to  which 
you  have  hitherto  so  happily  directed  your  ambition,  as  long 
as  there  is  one  man  living,  who  thinks  you  worthy  of  his 
confidence,  and  fit  to  be  trusted  with  any  share  in  his  govern- 
ment. I  confess  you  have  great  intrinsic  merit;  but  take  care 
you  do  not  value  it  too  highly.  Consider  how  much  of  it 
would  have  been  lost  to  the  world,  if  the  King  had  not  gra- 
ciously affixed  his  stamp,  and  given  it  currency  among  his 
subjects.  If  it  be  true  that  a  virtuous  man,  struggling  with 
adversity,  be  a  scene  worthy  of  the  gods,  the  glorious  con- 
tention, between  you  and  the  best  of  Princes,  deserves  a  cir- 
cle, equally  attentive  and  respectable.  I  think  I  already  see 
other  gods  rising  from  the  earth  to  behold  it. 

But  this  language  is  too  mild  for  the  occasion.  The  King 
is  determined,  that  our  abilities  shall  not  be  lost  to  society. 

*  The  author,  in  Private  Note,  No.  35.  speaking  of  this  letter,  says,  "  I 
am  strangely  partial  to  the  inclosed.  It  is  finished  with  the  utmost  care. 
If  I  eid  myself  mistaken  in  my  judgment  of  this  paper,  I  positively  will 
never  write  again."  The  reader  will  doubtless  give  the  writer  full  credit 
for  the  correctness  of  his  opinion  in  the  present  instance.  Edit. 


JUNIUS.  25 

The  perpetration  and  description  of  new  crimes  will  find 
employment  for  us  both.  My  Lord,  if  the  persons,  who  have 
been  loudest  in  their  professions  of  patriotism,  had  done 
their  duty  to  the  public  with  the  same  zeal  and  perseverance 
that  I  did,  I  will  not  assert  that  government  would  have  re- 
covered its  dignity,  but  at  least  our  gracious  Sovereign  must 
have  spared  his  subjectsthis  last  insult*,  which,  if  there  be 
any  feeling  left  among  us,  they  will  resent  more  than  even 
the  real  injuries  they  received  from  every  measure  of  your 
Grace's  administration.  In  vain  would  he  have  looked  round 
him  for  another  character  so  consummate  as  yours.  Lord 
Mansfield  shrinks  from  his  principles!; — his  ideas  of  go- 
vernment perhaps  go  farther  than  your  own,  but  his  heart 
disgraces  the  theory  of  his  understanding. — Charles  Fox  is 
yet  in  blossom;  and  as  for  Mr.  Wedderburne,  there  is  some- 
thing about  him,  which  even  treachery  cannot  trust.  For  the 
present  therefore,  the  best  of  Princes  must  have  contented 
himself  with  Lord  Sandwich. — You  would  long  since  have 
received  your  final  dismission  and  reward;  and  I,  my  Lord, 
who  do  not  esteem  you  the  more  for  the  high  office  you  pos- 
sess, would  willingly  have  followed  you  to  your  retirement. 
There  is  surely  something  singularly  benevolent  in  the  cha- 
racter of  our  Sovereign.  From  the  moment  he  ascended  the 
throne,  there  is  no  crime,  of  which  human  nature  is  capable, 

*  The  Duke  was  lately  appointed  Lord  Privy  Seal.  Author. 

He  succeeded  Lord  Suffolk  who  had  just  taken  possession  of  the  post 
of  the  home  department,  upon  the  death  of  the  Earl  of  Halifax.  Edit. 

■j"  He  refers  to  Lord  Mansfield's  call  of  the  house  upon  the  subject  of 
the  opinion  of  the  judges,  in  consequence  of  the  verdict  of  the  jury  upon 
Woodfall's  trial — which  embraced  the  question  whether  juries  were 
judges  of  the  fact  alone,  or  of  the  law  conjunctively.  An  important  mo- 
tion was  expected,  but  his  Lordship,  as  our  author  states  it,  shrunk  from 
the  principles  he  had  advanced,  and  merely  informed  the  house  that  he 
had  left  a  paper  with  their  clerk,  containing  the  unanimous  judgment  of 
the  court  of  King's  Bench  upon  the  verdict  in  question,  and  the  doctrine 
it  necessarily  embraced;  and  that  their  Lordships  were  welcome  to  copies 
of  it  if  they  chose. 

See  the  whole  detailed  together,  with  Lord  Camden's  counter  paper  in 
Editor's  note,  Vol.  I.  p.  10.  See  aLo  Miscellaneous  Letterf,  No.  lxxxii 
—Edit. 

Vol.  II.  D 


vo-  LETTERS  OF 

(and  I  call  upon  the  Recorder*  to  witness  it)  that  has  not 
appeared  venial  in  his  sightf.  With  any  other  Prince,  the 
shameful  desertion  of  him,  in  the  midst  of  that  distress, 
which  you  alone  had  created, — in  the  very  crisis  of  danger, 
when  he  fancied  he  saw  the  throne  already  surrounded  by 
men  of  virtue  and  abilities,  would  have  outweighed  the  me- 
mory of  your  former  services.  But  his  Majesty  is  full  of 
justice,  and  understands  the  doctrine  of  compensations.  He 
remembers  with  gratitude  how  soon  you  had  accommodated 
your  morals  to  the  necessities  of  his  service; — how  cheer- 
fully you  had  abandoned  the  engagements  of  private  friend- 
ship, and  renounced  the  most  solemn  professions  to  the  pub- 
lic. The  sacrifice  of  Lord  Chatham  was  not  lost  upon  him. 
Even  the  cowardice  and  perfidy  of  deserting  him  may  have 
done  you  no  disservice  in  his  esteem.  The  instance  was 
painful,  but  the  principle  might  please. 

You  did  not  neglect  the  magistrate,  while  you  flattered  the 
man.  The  expulsion  of  Mr.  Wilkes  predetermined  in  the  ca- 
binet;— the  power  of  depriving  the  subject  of  his  birthright, 
attributed  to  a  resolution  of  one  branch  of  the  legislature; — 
the  constitution  impudently  invaded  by  the  House  of  Com- 
mons;— the  right  of  defending  it  treacherously  renounced 
by  the  House  of  Lords:):: — These  are  the  strokes,  my  Lord, 
which,  in  the  present  reign,  recommend  to  office,  and  consti- 
tute a  minister.  They  would  have  determined  your  Sove- 
reign's judgment,  if  they  had  made  no  impression  upon  his 
heart.  We  need  not  look  for  any  other  species  of  merit  to 
account  for  his  taking  the  earliest  opportunity  to  recall  you 
to  his  councils.  Yet  you  have  other  merit  in  abundance. — 
Mr.  Hme, — the  Duke  of  Portland, — and  Mr.  Yorke. — 
Breach  of  trust,  robbery,  and  murder^.  You  would  think  it 

*  The  late  Chief  Justice  Eyre  was,  at  this  time,  Recorder  of  London. — 
Edit. 

I  The  author  here  more  particularly  alludes  to  *.he  pardon  of  M'Quirk 
and  the  Kennedys.  See  Letter  viii.  Vol.  I.  p.  68.  and  note,  p.  70. — 
— Edit. 

}  See  pages  239  et  seq.  of  vol.  I- 

§  These  points  have  all  heen  noticed  before — they  relate  to  Hine's  pa- 
'ent  place;  Ingle  wood  forest,  &.c.  in  Cumberland,  granted  to  Sir  James 

Lowth<  ■ 


JUNIUS.  27 

a  compliment  to  your  gallantry,  if  I  added  rape  to  the  cata- 
logue;— but  the  stile  of  jour  amours  secures  you  from  resist- 
ance. I  know  how  well  these  several  charges  have  been 
defended.  In  the  first  instance,  the  breach  of  trust  is  sup- 
posed to  have  been  its  own  reward.  Mr.  Bradshaw  affirms 
upon  his  honour,  (and  so  may  the  gift  of  smiling  never  depart 
from  him!)  that  you  reserved  no  part  of  Mr.  Hine's  pur- 
chase-money for  your  own  use,  but  that  every  shilling  of  it 
was  scrupulously  paid  to  governor  Burgoyne. — Make  haste, 
my  Lord, — another  patent,  applied  in  time,  may  keep  the 
Oaks*  in  the  family. — If  not,  Birnham  Wood,  I  fear,  must 
come  to  the  Macaroni]. 

The  Duke  of  Portland  was  in  life  your  earliest  friend.  In 
defence  of  his  property  he  had  nothing  to  plead,  but  equity 
against  Sir  James  Lowther,  and  prescription  against  the 
crown:}:.  You  felt  for  your  friend;  but  the  laxv  must  take  its 
course.  Posterity  will  scarce  believe  that  Lord  Bute's  son- 
in-law  had  barely  interest  enough  at  the  treasury  to  get  his 
grant  completed  before  the  general  election^. 

Enough  has  been  said  of  that  detestable  transaction,  which 
ended  in  the  death  of  Mr.  Yorke, — I  cannot  speak  of  it 
without  horror  and  compassion.  To  excuse  yourself,  you 
publicly  impeach  your  accomplice,  and  to  his  mind  perhaps 
the  accusation  may  be  flattery.  But  in  murder  you  are  both 
principals.  It  was  once  a  question  of  emulation,  and  if  the 
event  had  not  disappointed  the  immediate  schemes  of  the 
closet,  it  might  still  have  been  a  hopeful  subject  of  jest  and 
merriment  between  you. 

Lowther  by  the  crown,  although  it  had  been  in  possession  of  the  Duke  of 
Portland's  family  for  seventy  years; — and  the  suicide  of  Charles  Yorke, 
the  lord  chancellor,  who  shot  himself  from  political  chagrin,  immediately 
after  his  appointment.  Edit. 

*   A  superb  villa  of  Col.  Burgoyne,  about  this  time  advertised  for  sale. 

•J-  The  father  of  the  present  Mr.  Christie,  who  was  the  auctioneer  em 
ployed  to  sell  the  estate.  Edit. 

+  Sir  James  Lowther  was  son-in-law  to  Lord  Bute  by  the  marriage  of 
one  of  his  daughters.  Edit. 

$  It  will  appear  by  a  subsequent  letter,  that  -he  Duke's  precipitation, 
proved  fatal  to  the  grant.  It  looks  like  the  hurry  and  confusion  of  a  young 
highwayman,  who  takes  a  few  shillings,  but  leaves  the  purse  and  watch 
behind  him. — And  vet  the  Duke  was  an  old  offender! 


28  LETTERS  Oi 

This  letter,  my  Lord,  is  only  a  preface  to  toy  future  cor* 
respondence.  The  remainder  of  the  summer  shall  be  dedi- 
cated to  your  amusement.  I  mean  now  and  then  to  relieve 
the  severity  of  your  morning  studies,  and  to  prepare  you  for 
the  business  of  the  day.  Without  pretending  to  more  than 
Mr.  Bradshaw's  sincerity,  you  may  rely  upon  my  attachment 
as  long  as  you  are  in  office. 

Will  your  Grace  forgive  me,  if  I  venture  to  express  some 
anxiety  for  a  man,  whom  I  know  you  do  not  love?  My  Lord 
Weymouth  has  cowardice  to  plead,  and  a  desertion  of  a  later 
date  than  your  own.  You  know  the  privy  seal  was  intended 
for  him;  and  if  you  consider  the  dignity  of  the  post  he  de- 
serted, you  will  hardly  think  it  decent  to  quarter  him  on 
Mr.  Rigby.  Yet  he  must  have  bread,  my  Lord; — or  rather 
he  must  have  wine*.  If  you  deny  him  the  cup,  there  will  be 
no  keeping  him  within  the  pale  of  the  ministry. 

JUNIUS. 


LETTER  L. 

TO  HIS  GRACE  THE  DUKE  OF  GRAFTON. 

My  Lord,  9  July,  1771. 

The  influence  of  your  Grace's  fortune  still  seems  to  pre- 
side over  the  treasury. — The  genius  of  Mr.  Bradshaw  in- 
spires Mr.  Robinsonf.  How  remarkable  it  is,  (and  I  speak 
of  it  not  as  matter  of  reproach,  but  as  something  peculiar 
to  your  character)  that  you  have  never  yet  formed  a  friend- 
ship, which  has  not  been  fatal  to  the  object  of  it,  nor  adopted 

*  Lord  Weymouth,  upon  deserting  the  ministry,  was  succeeded  in  the 
foreign  department  by  the  Earl  of  Rochford.  The  former  nobleman  re- 
signed Dec.  19,  1770,  and  the  Duke  of  Grafton  on  the  preceding  23th  of 
January.  Lord  VV — 'a  attachment  to  the  bottle  furnishes  the  ground  for 
the  imagery  with  which  the  letter  concludes.  Edit. 

f  By  an  intercepted  letter  from  the  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  it  ap- 
peared, that  t .he  friends  cj  government  were  to  be  venj  active  in  supporting 
the  ministerial  nomination  of  sheriffs.     Author. 

Robinson  was  now  treasury  secretary,  and  filled  the  same  post  of  confi- 
dential agent  to  Lord  North.,  that  Bradshaw  had  before  filled  to  the  Duke 
of  Grafton.  Edit. 


JUNIUS.  29 

a  cause,  to  which,  one  way  or  other,  you  have  not  done 
mischief.  Your  attachment  is  infamy  while  it  lasts,  and 
which  ever  way  it  turns,  leaves  ruin  and  disgrace  behind  it. 
The  deluded  girl,  who  yields  to  such  a  profligate,  even 
while  he  is  constant,  forfeits  her  reputation  as  well  as  her 
innocence,  and  finds  herself  abandoned  at  last  to  misery  and 

shame. Thus  it  happened  with  the  best  of  Princes.  Poor 

Dingley  too*! — I  protest  I  hardly  know  which  of  them  we 
ought  most  to  lament; — The  unhappy  man  who  sinks  under 
the  sense  of  his  dishonour,  or  him  who  survives  it.  Charac- 
ters, so  finished,  are  placed  beyond  the  reach  of  panegyric. 
Death  has  fixed  his  seal  upon  Dingley,  and  you,  my  Lord, 
have  set  your  mark  upon  the  other. 

The  only  letter  I  ever  addressed  to  the  King,  was  so  un- 
kindly received,  that  I  believe  I  shall  never  presume  to  trou- 
ble his  Majesty,  in  that  way,  again.  But  my  zeal  for  his 
service  is  superior  to  neglect,  and  like   Mr.  Wilkes's  pa- 
triotism, thrives  by  persecution.  Yet  his  Majesty  is  much 
addicted  to  useful  reading,  and,  if  I  am  not  ill-informed,  has 
honoured  the  Public  Advertiser  with  particular  attention.  I 
have  endeavoured  therefore,  and  not  without  success,  (as 
perhaps  you  may  remember)  to  furnish  it  with  such  interest- 
ing and  edifying  intelligence,  as  probably  would  not  reach 
him  through  any  other  channel.    The  services  you  have 
done  the  nation, — your  integrity  in  office,  and  signal  fidelity 
to  your  approved  good  master,  have  been  faithfully  recorded. 
Nor  have  his  own  virtues  been  entirely  neglected.  These 
letters,  my  Lord,  are  read  in  other  countries  and  in  other  lan- 
guages; and  I  think  I  may  affirm  without  vanity,  that  the 
gracious  character  of  the  best  of  Princes  is  by  this  time  not 
only  perfectly  known  to  his  subjects,  but  tolerably  well  un- 
derstood by  the  rest  of  Europe.  In  this  respect  alone,  I  have 
the  advantage  of  Mr.  Whiteheadf.  His  plan,  I  think,  is  toe 

*  Dingley  was  now  just  dead:  and  our  author  insinuates  that  he  died  of 
a  broken  heart  in  consequence  of  having  been  so  contemptuously  treated 
at  the  preceding  election  for  Middlesex;  in  which,  as  already  observed, 
Vol.  I.  p.  74,  he  had  offered  himself  a  candidate  at  the  request  of  the 
Duke  of  Grafton,  but  could  not  obtain  even  a  nomination.  Edit. 

J  Poet-Laureat  of  the  dav.  Edit 


30  LETTERS  OF 

narrow.  He  seems  to  manufacture  his  verses  for  the  sole 
use  of  the  hero,  who  is  supposed  to  be  the  subject  of  them, 
and,  that  his  meaning  may  not  be  exported  in  foreign  bot- 
toms, sets  all  translation  at  defiance. 

Your  Grace's  re-appointment  to  a  seat  in  the  cabinet  was 
announced  to  the  public  by  the  ominous  return  of  Lord 
Bute  to  this  country*.  When  that  noxious  planet  approaches 
England,  he  never  fails  to  bring  plague  and  pestilence  along 
with  him.  The  King  already  feels  the  malignant  effect  of 
your  influence  over  his  councils.  Your  former  administra- 
tion made  Mr.  Wilkes  an  Alderman  of  London,  and  Re- 
presentative of  Middlesex.  Your  next  appearance  in  office 
is  marked  with  his  election  to  the  shrievalty.  In  whatever 
measure  you  are  concerned,  you  are  not  only  disappointed 
of  success,  but  always  contrive  to  make  the  government  of 
the  best  of  Princes  contemptible  in  his  own  eves,  and  ridi- 
culous to  the  whole  world.  Making  all  due  allowance  for 
the  effect  of  the  minister's  declared  interposition,  Mr.  Ro- 
binson's activity!,  and  Mr.  Home's  new  zeal  in  support  of 

*  From  the  continent,  over  a  part  of  which  he  had  been  for  some  time 
travelling.  Edit. 

f  Jukivs  was  charged  by  the  writers  of  the  day,  as  well  as  by  a  more 
.•ecent  opponent,  with  having  "  debased  his  pretensions  to  greatness  by 
engaging  unsuccessfully  in  city  politics."  He  however,  does  not  appear  to 
have  been  the  only  unsuccessful  politician  who  had  plunged  into  the  mire 
of  metropolitan  politics,  as  the  following  letter  from  that  celebrated  cha- 
racter Jack  Robinson,  will  evince.  It  was  written  during  the  election  of 
sheriffs  of  London,  and  is  that  alluded  to  in  the  note  p.  28. 

"  Mr.  Robinson  presents  his  compliments  to  Mr.  Smith.  Mr.  Harley 
meets  his  ward  publicly  to  day,  to  support  Aldermen  Plumbe  and  Kirk- 
itiw.  The  friends  of  government  will  be  very  active,  and  it  is  earnestly 
desired  that  you  will  exert  yourself  to  the  utmost  of  your  power  to  sup- 
port those  aldermen.  It  is  thought  it  will  be  very  advantageous  to  push  the 
poll  to  day  with  as  many  friends  as  possible,  therefore  it  is  desired  that 
ou  wiil  pursue  that  conduct.   Mr.  Harley  will  be  early  in  the  city  to  day, 
and  to  be  heard  of  at  his  counting-house  in  Bridge-yard,  Bucklcrsbury. 
if  you,  or  such  person  as  you  intrust  in  this  matter,  could  see  him  to 
consult  thereon,  it  might  be  beneficial  to  the  cause. 
"Tuesday  Morning, 26th  Jun".  1771;  six  o'clock. 

"T<>  Benj.  Smith,  Esq." 
Robin  This 


JUNIUS.  flj, 

administration*,  we  still  want  the  genius  of  the  Duke  of 
Grafton  to  account  for  committing  the  whole  interest  of  go- 
verning k  in  the  city,  to  the  conduct  of  Mr.  Harley.  I  will 
not  bear  hard  upon  your  faithful  friend  and  emissary  Mr. 
Touchet,  for  I  know  the  difficulties  of  his  situation,  and 
that  a  few  lottery  tickets  are  of  use  to  his  economy.  There 
is  a  proverb  concerning  persons  in  the  predicament  of  this 
gentleman,  which  however  cannot  be  strictly  applied  to  him. 
They  commence  dupes,  and  finish  knaves.  Now  Mr.  Touch- 
et's  character  is  uniform.  I  am  convinced  that  his  senti- 
ments never  depended  upon  his  circumstances,  and  that,  in 
the  most  prosperous  state  of  his  fortune,  he  was  always  the 
very  man  he  is  at  present. — But  was  there  no  other  person 
of  rank  and  consequence  in  the  city,  whom  government 
could  confide  in,  but  a  notorious  Jacobite?  Did  you  imagine 
that  the  whole  body  of  the   Dissentersf,    that  the  whole 

This  letter,  intended  for  Mr.  Benjamin  Smith,  the  partner  of  Mr.  Alder- 
man Nash,  of  Cannon-street,  was,  through  the  mistake  of  the  messenger, 
delivered  to  Mr.  Smith  of  Budge-row,  who  published  it,  together  with  an 
affidavit  as  to  its  verity,  which  had  such  an  effect  on  the  election,  that 
Mr.  Bull,  who  at  the  time  was  fourth  on  the  poll,  was  ultimately  returned 
as  one  of  the  sheriffs  of  London,  in  conjunction  with  Mr.  Wilkes,  another 
of  the  candidates  for  that  important  office.     Edit. 

*  Home  had  long  zealously  fought  on  the  side  of  the  staunchest  Whigs, 
and  was  an  active  member  of  the  society  for  the  support  of  the  Bill  of 
Rights  which  had  just  discharged  Wilkes's  debts.  Alderman  Oliver,  who 
bad  also  been  as  zealous  an  advocate  on  the  same  side,  and  had  suffered 
himself  to  be  committed  with  the  Lord  Mayor  to  the  Tower,  in  support 
of  his  principles,  for  some  reason  or  other  became  at  this  time  jealous  of 
the  popularity  of  Wilkes,  affected  to  rival  him,  and  refused  to  serve  in  the 
Qffice  of  sheriff",  if  Wilkes  were  allowed  to  be  his  colleague.  Home  joined 
with  Townshend,  and  the  society  for  the  support  of  the  Bill  of  Rights  be- 
came divided  into  two  grand  parties. 

Wilkes  united  with  Alderman  Bull  in  proposing  himself  for  the  shrie- 
valty, and  in  the  contest  that  ensued  between  them  with  Oliver,  Kirkman 
and  Plumbe,  obtained  a  large  majority  both  for  himself  and  his  colleague, 
leaving  Oliver,  though  supported  by  all  the  efforts  of  Home,  the  lowest 
on  the  poll. 

It  was  in  consequence  of  the  conduct  thus  pursued  by  Home,  and  which 
was  fatal  to  the  popular  cause,  that  Junius  chose  to  represent  him  as 
bribed  by  the  ministry.     Edit. 

f  The  family  of  the  Harleys  were  originally  dissenters,  and  the  allusion 
is  to  this  fact.  Edit. 


^  LETTERS  OF 

Whig-interest  of  London  would  attend  at  the  levee,  and 
submit  to  the  directions  of  a  notorious  Jacobite?  Was  there 
no  Whig  magistrate  in  the  city,  to  whom  the  servants  of 
George  the  third  could  intrust  the  management  of  a  busi- 
ness, so  very  interesting  to  their  master  as  the  election  of 
sheriffs?  Is  there  no  room  at  St.  James's  but  for  Scotchmen 
and  Jacobites?  My  Lord,  I  do  not  mean  to  question  the  sin- 
cerity of  Mr.  Harley's  attachment  to  his  Majesty's  govern- 
ment. Since  the  commencement  of  the  present  reign,  I  have 
seen  still  greater  contradictions  reconciled.  The  principles 
of  these  worthy  Jacobites,  are  not  so  absurd  as  they  have 
been  represented.  Their  ideas  of  divine  right  are  not  so  much 
annexed  to  the  person  or  family,  as  to  the  political  character 
of  the  Sovereign.  Had  there  ever  been  an  honest  man  among 
the  Stuarts,  his  Majesty's  present  friends  would  have  been 
Whigs  upon  principle.  But  the  conversion  of  the  best  ot 
Princes  has  removed  their  scruples.  They  have  forgiven 
him  the  sins  of  his  Hanoverian  ancestors,  and  acknowledge 
the  hand  of  Providence  in  the  descent  of  the  crown  upon  the 
head  of  a  true  Stuart.  In  you,  my  Lord,  they  also  behold, 
with  a  kind  of  predilection,  which  borders  upon  loyalty,  the 
natural  representative  of  that  illustrious  family.  The  mode 
of  your  descent  from  Charles  the  second  is  only  a  bar  to  your 
pretensions  to  the  crown,  and  no  way  interrupts  the  regularity 
of  your  succession  to  all  the  virtues  of  the  Stuarts. 

The  unfortunate  success  of  the  reverend  Mr.  Home's 
endeavours,  in  support  of  the  ministerial  nomination  of 
sheriffs,  will  I  fear  obstruct  his  preferment.  Permit  me  to 
recommend  him  to  your  Grace's  protection.  You  will  find 
him  copiously  gifted  with  those  qualities  of  the  heart,  which 
usually  direct  you  in  the  choice  of  your  friendships.  He  too 
was  Mr.  Wilkes's  friend,  and  as  incapable  as  you  are  of  the 
liberal  resentment  of  a  gentleman.  No,  my  Lord, — it  was 
the  solitary,  vindictive  malice  of  a  monk,  brooding  over  the 
infirmities  of  his  friend,  until  he  thought  they  quickened 
into  public  life;  and  feasting  with  a  rancorous  rapture,  upon 
the  sordid  catalogue  of  his  distresses*.  Now,  let  him  go  bad" 

*  See  Editor's  note  to  Letter  Lit.    Edit. 


JUNIUS.  33 

to  his  cloister.  The  church  is  a  proper  retreat  for  him.  In 
his  principles  he  is  already  a  Bishop. 

The  mention  of  this  man  has  moved  me  from  my  natural 
moderation.  Let  me  return  to  your  Grace.  You  are  the  pil- 
low, upon  which  I  am  determined  to  rest  all  my  resentments. 
What  idea  can  the  best  of  Sovereigns  form  to  himself  of  his 
own  government? — in  what  repute  can  he  conceive  that  he 
stands  with  his  people,  when  he  sees,  beyond  the  possibility 
of  a  doubt,  that,  whatever  be  the  office,  the  suspicion  of  his 
favour  is  fatal  to  the  candidate,  and  that,  when  the  party 
he  wishes  well  to  his  the  fairest  prospect  of  success,  if  his 
royal  inclination  should  unfortunately  be  discovered,  it  drops 
like  an  acid,  and  turns  the  election.  This  event,  among 
others,  may  perhaps  contribute  to  open  his  Majesty's  eyes 
to  his  real  honour  and  interest.  In  spite  of  all  your  Grace's 
ingenuity,  he  may  at  last  perceive  the  inconvenience  of  se- 
lecting, with  such  a  curious  felicity,  every  villain  in  the  nation 
to  fill  the  various  departments  of  his  government.  Yet  I 
should  be  sorry  to  confine  him  in  the  choice  either  of  his 
footmen  or  his  friends. 

JUNIUS. 


LETTER  LI. 

FROM  THE  REVEREND  MR.  HORNE  TO  JUNIUS. 

Sir,  13  July,  1771. 

Farce,  Comedy,  and  Tragedy, — Wilkes,  Foote,  and  y«= 
nius*,  united  at  the  same  time,  aga  nst  one  poor  Parson,  are 
fearful  odds.  The  two  former  are  only  labouring  in  their 
vocation,  and  may  equally  plead  in  excuse,  that  their  aim  is 
a  livelihood.  I  admit  the  plea  for  the  second;  his  is  an  honest 
calling,  and  my  clothes  were  lawful  game-,  but  I  cannot  so 
readily  approve  Mr.  Wilkes,  or  commend  him  for  making 

*  Foote,  availing  himself  of  the  growing  unpopularity  of  Mr.  Home  at 
the  present  moment,  had  ventured  t  caricature  him  on  the  stage.  While 
therefore  Mr.  Home  pretends  to  tremble  beneath  the  comic  efforts  of  Foote 
and  the  tragic  efforts  of  Junius,  he  still  wishes  the  world  to  regard 
Wilkes's  opposition  to  him  as  a  mere  farce.    EriT. 

Vol.  II.  E 


J4  LETTERS  OF 

patriotism  a  trade,  and  a  fraudulent  trade.  But  what  shall  I 
say  to  Junius?  the  grave,  the  solemn,  the  didactic!  ridicule, 
indeed,  has  been  ridiculously  called  the  test  of  truth;  but 
surely  to  confess  that  you  lose  your  natural  moderation  when 
mention  is  made  of  the  man,  does  not  promise  much  truth 
or  justice  when  you  speak  of  him  yourself. 

You  charge  me  with  "  a  new  zeal  in  support  of  adminis- 
tration," and  with  "  endeavours  in  support  of  the  ministerial 
nomination  of  Sheriffs."  The  reputation  which  your  talents 
have  deservedly  gained  to  the  signature  of  Junius,  draws 
from  me  a  reply,  which  I  disdained  to  give  to  the  anonymous 
lies  of  Mr.  Wilkes.  You  make  frequent  use  of  the  word 
Genikman-,  I  only  call  myself  a  Man,  and  desire  no  other 
distinction:  if  you  are  either,  you  are  bound  to  make  good 
your  charges,  or  to  confess  that  you  have  done  me  a  hasty 
injustice  upon  no  authority. 

I  put  the  matter  fairly  to  issue. — I  say,  that  so  far  from 
any  new  "  zeal  in  support  of  administration,"  I  am  possessed 
with  the  utmost  abhorrence  of  their  measures:  and  that  I 
have  ever  shewn  myself,  and  am  still  ready,  in  any  rational 
manner,  to  lay  down  all  I  have — my  life,  in  opposition  to 
those  measures.  I  say,  that  I  have  not,  and  never  have  had 
any  communication  or  connexion  of  any  kind,  directly  or 
indirectly,  with  any  courtier  or  ministerial  man,  or  any  of 
their  adherents:  that  I  never  have  received,  or  solicited,  or 
expected,  or  desired,  or  do  now  hope  for,  any  reward  of  any 
sort,  from  any  party  or  set  of  men  in  administration  or  oppo- 
sition; I  say,  that  I  never  used  any  "  endeavours  in  support 
of  the  ministerial  nomination  of  Sheriffs."  That  I  did  not 
solicit  any  one  liveryman  for  his  vote  for  any  one  of  the  can- 
didates; nor  employ  any  other  person  to  solicit:  and  that  I 
did  not  write  one  single  line  or  word  in  favour  of  Messrs. 
Plumbe  and  Kirkman*,  whom  I  understand  to  have  been 
supported  by  the  ministry. 

*  Plumbe  and  Kirkman  were  the  real  government  candidates  for  the 
shrievalty.  Oliver  stood  alone.  Yet  Junius,  availing  himself  of  this  last 
gentleman's  opposition  to  Wilkes,  was  shrewdly  desirous  of  impressing 
on  the  world  an  idea  that  they  had  all  been  supported  by  government  with 
a  view  of  throwing  out  Wilkes  and  his  avowed  colleague  Bull.  Edit. 


JUNIUS.  35 

You  are  bound  to  refute  what  I  here  advance,  or  to  lose 
your  credit  for  veracity:  You  must  produce  facts;  surmise 
and  general  abuse,  in  however  elegant  language,  ought  not 
to  pass  for  proofs.  You  have  every  advantage,  and  I  have 
every  disadvantage:  you  are  unknown,  I  give  my  name:  all 
parties,  both  in  and  out  of  administration,  have  their  reasons 
(which  I  shall  relate  hereafter)  for  uniting  in  their  wishes 
against  me:  and  the  popular  prejudice  is  as  strongly  in  your 
favour,  as  it  is  violent  against  the  parson*. 

*  This  paragraph  Mr.  Home  was  accused  of  borrowing  from  Mr.  Hugh 
Kelly,  author  of  False  Delicacy,  and  several  other  dramatic  pieces,  a? 
will  appear  from  the  following  letter  addressed  to  that  gentleman: — 

For  the  Public  Advertiser. 
TO  THE  REV.  MR.  HORNE. 
Sir,  July  20tb,  \77\- 

Happening  to  be  at  a  distance  from  London,  your  letter  to  Junius 
did  not  fall  into  my  hands  till  yesterday,  when  I  confess  I  read  it  with 
equal  astonishment  and  indignation;  and  though  it  may  be  inconsistent 
with  the  generosity  of  an  Englishman  to  strike  the  fallen,  there  is  some- 
thing so  peculiarly  unmanly  in  your  conduct,  that  it  is  impossible  to  let  you 
escape  without  some  memorandums  of  your  judgment  when  the  case  is,  and 
when  the  case  is  not  your  own. 

Do  you  remember,  Sir,  Friday,  April  30,  1771,  when  you  harangued 
the  freeholders  of  Middlesex  for  three  tedious  hours  at  the  assembly 
room  at  Mile-End;  when  you  urged  random  accusations  yourself  against 
others  for  their  supposed  connection  with  government;  when  you  particu- 
larly attacked  Mr.  Kelly  as  the  immediate  champion  of  administration, 
and  affirmed  with  great  pathos  that  he  was  employed  at  the  soldier's  trial 
at  Guildford  to  vindicate  the  wanton  effusion  of  innocent  blood. 

I  have  no  connection  with  Mr.  Kelly,  Sir,  nor  do  I  by  any  means  profess 
myself  of  his  political  faith:  But  if  fame  says  true,  he  has  been  no  apos- 
tate to  his  principles;  has  betrayed  no  friendship;  and  I  introduce  him 
solely  here,  that  the  world  may  see  how  conformable  the  tenor  of  Mr. 
Home's  conduct  is  to  the  candour  of  his  professions.  The  following,  Sir, 
is  your  speech  relative  to  the  Guildford  affair: 

"  It  is  necessary  to  give  you  an  account  of  Maclean's  trial,  because  the 
judge  forbad  its  being  taken  down  by  any  one  except  it  was  government — 
It  has  never  been  published — A  very  false  account  of  this  trial  has  indeed 
been  published  by  Mr.  Kelly,  who  was  paid  and  brought  down  to  Guildford 
for  that  purpose,  and  who  had  lodgings  taken  for  him  there,  and  who  was 
familiarly  conversant  with  a  gentleman,  whose  name  I  shall  not  mention 
now,  lest  it  should  seem  to  proceed  from  resentment  in  me,  for  an  account 

I  have 


30  LETTERS  OF 

Singular  as  my  present  situation  is,  it  is  neither  painful, 
nor  was  it  unforeseen.  He  is  not  fit  lor  public  business  who 
does  not  even  at  his  entrance  prepare  his  mind  for  such  an 
event.  Health,  fortune,  tranquillity,  and  private  connexions 
I  have  sacrificed  upon  the  altar  of  the  public;  and  the  only 
return  I  receive,  because  I  will  not  concur  to  dupe  and  mis- 
lead a  senseless  multitude,  is  barely,  that  they  have  not  yet 
torn  me  in  pieces.  That  this  has  been  the  only  return,  is  my 
pride;  and  a  source  of  more  real  satisfaction  than  honours 
or  prosperity.  I  can  practise  before  I  am  old,  the  lessons  I 
learned  in  my  youth;  nor  shall  I  ever  forget  the  words  of  my 
ancient  Monitor, 

"  'Tis  the  last  key-stone 
That  makes  the  arch:  the  rest  that  there  were  put, 
Are  nothing  till  that  comes  to  bind  and  shut. 
Then  stands  it  a  triumphal  mark!  then  men 
Observe  the  strength,  the  height,  the  why  and  when 
It  was  erected;  and  still  walking  under, 
Meet  some  new  matter  to  look  up  and  wonder!" 

I  am,  Sir, 

Your  humble  Servant, 

JOHN  HORNE. 

1  have  to  settle  with  him  next  week:  However,  one  circumstance  I  ought 
to  tell  you:  This  gentleman  was  foreman  of  the  grand  jury." 

Mr.  Kelly,  in  the  address  prefixed  to  his  play,  which  you  and  other  ad- 
vocates for  the  freedom  of  the  press  so  basely  drove  from  the  theatre,  after 
saying  some  civil  things  relative  to  the  character  which  he  had  heard  of 
your  disposition,  and  which  your  perfidy  to  that  true  friend  of  the  consti- 
tution, Mr.  Wilkes,  has  clearly  proved  you  never  merited,  thus  expresses 
himself: 

"  But  though  Mr.  Kelly  readily  makes  this  concession  in  favour  of  Mr. 
Home's  private  character,  he  must  observe  that  the  constitution  of  this 
country,  for  the  purity  of  which  Mr  Home  is  so  strenuous  an  advocate, 
does  not  allow  the  mere  belief  of  any  man  to  be  positive  evidence;  nor  com- 
pliment his  simple  conjecture  with  the  force  of  a  fact — For  this  reason  Mr. 
Home  should  be  extremely  cautious  how  he  asserts  anything  to  the  pre- 
judice of  another's  reputation:  Hearsay  authority  is  not  enough  for  this 
purpose;  he  should  know  of  his  own  knoivledg-e  what  he  asserts  upon  his 
own  ■word;  and  be  certain  in  his  proof  where  he  is  peremptory  in  his  accu- 
sation." 

Honestly 


JUNIUS.  37 


LETTER  LII. 

TO  THE  REVEREND  MR.  HORNE. 

Sir,  24  July,  1771. 

I  cannot  descend  to  an  altercation  with  you  in  the  news» 
papers.  But  since  I  have  attacked  your  character,  and  you 
complain  of  injustice,  I  think  you  have  some  right  to  an  ex* 
planation.  You  defy  me  to  prove,  that  you  ever  solicited  a 
vote,  or  wrote  a  word  in  support  of  the  ministerial  aldermen. 
Sir,  I  did  never  suspect  you  of  such  gross  folly.  It  would 
have  been  impossible  for  Mr.  Home  to  have  solicited  votes, 
and  very  difficult  to  have  written  for  the  news-papers  in  de- 
fence of  that  cause,  withou.  being  detected  and  brought  to 
shame.  Neither  do  I  pretend  to  any  intelligence  concerning 
you,  or  to  know  more  of  your  conduct,  than  you  yourself 
have  thought  proper  to  communicate  to  the  public.  It  is  from 
your  own  letters  I  conclude  that  you  have  sold  yourself  to 
the  ministry*:  or,  if  that  charge  be  too  severe,  and  supposing 
it  possible  to  be  deceived  by  appearances  so  very  strongly 
against  you,  what  are  your  friends  to  say  in  your  deft- nee? 
must  they  not  confess  that,  to  gratify  your  personal  hatred 
of  Mr.  Wilkes,  you  sacrificed,  as  far  as  depended  upon  your 
interest  and  abilities,  the  cause  of  the  country?  I  can  make 
allowance  for  the  violence  of  the  passions,  and  if  ever  J 
should  be  convinced  that  you  had  no  motive  but  to  destroy 
Wilkes,  I  shall  then  be  ready  to  do  justice  to  your  character, 
and  to  declare  to  the  world,  that  I  despise  you  somewhat 
less  than  I  do  at  present. — But  as  a  public  man,  I  must  for 

Honestly  now,  Mr.  Home,  had  you  not  this  paragraph  either  in  jour 
head,  or  your  heart,  at  the  time  you  were  writing  the  following  passage 
to  Junius? 
•"  You  are  bound  to  refute?  &c. 
I  am, 

Reverend  Sir, 

Your  humble  Servant, 

WHIPCORD 
To  this  letter  Mr.  Home  did  not  return  any  answer.  Edit. 

•  The  letters  written  by  Mr.  Home  in  the  dispute  with  Mr.  Wilkes. 
See  the  subsequent  note  as  well  as  one  appended  to  Private  Letter,  No. 
35.  Edit. 


38  LETTERS  Ul 

ever  condemn  you.  You  cannot  but  know, — nay,  you  dare 
not  pretend  to  be  ignorant,  that  the  highest  gratification  of 
\vhich  the  most  detestable  in  this  nation  is  capa*- 

ble,  would  have  been  the  defeat  of  Wilkes.  I  know  that  man 
much  better  than  any  of  you.  Nature  intended  him  only  for 
a  good-humoured  fool.  A  systematical  education,  with  long 
practice,  has  made  him  a  consummate  hypocrite.  Yet  this 
man,  to  say  nothing  of  his  worthy  ministers,  you  have  mos> 
assiduously  laboured  to  gratify.  To  exclude  Wilkes,  it  was 
not  necessary  you  should  solicit  votes  for  his  opponents.  We 
incline  the  balance  as  effectually  by  lessening  the  weight  in 
one  scale,  as  by  increasing  it  in  the  other. 

The  mode  of  your  attack  upon  Wilkes  (though  I  am  far 
from  thinking  meanly  of  your  abilities)  convinces  me,  that 
you  either  want  judgment  extremely,  or  that  you  are  blinded 
by  your  resentment.  You  ought  to  have  foreseen,  that  the 
charges  you  urged  against  Wilkes  could  never  do  him  any 
mischief.  After  all,  when  we  expected  discoveries  highly  in- 
teresting to  the  community,  what  a  pitiful  detail  did  it  end 
in! — Some  old  clothes — a  Welsh  pony — a  French  footman, 
and  a  hamper  of  claret*.  Indeed  Mr.  Home,  the  public 

*  The  fact  here  alluded  to  was  this: — The  late  Mr.  Tooke,  then  Mr. 
Home,  while  travelling  on  the  continent  was  introduced  to  Mr.  Wilkes, 
at  that  time  resident  in  Paris,  which  led  to  a  subsequent  intimacy,  and 
apparently  warm  friendship.  Mr.  Home,  on  leaving  that  gay  metropolis, 
left  behind  him,  in  the  care  of  Mr.  Wilkes,  several  suits  of  clothes  of  the 
most  fashionable  Parisian  manufacture,  being  ill  adapted  to  the  clerical 
profession,  as  well  as  ill  calculated  to  please  the  taste  or  suit  the  manners 
of  the  people  of  this  country.  In  a  subsequent  political  quarrel  between 
these  gentlemen,  which  took  place  shortly  previous  to  the  date  of  this 
letter,  and  which  was  the  subject  of  a  long  and  acrimonious  altercation  in 
the  Public  Advertiser,  Mr.  Home,  among  other  charges  which  he  prefer- 
red against  Mr.  Wilkes,  accused  him  of  having,  in  the  midst  of  hi9  dis- 
tress, pawned  the  clothes  entrusted  to  his  custody;  with  commissioning 
Mr.  H.'s  brother-in-law  to  purchase  a  pony  which  he  never  paid  for;  witli 
drinking  claret  while  detained  in  the  King's  Bench  prison;  with  endea- 
vouring to  make  his  brother  chamberlain  of  London;  and  with  retaining 
in  his  service  six  domestics,  three  of  whom  were  French.  As  these,  with 
several  other  charges  were  detailed  to  the  public  by  Mr.  Home  in  thir- 
teen or  fourteen  very  long  letters,  the  editor  will  not  here  transcribe  them, 
butcontent  himself  with  inserting  several  detached  parts  of  Mr.  Wilkes's 

defence 


JUNIUS.  39 

should,  and  will  forgive  him  his  claret  and  his  footmen,  and 
even  the  ambition  of  making  his  brother  chamberlain  of 

defence  against  these  accusations,  as  they  contain  some  curious  facts,  and 
are  illustrative  of  the  subject  more  particularly  adverted  to  in  the  textby 
the  author: 

For  the  Public  Advertiser. 
TO  THE  REV.  MR.  HORNE. 
Sir,  Prince's  Court,  Saturday,  May  18. 

Your  first  letter  of  May  14,  told  me  that  you  "  blamed  my  public  con- 
duct," and  "  would  not  open  any  account  with  me  on  the  score  of  private 
character."  A  third  letter  is  this  day  addressed  to  me.  Not  a  word  hitherto 
"  of  my  public  conduct,"  but  many  false  and  malignant  attacks  about  Mr. 
Wildman,  your  brother-in-law,  who  formerly  kept  the  Bedford  Head  in 
Southampton  Street,  Covent  Garden,  and  your  old  clothes.  The  public  will 
impute  the  impertinence  of  such  a  dispute  to  its  author,  and  pardon  my 
calling  their  attention  for  a  few  moments  to  scenes  of  so  trifling  a  nature, 
because  it  is  in  justification  of  an  innocent  man. 

When  you  left  Paris  in  May  1767,  you  desired  me  to  take  care  of  your 
old  clothes,  for  you  meant  to  return  in  a  few  months,  and  they  could  be  of 
no  use  to  you  in  England.  The  morning  of  your  departure  you  sent  me  thf 
following  letter. 
Dear  Sir, 
According  to  your  permission  I  leave  with  you 
1  Suit  of  scarlet  and  gold  7    j  tu 
1  Suit  of  white  and  silver  5 
1  Suit  of  blue  and  silver        camblet 
1  Suit  of  flowered  silk 
1  Suit  of  black  silk 
And  1  Black  velvet  surtout. 
If  you  have  any  fellow-feeling  you  cannot  but  be  kind  to  them;  since 
they  too  as  well  as  yourself  are  outlawed  in  England;  and  on  the  same 
account — their  superior  worth. 
1  am, 

Dear  Sir, 

Your  very  affectionate, 

humble  Servant, 

JOHN  HORNE, 
Paris,  May  25,  1767 

This  letter  I  returned  to  you  at  the  King's  Bench,  and  at  the  bottom  of 
it  the  following  memorandum  in  my  own  hand-writing,  "  Nov.  21,  1767, 
sent  to  Mr.  Panchaud's  in  the  Rue  St.  Sauveur."  I  left  Paris  Nov.  22, 1767, 
and  therefore  thought  it  proper  the  day  before  to  send  your  clothes  -vhere 
I  was  sure  they  would  be  perfectly  safe,  to  Mr.  Panchaud's,  the  grea.'. 
English  banker's.  They  remained  in  my  house,  Rue  des  Saints  Peres,  onlv 

from 


40  LETTERS  OF 

London,  as  long  as  he  stands  forth  against  a  ministry  and 
parliament,  who  are  doing  every  thing  they  can  to  enslave 

from  May  till  the  November  following,  nor  was  any  demand,  or  request, 
made  to  me  about  them  by  Mr.  Wildman,  or  any  one  else.  You  are  forced 
to  own  "  I  have  received  a  letter  within  the  last  three  months  from  Mr. 
Panchaud,  informing  me  that  they  {the  clotlies)  have  long  been  in  his  pos- 
session." Examine  the  banker's  books.  You  will  find  the  date  is  Nov.  21, 
1767.  You  say,  *  for  my  own  part  I  never  made  the  least  inquiry  after  my 
clothes."  I  suppose  for  the  plainest  reason  in  the  world.  You  knew  where 
they  were,  and  that  they  could  be  no  part  of  a  clergyman's  dress  in  Eng- 
land, but  that  you  were  sure  of  so  rich  a  wardrobe  on  your  next  tour  to 
France  or  Italy,  as  Paris  would  probably  be  your  route.  This  is  all  I  know 
of  the  Vestimenta  pretiosa  of  Eutrapelus.  I  hope,  Sir,  the  putting  them  on 
will  not  have  the  same  effect  on  you  as  they  formerly  had  on  his  acquaint- 
ance. 

Cum  pukris  tunicls  sumet  nova  consilia  et  spes; 

Dormiet  in  lucem;  scorto  postponet  honestum 

Officium;  nutnmos  alienos  pascet. 
Your  charge  about  your  brother-in-law  Mr.  Wildman  is  equally  unjust. 
When  I  was  in  England  in  October  1766,  I  lodged  at  Mr.  Wildman's 
house  in  Argyle  Buildings,  on  his  own  most  pressing  invitation.  I  had 
long  known  him,  and  for  several  years  belonged  to  a  club,  which  met  once 
a  week  at  the  Bedford  Head.  Mr.  Wildman  desired  to  be  considered  at 
this  time  as  the  warm  partisan  of  Mr.  Wiikes.  He  begged  that  he  might 
be  useful  as  far  as  he  could  to  me  and  my  friends.  I  asked  him  to  buy  a 
little  Welch  horse  for  a  lady  in  France,  to  whom  I  was  desirous  of  paying 
a  compliment.  I  fixed  the  price,  and  insisted  on  paying  him  at  that  very 
time,  which  I  did.  About  a  year  afterwards  Mr.  Wildman  fulfilled  my 
commission,  purchased  me  a  Welch  Pony,  and  sent  it  to  Calais.  This  was 
the  single  transaction  of  my  own  with  your  brother-in-law  at  that  time.  I 
gave  him  two  or  three  trifling  commissions  from  Monsieur  Saint  Foy  for 
arrack,  &.c.  which  were  to  be  forwarded  to  Paris.  I  believe  they  were  sent, 
but  they  never  passed  through  my  hands,  nor  do  I  know  whether  Mr. 
Wildman  has  yet  been  paid  for  those  trifles,  the  whole  of  which  amounted 
only,  as  he  told  me,  to  about  thirty  pounds. 

Your  endeavours  to  create  a  coolness  between  Mr.  Cotes  and  me  are 
clearly  seen  through,  and  will  prove  ineffectual.  You  made  the  same  at- 
tempt on  the  late  Mr.  Sterne  and  me  with  the  same  success.  In  your  let- 
ter to  me  at  Paris,  dated  Jan.  3,  1766,  you  say,  "  I  passed  a  week  with 
Sterne  at  Lyons,  and  am  to  meet  him  again  at  Sienna  in  the  summer — For- 
give my  question,  and  do  not  answer  it,  if  it  is  impertinent.  Is  there  any 
cause  of  coldness  between  you  and  Sterne;  he  speaks  very  handsomely  of 
you,  when  it  it  is  absolutely  necessary  to  speak  at  all;  but  not  with  that 
warmth  and  enthusiasm,  that  I  expect  from  every  one  that  knows  you.  Do 
not  let  me  cause  a  coldness  between  you  if  there  is  none.  I  am  sensible  my 
question  is  at  least  imprudent,  and  my  jealousy  blaroeable." 

In 


JUNIUS.  41 

the  country,  and  as  long  as  he  is  a  thorn  in  the  King's  side. 
You  will  not  suspect  me  of  setting  up  Wilkes  for  a  perfect 

In  your  second  letter  you  say,  "  the  nature  of  our  intercourse,  for  it  can- 
not be  called  a  connection,"  and  afterwards  "in  my  return  from  Italy  to 
England  in  the  year  1767,  I  saw  reasons  sufficient  never  more  to  trust  you 
-*vith  a  single  line,-"  and  in  your  third  letter  you  pretend  that  you  had  even 
in  1767  "  infinite  contempt  for  the  very  name  of  Mr.  Wilkes."  However, 
on  the  17th  of  last  May,  you  write  me  another  letter  on  my  going  to  Ful- 
ham,  while  my  house  here  was  repairing,  to  recommend  six  tradesmen  to 
me,  to  tell  me  how  most  sincerely  you  are  mine,  &c.  You  add,  "  I  could  not 
forbear  shewing  my  friendship  to  you  by  letting  you  know  your  friends." 
You  will  find,  Sir,  that  it  requires  more  memory  as  well  as  wit  than  falls 
to  one  man's  share  to  support  a  long  chain  of  falsehoods.  You  are  lost 
and  bewildered  in  the  intricacies  of  error.  The  path  of  truth  you  would  find 
more  easy  and  honourable. 

You  assert,  "  I  found  that  all  the  private  letters  of  your  friends  were 
regularly  pasted  in  a  book,  and  read  over  indiscriminately,  not  only  to  your 
friends  and  acquaintance,  but  to  every  visitor."  I  glory,  Sir,  in  having  four 
large  volumes  of  manuscript  letters,  many  of  them  written  by  the  first 
men  of  this  age.  I  esteem  them  my  most  valuable  possession.  Why  is  the 
pleasure  of  an  elegant  and  instructive  epistle  to  perish  with  the  hour  it  is 
received?  To  the  care  and  attention  of  Cicero's  friends  in  preserving  that 
great  Roman's  letters  we  owe  the  best  history  of  Rome  for  a  most  inte- 
resting period  of  about  forty  years.  You  mistake  when  you  talk  of  all  the 
private  letters  of  your  friends.  My  care  has  extended  only  to  letters  of  par- 
ticular friends  on  particular  occasions,  or  to  letters  of  business,  taste,  or 
literature.  The  originals  of  such  I  have  preserved;  never  any  copies  of 
my  own  letters,  unless  when  I  wrote  to  a  Secretary  of  State,  to  a  Talbot, 
a  Martin,  or  a  Home.  When  you  add,  "  that  they  are  read  over  indiscri- 
minately, not  only  to  your  friends,  and  acquaiatance,  but  to  every  visitor," 
you  knowingly  advance  a  falsehood.  So  much  of  your  time  has  passed 
with  me,  that  you  are  sensible  very  few  of  my  friends  have  ever  heard  of 
the  volumes  I  mentioned.  The  preservation  of  a  letter  is  surely  a  compli- 
ment to  the  writer.  But  although  I  approve  the  preservation,  in  general  I 
highly  disapprove  the  publication  of  any  private  letters.  However  there 
are  cases  which  justly  call  them  forth  to  light.  Mr.  Onslow's  first  letter 
was  after  great  importunity  from  you  printed  by  me,  to  justify  what  you 
had  said  at  Epsom.  The  second  you  printed,  without  my  consent,  from  a 
copy  I  suffered  you  to  take. 

The  pamphlet  you  mention  has  not  yet  been  published.  I  have  now  before 
me  the  copy,  corrected  with  your  own  hand,  which  you  gave  me  at  Paris. 
The  following  passage  I  am  sure  you  will  read  at  this  time  with  particular 
satisfaction,  and  I  reserve  it  for  you  pour  la  bonne  bouche. 

"  We  have  seen,  by  Jlr.  JVilkes's  treatment,  that  no  man  who  is  not, 
and  who  has  not  always  been,  absolutely  perfect  himself,  must  dare  to  ar 
raign  the  measures  of  a  minister. 

Vol.  II.  F  .   "  It 


42  LETTERS  OF 

character.  The  question  to  the  public,  is,  where  shall  we 
find  a  man,  who,  with  purer  principles,  will  go  the  lengths, 

"  It  is  not  sufficient  that  he  pay  an  inviolable  regard  to  the  laws;  that  he 
be  a  man  of  the  strictest  and  most  unimpeached  honour;  that  he  be  en- 
dowed with  superior  abilities  and  qualifications;  that  lie  be  blessed  with 
a  benevolent,  generous,  noble,  free  soul;  that  he  be  inflexible,  incorrupti- 
ble, and  brave;  that  he  prefer  infinitely  the  public  welfare  to  his  own  in- 
terest, peace,  and  safety;  that  his  life  be  ever  in  his  hand,  ready  to  be 
paid  down  cheerfully  for  the  liberty  of  his  country;  and  that  he  be  daunt- 
less and  unwearied  in  her  service. — All  this  avails  him  nothing. 

"  If  it  can  be  proved  (though  by  the  base  means  of  treachery  and  theft), 
that  in  some  unguarded,  wanton  hour  he  has  uttered  an  indecent  word, 
or  penned  a  loose  expression— —  Away  with  such  a  fellow  from  the  earth; 
——it  is  not  fit  that  he  should  live." 

****** 

After  a  variety  of  accusations  of  private  crimes  you  affect  to  cover  the 
whole  with  the  veil  of  hypocrisy.  You  say,  "  I  have  mentioned  these  cir- 
cumstances not  as  any  charges  against  you,  though  no  doubt  they  will 
operate  as  such."  Had  your  turn,  Sir,  been  to  divinity,  in  the  subtleties  of 
the  schools  you  would  have  outshone  Thomas  Aquinas  or  Duns  Scotus,  in 
treachery  even  the  priest  Jllalagrida. 

You  have  in  your  late  letters  to  me  accused  me  of  almost  every  crime,  of 
which  the  most  diabolical  heart  is  capable.  When  you  wrote  the  letters 
to  Sir  William  Beauchnmp  Proctor,  I  had  only  one  crime,  of  which  I  own 
I  have  not  repented.  "  Mr.  Hrilkes's  crime  is  well  known  to  have  been  his 
opposing  and  exposing  the  measures  of  Lord  Bute. 

"  The  two  Humes,  Johnson,  Murphy,  Ralph,  Smollet,  Shebbeare,  &c. 
&c.  all  authors  pensioned,  or  promised,  had  been  let  loose  on  him  in  vain. 
The  Lord  Steward  of  his  Majesty's  household,  (who  has  therefore  conti- 
nued in  that  post  through  every  revolution  of  ministry)  and  the  treasurer 
to  the  Princess  Dowager  of  Wales,  (who  together  with  that  office  has  a 
pension  for  himself  and  a  reversion  for  his  son)  had  separately  endeavour- 
ed to  commit  a  murder  on  his  body,  with  as  little  success  as  others  Fiad  at- 
tempted his  reputation:  For  they  found  him  tarn  Marte  quam  Mercurio. 

"  The  intended  assassination  of  him  by  Forbes  and  Dun  had  miscarried 

"  The  Secretaries  of  State  had  seized  his  papers,  and  confined  his  per- 
son to  close  imprisonment.  They  had  trifled  with  and  eluded  the  Habeas 
Corpus.  But  still  he  rose  superior  to  them  all,  and  bajflcd  alone  the  insatiable 
malice  of  all  Ids  persecutors;  for  though  they  had  in  a  manner  ruined  his  pri- 
vate fortunes,  Ids  public  character  remained  entire.  They  had  spilt  his  blood 
indeed;  but  they  had  not  taken  his  life,  and  with  it  still  were  left 

The  unconquerable  mind,  and  freedom's  holy  flame. 
It  remained  then  to  make  one  general  attack  upon  him  at  once  of  even 
power  of  the  state,  each  in  its  separate  capacity.  The  reverend  name  of 
Majesty  itself  was  misapplied  to  this  business.  The  House  of  Lords,  the 
House  of  Common*,  and  the  Court  of  King's  Bench,  through  the  little 

agency 


JUNIUS.  4„ 

and  run  the  hazards  that  he  has  done?  the  season  calls  for 
such  a  man,  and  he  ought  to  be  supported.  What  would 

agency  of  Carrington,  Kidgell,  Curry,  Webb,  Faden,  Sandwich,  made  o::c 

general  assault." 

****** 

As  you  mention  a  promise  you  had  obtained  of  being  one  of  the  chaplains 
to  his  Majesty,  I  shall  conclude  my  present  extracts  with  the  following- 
passage,  which  will  shew  how  peculiarly  fitted  you  are  to  be  a  domestic 
chaplain  to  our  present  Sovereign. 

"  Sheridan  is  at  Blois,  by  order  of  his  Majesty,  and  with  a  pension;  in- 
venting a  method  to  give  the  proper  pronunciation  of  the  English  language 
to  strangers,  by  means  of  sounds  borrowed  from  their  own.  And  he  be- 
gins with  the  French. 

"  I  remember  a  few  years  ago  when  an  attempt  was  made  to  prove  Lord 
Harborough  an  idiot.  The  counsel  on  both  sides  produced  the  same  in- 
stance; one  of  his  wit,  the  other  of  his  folly.  His  servants  were  puzzled 
once  to  unpack  a  large  bos,  and  his  lordship  advised  them  to  do  with  it 
as  they  did  with  oysters — put  it  in  the  fire,  and  it  would  gape. 

"  This  commission  of  Sheridan  appears  to  me  equally  equivocal.  And 
should  a  similar  statute  be  at  any  time  attempted  against  his  Majesty,  they 
who  do  not  know  him  may  be  apt  to  suspect  that  he  employed  Sheridan 
in  this  manner,  not  so  much  for  the  sake  of  foreigners  as  of  his  own  sub- 
jects; and  had  permitted  him  to  amuse  himself  abroad,  to  prevent  his 
spoiling  our  pronunciation  at  home." 

****** 

Am  I  to  answer  your  impertinence  about  claret  and  French  servants? 
It  shall  be  in  one  word.  I  have  not  purchased  a  bottle  of  claret  since  I  left 
the  King's  Bench.  Only  two  French  servants  are  in  my  family.  An  old 
woman,  who  has  many  years  attended  my  daughter,  and  a  footman,  whom 
I  esteem,  as  I  have  often  told  you,  not  as  a  Frenchman,  but  for  his  singu- 
lar fidelity  to  an  Englishman  during  a  course  of  several  years,  when  I  had 
the  honour  of  being  exiled.  I  have  reason  to  believe  that  from  hence  ori- 
ginated your  hatred  to  him. 

****** 

You  assert,  w  though  I  knew  not  the  person  of  any  one  man  in  opposi- 
tion, I  quitted  all  my  friends  and  connections  when  I  joined  the  public- 
cause;  and  with  my  eyes  open,  exchanged  ease  and  fair  fame  for  labour 
and  reproach."  I  desire  to  know  what  one  friend,  and  what  single  con- 
nection, you  have  quitted  for  the  public  cause.  Your  fair  fame  at  Eton  and 
Cambridge  survived  a  very  short  time  your  abode  at  either  of  these  places. 
Will  you  call  an  Italian  gentleman  now  in  town,  your  confident  during 
your  whole  residence  at  Genoa,  to  testify  the  morality  of  your  conduct  in 
Italy!— But  I  will  not  write  the  life  of  Jonathan  Wild,  nor  of  Orator  Hen- 
ley. 

You  declare  "  ministerial  and  court  favour  I  know  I  can  never  have,  and 

for 


44  LETTERS  OF 

have  been  the  triumph  of  that  odious  hypocrite  and  his  mi- 
nions, if  Wilkes  had  been  defeated!  It  was  not  your  fault,, 
reverend  Sir,  that  he  did  not  enjoy  it  completely. — But  now 
I  promise  you,  you  have  so  little  power  to  do  mischief,  that 
I  much  question  whether  the  ministry  will  adhere  to  the 
promises  they  have  made  you.  It  will  be  in  vain  to  say  that 
i"  am  a  partisan  of  Mr.  Wilkes,  or  personally  your  enemy. 
You  will  convince  no  man,  for  you  do  not  believe  it  yourself. 
Yet,  I  confess,  I  am  a  little  offended  at  the  low  rate,  at  which, 
you  seem  to  value  my  understanding.  I  beg,  Mr.  Home, 
you  will  hereafter  believe  that  I  measure  the  integrity  of 
men,  by  their  conduct,  not  by  their  professions.  Such  tales 

for  public  favour  I  will  never  be  a  candidate:  I  chuse  to  tell  them  that,  as 
far  as  it  effects  myself,  1  laugh  at  the  displeasure  of  both."  You  well  know 
that  no  minister  will  ever  dare  openly  to  give  you.  any  mark  of  court  favour, 
at  least  in  the  church;  many  secret  favours  you  may,  you  do  expect,  and 
some  I  believe  actually  receive.  The  public  you  have  abandoned  in  despair, 
after  an  assiduous  courtship  of  near  four  years,  but  remember,  Sir,  when, 
you  say,  that  you  laugh  at  their  displeasure,  the  force  of  truth  has  extorted 
even  from  Lord  Mansfield  the  following  declaration,  "  the  people  are  al- 
most always  in  the  right:  The  great  may  sometimes  be  in  the  wrong,  but 
the  body  of  the  people  are  always  in  the  right." 
****** 

In  your  first  letter  you  declare  "  it  is  necessary  to  give  a  short  history 
of  the  commencement,  progress,  and  conclusion  of  the  intercourse  between 
us."  In  your  second  you  say  the  nature  of  our  intercourse  (for  it  cannot  be 
called  a  connection)  will  best  appear  from  the  situation  of  each  of  us  at  its 
commencement."  Your  situation  shall  be  explained  by  yourself  from  the 
words  of  the  first  letter  you  ever  wrote  to  me. 

"  You  are  entering  into  a  correspondence  with  a.  parson,  and  I  am  a  lit- 
tle apprehensive  lest  that  title  should  disgust  you:  But  give  me  leave  to 
assure  you  I  am  not  ordained  a  hypocrite. 

"  It  is  true  I  have  suffered  the  infectious  hand  of  a  bishop  to  be  waved 
over  me;  whose  imposition,  like  the  sop  given  to  Judas,  is  only  a  signal 
for  the  devil  to  enter.  It  is  true  that  usually  at  that  touch— —fugiunt  pu- 
do;,  verumque,  fidesque.  In  quorum  subeunt  locum  fraudes,  dolique,  in- 
siriksque,  &c.  &c.  but  I  hope  I  have  escaped  the  contagion:  And  if  I  have 
not,  if  you  should  at  any  time  discover  the  black  spot  under  the  tongue, 
assist  me  kindly  to  conquer  the  prejudices  of  education  and  profession.'* 

I  am,  Sir, 

Your  humble  servant, 

En-  JOHN  WILKES. 


JUNIUS.  45 

may  entertain  Mr.  Oliver,  or  your  grandmother,  but  trust 
me,  they  are  thrown  away  upon  Junius. 

You  say  you  are  a  man.  Was  it  generous,  was  it  manly, 
repeatedly  to  introduce  into  a  news-paper,  the  name  of  a 
young  lady*,  with  whom  you  must  heretofore  have  lived  on 
terms  of  politeness  and  good-humour? — but  I  have  done 
with  you.  In  my  opinion,  your  credit  is  irrecoverably  ruined. 
Mr.  Townshend,  I  think  is  nearly  in  the  same  predicament. — 
Poor  Oliver  has  been  shamefully  duped  by  you.  You  have 
made  him  sacrifice  all  the  honour  he  got  by  his  imprison- 
ment.— As  for  Mr.  Sawbridge],  whose  character  I  really 
respect,  I  am  astonished  he  does  not  see  through  your  du- 
plicity. Never  was  so  base  a  design  so  poorly  conducted. — - 
This  letter,  you  see,  is  not  intended  for  the  public,  but  if  you 
think  it  will  do  you  any  service,  you  are  at  liberty  to  pub- 
lish it. 

JUNIUS. 

*»*  This  letter  was  transmitted  privately  by  the  printer  to  Mr.  Home, 
by  Junius's  request.  Mr.  Home  returned  it  to  the  printer,  with  directions 
to  publish  it.  Author. 

The  reason  for  such  private  transmission  was,  that  it  was  not  Junius's 
wish  to  increase  those  divisions  which  Home  and  Oliver  had  so  unwisely 
provoked  in  the  Bill  of  Rights  Society,  by  an  open  contest  between  him- 
self and  any  one  of  its  members.  Edit. 


*  Home  had  taken  liberties  with  the  name  of  Miss  Wilkes  in  his  public 
letters  in  some  of  the  news-papers — and  liberties  which  no  misconduct  of 
hers  had  entitled  him  to  take.  Edit. 

j-  Townshend  and  Sawbridge  had  been  persuaded  by  Home  to  unite  in 
supporting  Oliver  against  Wilkes;  and  both,  in  consequence  hereof,  for- 
feited much  of  their  popularity  from  this  moment,  and  were  accused  of 
gross  want  of  understanding,  and  by  some  cf  tergiversation.  Edit. 


4£  LETTERS  OF 


LETTER  LIII. 

FROM  THE  REVEREND  MR.  HORNE  TO  JUNIUS. 

Sir,  31  July,  1771. 

You  have  disappointed  me.  When  I  told  you  that  sur- 
mise and  general  abuse,  in  however  elegant  language,  ought 
not  to  pass  for  proofs,  I  evidently  hinted  at  the  reply  which 
I  expected:  but  you  have  dropped  your  usual  elegance,  and 
seem  willing  to  try  what  will  be  the  effect  of  surmise  and 
general  abuse  in  very  coarse  language.  Your  answer  to  my 
letter  (which  I  hope  was  cool  and  temperate  and  modest) 
has  convinced  me  that  my  idea  of  a  man  is  much  superior  to 
yours  of  a  gentleman.  Of  your  former  letters  I  have  always 
said  materiem  superabat  opus:  I  do  not  think  so  of  the  pre- 
sent; the  principles  are  more  detestable  than  the  expressions 
are  mean  and  illiberal.  I  am  contented  that  all  those  who 
adopt  the  one  should  for  ever  load  me  with  the  other. 

I  appeal  to  the  common-sense  of  the  public,  to  which  I 
have  ever  directed  myself:  I  believe  they  have  it,  though  I 
am  sometimes  half-inclined  to  suspect  that  Mr.  Wilkes  has 
formed  a  truer  judgment  of  mankind  than  I  have.  However 
of  this  I  am  sure,  that  there  is  nothing  else  upon  which  to 
place  a  steady  reliance.  Trick,  and  low  cunning,  and  address- 
ing their  prejudices  and  passions,  may  be  the  fittest  means 
to  carry  a  particular  point;  but  if  they  have  not  common- 
sense,  there  is  no  prospect  of  gaining  for  them  any  real  per- 
manent good.  The  same  passions  which  have  been  artfully 
used  by  an  honest  man  for  their  advantage,  may  be  more 
artfully  employed  by  a  dishonest  man  for  their  destruction. 
I  desire  them  to  apply  their  common-sense  to  this  letter  of 
Junius,  not  for  my  sake,  but  their  own;  it  concerns  them 
most  nearly,  for  the  principles  it  contains  lead  to  disgrace 
and  ruin,  and  are  inconsistent  with  every  notion  of  civil 
■ociety. 

The  charges  which  Junius  has  brought  against  me  are 
made  ridiculous  by  his  own  inconsistency  and  self-contra- 
il rtion.  He  charges  me  positively  with  u  a  new  zeal  in  sup- 


JUNIUS.  47 

port  of  administration;"  and  with  "  endeavours  in  support  of 
the  ministerial  nomination  of  Sheriffs."  And  he  assigns  two 
inconsistent  motives  for  my  conduct:  either  that  I  have  "  sold 
myself  to  the  ministry;"  or  am  instigated  "by  the  solitary, 
vindictive  malice  of  a  monk:"  either  that  I  am  influenced  by 
a  sordid  desire  of  gain;  or  am  hurried  on  by  "  personal 
hatred  and  blinded  by  resentment"  In  his  letter  to  the  Duke 
of  Grafton  he  supposes  me  actuated  by  both:  in  his  letter  to 
me  he  at  first  doubts  which  of  the  two,  whether  interest,  or 
revenge  is  my  motive:  however,  at  last  he  determines  for  the 
former,  and  again  positively  asserts  that  "  the  ministry  have 
made  me  promises;"  yet  he  produces  no  instance  of  corrup- 
tion, nor  pretends  to  have  any  intelligence  of  a  ministerial 
connection:  he  mentions  no  cause  of  personal  hatred  to  Mr. 
Wilkes,  nor  any  reason  for  my  resentment,  or  revenge;  nor 
has  Mr.  Wilkes  himself  ever  hinted  any,  though  repeatedly 
pressed*.  When  Junius  is  called  upon  to  justify  his  accusa- 

•  In  one  of  the  letters  addressed  to  Mr.  Wilkes  by  Mr.  Home,  during 
the  altercation  spoken  of  in  the  preceding  notes,  he,  the  latter,  thus  ex- 
plains himself  with  respect  to  his  support  of  the  former,  as  well  as  to  the 
motives  which  induced  him  to  withdraw  it.  In  this  extract  he  also  gives 
us  a  general  outline  of  his  political  opinions,  from  which  he  does  not  ap- 
pear to  have  materially  varied  to  the  day  of  his  death.  "  I  was  your  friend 
only  for  the  sake  of  the  public  cause:  that  reason  does  in  certain  matters 
remain;  as  far  as  it  remains,  so  far  I  am  still  your  friend;  and  therefore  I 
said  in  my  first  letter,  'the  public  should  know  how  far  they  ought,  and 
how  far  they  ought  not  to  support  you.'  To  bring  to  punishment  the  great 
delinquents  who  have  corrupted  the  parliament  and  the  seats  of  justice; 
who  have  encouraged,  pardoned,  and  rewarded  murder:  to  heal  the 
breaches  made  in  the  constitution,  and  by  salutary  provisions  to  prevent 
them  for  the  future;  to  replace  once  more,  not  the  administration  and  exe- 
cution, for  which  they  are  very  unfit,  but  the  checks  of  government  really  in 
the  hands  of  the  governed; 

"  For  these  purposes,  if  it  were  possible  to  suppose  that  the  great  ene- 
my of  mankind  could  be  rendered  instrumental  to  their  happiness,  so  far 
the  devil  himself  should  be  supported  by  the  people.  For  a  human  instru- 
ment they  should  go  farther,  he  should  not  only  be  supported,  but  thanked 
]  and  rewarded  for  the  good  which  perhaps  he  did  not  intend,  as  an  en- 
couragement to  others  to  follow  his  example.  But  if  the  foul  fiend  having 
gained  their  support,  should  endeavour  to  delude  the  weaker  part,  and 
intice  them  to  an  idolatrous  worship  of  himself,  by  persuading-  them  that 
what  he  suggested  was  their  voice,  and  their  voice  the  voice  of  God:  if  he 
should  attempt  to  obstruct  every  thing  that  leads  to  their  security  and 

happiness, 


48  LETTERS  OF 

lion,  he  answers,  "he  cannot  descend  to  an  altercation  with 
me  in  the  news-papers."  Junius,  who  exists  only  in  the  news- 
papers, who  acknowledges  "  he  has  attacked  my  character" 
there,  and  "  thinks  I  have  some  right  to  an  explanation;''''  yet 
this  Junius  "  cannot  descend  to  an  altercation  in  the  news- 
papers!" and  because  he  cannot  descend  to  an  altercation 
with  me  in  the  news-papers,  he  sends  a  letter  of  abuse  by  the 
printer,  which  he  finishes  with  telling  me — M  I  am  at  liberty 
to  publish  it."  This,  to  be  sure,  is  a  most  excellent  method 
to  avoid  an  altercation  in  the  news-papers! 

happiness,  and  to  promote  every  wickedness  that  tends  only  to  his  own 
emolument:  if  when — the  cause — the  cause — reverberates  on  their  ears, 
he  should  divert  them  from  the  original  sound  and  direct  them  towards 
the  opposite  unfaithful  echo:  if  confusion  should  be  all  his  aim,  and  mis- 
rhief  his  sole  enjoyment,  would  not  he  act  the  part  of  a  faithful  monitor 
to  the  people,  who  should  save  them  from  their  snares,  by  reminding  them 
of  the  true  object  of  their  constitutional  worship,  expressed  in  those  words 
of  holy  writ  (for  to  me  it  is  so)  Rex,  Lex  loquens;  Lex,  Rex  mutus.  This  is 
— the  cause — the  cause — To  make  this  union  indissoluble  is  the  only  cause 
I  acknowledge.  As  far  as  the  support  of  Mr.  Wilkes  tends  to  this  point  I 
am  as  warm  as  the  warmest:  But  all  the  lines  of  your  projects  are  drawn 
towards  a  different  center — yourself;  and  if  with  a  good  intention  I  have 
been  diligent  to  gain  you  powers  which  may  be  perverted  to  mischief,  I 
am  bound  to  be  doubly  diligent  to  prevent  their  being  so  employed. 

"  The  diligence  I  have  used  for  two  years  past,  and  the  success  I  have 
had  in  defeating  all  your  shameful  schemes,  is  the  true  cause  of  the  dis- 
tention between  us.  I  have  never  had  any  private  pique  or  quarrel  with 
vou.  It  was  your  policy  in  paragraphs  and  anonymous  letters  to  pretend  it; 
but  you  cannot  mention  any  private  cause  of  pique  or  quarrel. 

"  To  prevent  the  mischief  of  division  to  a  popular  opposition,  those  who 
saw  both  your  bad  intentions  and  your  actions  were  silent;  and  whilst  thev 
lefeated  all  your  projects,  they  were  cautious  to  conceal  your  defeats 
They  studied  so  much  the  more  to  satisfy  your  voracious  prodigalitv,  and 
thought,  as  I  should  have  done  if  a  minister,  that  if  feeding  it  would  kee* 
vou  from  mischief,  a  few  thousands  would  be  well  employed  by  the  public 
for  that  purpose.  But  I  can  never,  merely  for  the  sake  of  strengthening- 
opposition,  join  in  those  actions  which  would  prevent  all  the  good  effects 
to  be  hoped  for  from  opposition,  and  for  the  sake  of  which  alone  any  op- 
position to  government  can  be  justifiable.  Such  a  practice  would  very  well 
suit  those  who  wish  a  change  of  ministers.  For  my  part  I  wish  no  such 
tiling;  bad  as  the  present  are,  I  am  afraid  the  next  will  not  be  better,  though 
I  am  sure  they  cannot  be  worse.  I  care  not  under  whose  administration 
good  comes.  But  the  people  must  owe  it  to  themselves,  nor  ought  they  to 
receive  the  restoration  of  their  rights  as  a  faVour  from  any  set  of  men, 

minister. 


JUNIUS.  49 

The  proofs  of  his  positive  charges  are  as  extraordinary, 
"  He  does  not  pretend  to  any  intelligence  concerning  me,  or 
to  know  more  of  my  conduct  than  I  myself  have  thought 

minister,  or  King.  The  moment  they  accept  it  as  a  grant,  a  favour,  an  act 
of  grace,  the  people  have  not  the  prospect  of  a  right  left.  The)-  will  from 
that  time  become  like  the  mere  possessors  of  an  estate  without  a  title,  and 
of  which  they  may  be  dispossessed  at  pleasure.  If  the  people  are  not  pow- 
erful enough  to  make  a  bad  administration  or  a  bad  king  do  them  justice, 
they  will  not  often  have  a  good  one.  Would  to  God,  the  time  were  come, 
which  I  am  afraid  is  very  distant  beyond  the  period  of  my  life,  when  an 
honest  man  could  not  be  in  opposition;  I  declare  I  should  rejoice  to  find 
the  patronage  of  a  minister  in  the  smallest  degree  my  honour  and  interest. 
I  never  have  pretended  to  any  more  than  to  prefer  the  former  to  the  latter. 
But  it  is  not  upon  me  alone  that  you  have  poured  forth  your  abuse,  but 
upon  every  man  of  honour  who  has  deserved  well  of  the  public;  and  if  you 
were  permitted  to  proceed  without  interruption,  there  would  shortly  not 
be  found  one  honest  man  who  would  not  shudder  to  deserve  well  of  the 
people. 

"  The  true  reason  of  our  dissension  being  made  public,  is,  that  you 
could  not  get  on  a  step  without  it;  and  you  trust  that  the*  popularity  of 
your  name,  and  your  diligence  in  paragraphing  the  papers,  will  outweigh 
with  the  people  the  most  essential  services  of  others;  and  that  you  shall 
get  rid  of  all  control  by  taking  away  from  those  who  mean  well,  the  con- 
fidence of  the  people.  If  you  can  once  get  them  affronted  by  the  public, 
whom  they  have  faithfully  served,  you  flatter  yourself  that  disgust  will 
make  them  retire  from  a  scene  where  such  a  man  as  you  are,  covered 
with  infamy  like  yours,  has  the  disposal  of  honour  and  disgrace,  and  the 
characters  of  honest  men  at  his  mercy. 

JOHN  HORNE." 

To  the  second  paragraph  of  this  extract  Mr.  Wilkes  makes  the  follow- 
ing reply: 

"  I  thank  you  for  the  entertainment  of  your  sixth  letter.  The  idea  of 
an  unfaithful  echo,  although  not  quite  new  and  original,  is  perfectly 
amusing;  but,  like  Bayes,  you  love  to  elevate  and  surprise.  I  wish  you 
would  give  the  list  of  echoes  of  this  kind,  which  you  have  heard  in  your 
travels  through  France  and  Italy.  I  have  read  of  only  one  such  in  a  neigh- 
bouring kingdom.  If  you  ask,  Ho-w  do  you  do?  it  answers,  Pretty  viell  I  thank 
you.  The  sound  of  your  unfaithful  echo  can  only  be  paralleled  by  Jack 
Home's  silence  with  a  stilly  sound,  in  the  tragedy  of  Douglas. 
The  torrent  rushing  o'er  its  pebbly  banks, 
Infuses  silence  with  a  stilly  sound. 

I  have  heard  of  the  babbling,  the  mimic,  the  shrill  echo.  The  discovery 
of  an  unfaithful  echo  was  reserved  for  Mr.  Home.  Really,  Sir,  I  should 
have  thought,  notwithstanding  all  your  rage,  you  might  have  suffered  an 
echo  to  be  faithful.  I  did  not  expect  novelty,  or  variety,  mu.cb.les3  infide- 
lity from  an  echo."  Edit. 

Vol.  II.  G 


50  LETTERS  OF 

proper  to  communicate  to  the  public."  He  does  not  suspect 
me  of  such  gross  folly  as  to  have  solicited  votes,  or  to  have 
written  anonymously  in  the  news-papers;  because  it  is  impos- 
sible to  do  either  of  these  without  being  detected  and  brought 
to  shame.  Junius  says  this!  who  yet  imagines  that  he  has 
himself  written  two  years  under  that  signature,  (and  more 
under  others)  without  being  detected! — his  warmest  admi- 
rers will  not  hereafter  add,  without  being  brought  to  shame. 
But  though  he  did  never  suspect  me  of  such  gross  folly  as 
to  run  the  hazard  of  being  detected  and  brought  to  shame 
by  anonymous  writing,  he  insists  that  I  have  been  guilty  of 
a  much  grosser  folly  of  incurring  the  certainty  of  shame  and 
detection  by  writings  signed  with  my  name!  But  this  is  a 
small  flight  for  the  towering  Junius:  "  He  is  far  from 
thinking  meanly  of  my  abilities,"  though  he  is  "  convinced 
that  I  want  judgment  extremely,"  and  can,  "  really  respect 
Mr.  Sawbridge's  character,"  though  he  declares  *  him  to 
be  so  poor  a  creature  as  not  to  "  see  through  the  basest  de- 
sign conducted  in  the  poorest  manner!"  And  this  most  base 
design  is  conducted  in  the  poorest  manner,  by  a  man  whom 
he  does  not  suspect  of  gross  folly,  and  of  whose  abilities  he 
is  far  from  thinking  meanly! 

Should  we  ask  Junius  to  reconcile  these  contradictions, 
and  explain  this  nonsense,  the  answer  is  ready;  "  he  cannot 
descend  to  an  altercation  in  the  news-papers."  He  feels  no 
reluctance  to  attack  the  character  of  any  man:  the  throne  is 

*  I  be$r  leave  to  introduce  Mr.  Home  to  the  character  of  the  Double 
Dealer.  1  thought  they  had  been  better  acquainted.—"  Another  very 
wrone-  objection  has  been  made  by  some,  who  have  not  taken  leisure  to 
distinguish  the  characters.  The  hero  of  the  play  (meaning  Mellefont)  is  a 
inill  and  made  a  fool,  and  cheated.— Is  every  man  a  gull  and  a  fool  that  is 
deceived?— At  that  rate,  I  am  afraid  the  two  classes  of  men  will  be  re 
duced  to  one,  and  the  knaves  themselves  be  at  a  loss  to  justify  their  title 
But  if  an  open,  honest-hearted  man,  who  has  an  entire  confidence  in  one 
whom  he  takes  to  be  his  friend,  and  who  (to  confirm  him  in  his  opinion) 
in  all  appearance  and  upon  several  trials  has  been  so;  if  this  man  be  de- 
ceived by  the  treachery  of  the  other,  must  he  of  necessity  commence  fool 
immediately,  only  because  the  other  has  proved  a  villain ?"— Yes,  says 
parson  Home.  No,  says  Congreve,  and  he,  I  think,  is  allc  >vcd  to  have  kno-v 
something  of  human  nature. 


JUNIUS.  51 

not  too  high,  nor  the  cottage  too  low:  his  mighty  malice  can 
grasp  both  extremes:  he  hints  not  his  accusations  as  opinion^ 
conjecture,  or  inference;  but  delivers  them  as  positive  as- 
sertions: Do  the  accused  complain  of  injustice?  He  ac- 
knowledges they  have  some  sort  of  right  to  an  explanation; 
but  if  they  ask  for  proofs  and  facts,  he  begs  to  be  excused: 
and  though  he  is  no  where  else  to  be  encountered — "  he 
cannot  descend  to  an  altercation  in  the  news-papers." 

And  this  perhaps  Junius  may  think  "  the  liberal  resent- 
ment of  a  gentleman:"  this  skulking  assassination  he  ma}' 
•all  courage.  In  all  things  as  in  this  I  hope  we  differ: 

"  I  thought  that  fortitude  had  been  a  mean 
'Twixt  fear  and  rashness;  not  a  lust  obscene 
Or  appetite  of  offending;  but  a  skill 
And  nice  discernment  between  good  and  ill. 
Her  ends  are  honesty  and  public  good, 
And  without  these  she  is  not  understood." 

Of  two  things  however  he  has  condescended  to  give  proof. 
He  very  properly  produces  a  young  lady  to  prove  that  I  am 
not  a  man:  and  a  good  old  woman,  my  grandmother,  to  prove 
Mr.  Oliver  a  fool.  Poor  old  soul!  she  read  her  bible  far 
otherwise  than  Junius!  she  often  found  there  that  the  sins 
of  the  fathers  had  been  visited  on  the  children;  and  there- 
fore was  cautious  that  herself  and  her  immediate  descend- 
ants should  leave  no  reproach  on  her  posterity:  and  they  left 
none:  how  little  could  she  foresee  this  reverse  of  Junuis, 
who  visits  my  political  sins  upon  my  grandmother!  I  do  not 
charge  this  to  the  score  of  malice  in  him,  it  proceeded  en- 
tirely from  his  propensity  to  blunder;  that  whilst  he  was  re- 
proaching me  for  introducing  in  the  most  harmless  manner, 
the  name  of  one  female,  he  might  himself  at  the  same  instant., 
introduce  two. 

I  am  represented  alternately  as  it  suits  Junius's  purpose, 
mder  the  opposite  characters  of  a  gloomy  Monk,  and  a  man 
of  politeness  and  good  humour.  I  am  called  "  a  solitary 
Monk"  in  order  to  confirm  the  notion  given  of  me  in  Mr. 
Wilkes's  anonymous  paragraphs,  that  I  never  laugh:  and  the 
terms  of  politeness  and  good  humour  on  which  I  am  said  to 


52  LETTERS  01 

have  lived  heretofore  with  the  young  lady,  are  intended  to 
confirm  other  paragraphs  of  Mr.  Wilkes,  in  which  he  is 
supposed  to  have  offended  me  by  refusing  his  daughter* 
Ridiculous!  Yet  I  cannot  deny  but  that  Junius  has  proved 
me  unmanly  and  ungenerous  as  clearly  as  he  has  shewn  me 
corrupt  and  vindictive:  and  I  will  tell  him  more;  I  have  paid 
the  present  ministry  as  many  visits  and  compliments  as  ever 
I  paid  to  the  young  lady,  and  shall  all  my  life  treat 'them 
with  the  same  politeness  and  good  humour. 

But  Junius  "  begs  me  to  believe  that  he  measures  the 
integrity  of  men  by  their  conduct,  not  by  their  professions" 
Surely  this  Junius  must  imagine  his  readers  as  void  of  un- 
derstanding, as  he  is  of  modesty!  Where  shall  we  find  the 
standard  of  his  integrity?  By  what  are  we  to  measure  the 
conduct  of  this  lurking  assassin? — And  he  says  this  to  me, 
whose  conduct,  wherever  I  could  personally  appear,  has  been 
as  direct  and  open  and  public  as  my  words;  I  have  not,  like 
him,  concealed  myself  in  my  chamber  to  shoot  my  arrows 
out  of  the  window;  nor  contented  myself  to  view  the  battle 
from  afar;  but  publicly  mixed  in  the  engagement,  and  shared 
the  danger.  To  whom  have  I,  like  him,  refused  my  name 
upon  complaint  of  injury?*  what  printer  have  I  desired  to  s 
conceal  me?  in  the  infinite  variety  of  business  in  which  I  have 
been  concerned,  where  it  is  not  so  easy  to  be  faultless,  which 
of  my  actions  can  he  arraign?  to  what  danger  has  any  man 
been  exposed,  which  I  have  not  faced?  information,  action, 
imprisonment,  or  death?  what  labour  have  I  refused?  what 
expense  have  I  declined?  what  pleasure  have  I  not  renounced? 
— But  Junius,  to  whom  no  conduct  belongs,  ''measures  the 
integrity  of  men  by  their  conduct,  not  by  jheir  profes- 
sions;" himself  all  the  while  being  nothing  but  professions, 
and  those  too  anonymous',  the  political  ignorance  or  wilful 
falsehood  of  this  declaimer  is  extreme:  his  own  former  let- 
ters justify  both  my  conduct  and  those  whom  his  last  letter 
abuses:  for  the  public  measures,  which  Junius  has  been  all 
along  defending,  were  ours,  whom  he  attacks;  and  the  uni- 

*  Alluding  to  Sir  Wm.  Draper's  call  upon  Junius  for  his  name.  See 
*hc  conclusion  of  Letter  xxiv.  Edit 


JUNIUS.  53 

form  opposer  of  those  measures  has  been  Mr.  Wilkes,  whose 
bad  actions  and  intentions  he  endeavours  to  screen. 

Let  Junius  now,  if  he  pleases,  change  his  abuse;  and 
quitting  his  loose  hold  of  interest  and  revenge,  accuse  me  of 
vanity,  and  call  this  defence  boasting.  I  own  I  have  a  pride 
to  see  statues  decreed,  and  the  highest  honours  conferred 
for  measures  and  actions  which  all  men  have  approved: 
whilst  those  who  counselled  and  caused  them  are  execrated 
and  insulted.  The  darkness  in  which  Junius  thinks  himself 
shrouded  has  not  concealed  him;  nor  the  artifice  of  only  at- 
tacking under  that  signature  those  he  would  pull  down 
(whilst  he  recommends  by  other  ways  those  he  would  have 
promoted)  disguised  from  me  whose  partisan  he  is.  When 
Lord  Chatham  can  forgive  the  awkward  situation  in  which 
for  the  sake  of  the  public  he  was  designedly  placed  by  the 
thanks  to  him  from  the  city*:  and  when  Wilkes's  name  ceases 
to  be  necessary  to  Lord  Rockingham  to  keep  up  a  clamour 
against  the  persons  of  the  ministry,  without  obliging  the  dif- 
ferent factions  now  in  opposition  to  bind  themselves  before- 
hand to  some  certain  points,  and  to  stipulate  some  precise 
advantages  to  the  public;  then,  and  not  till  then,  may  those 
whom  he  now  abuses  expect  the  approbation  of  Junius.  The 
approbation  of  the  public  for  our  faithful  attention  to  their 
interest  by  endeavours  for  those  stipulations,  which  have 
made  us  as  obnoxious  to  the  factions  in  opposition  as  to 
those  in  administration,  is  not  perhaps  to  be  expected  till 
some  years  hence;  when  the  public  will  look  back  and  see 
how  shamefully  they  have  been  deluded;  and  by  what  arts 
they  were  made  to  lose  the  golden  opportunity  of  prevent- 
ing what  they  will  surely  experience,— a  change  of  minis- 
ters, without  a  material  change  of  measures,  and  without 
any  security  for  a  tottering  constitution. 

But  what  cares  Junius  for  the  security  of  the  constitu- 
tion? He  has  now  unfolded  to  us  his  diabolical  principles. 
As  a  public  man  he  must  ever  condemn  any  measure  which 
may  tend  even  accidentally  to  gratify  the  Sovereign:  aort 

'  See  note,  page  60.  Em  t 


54  LETTERS  OF 

Mr.  Wilkes  13  to  be  supported  and  assisted  in  all  his  attempts 
(no  matter  how  ridiculous  or  mischievous  his  projects)  as 
long  as  he  continues  to  be  a  thorn  in  the  King's  side! — The 
cause  of  the  country  it  seems,  in  the  opinion  of  Junius,  is 
merely  to  vex  the  King:  and  any  rascal  is  to  be  supported  in 
any  roguery,  provided  he  can  only  thereby  plant  a  thorn  in 
the  King's  side. — This  is  the  very  extremity  of  faction,  and 
the  last  degree  of  political  wickedness.  Because  Lord  Chat- 
ham has  been  ill-treated  by  the  King,  and  treacherously  be- 
trayed by  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  the  latter  is  to  be  "  the  pil- 
low on  which  Junius  will  rest  his  resentment!"  and  the 
public  are  to  oppose  the  measures  of  government  from  mere 
motives  of  personal  enmity  to  the  Sovereign? — These  are 
the  avowed  principles  of  the  man  who  in  the  same  letter 
says,  "  if  ever  he  should  be  convinced  that  I  had  no  motive 
but  to  destroy  Wilkes,  he  shall  then  be  ready  to  do  justice 
to  my  character,  and  to  declare  to  the  world  that  he  despises 
me  somewhat  less  than  he  does  at  present!"  Had  I  ever 
acted  from  personal  affection  or  enmity  to  Mr.  Wilkes^  1 
should  justly  be  despised:  but  what  does  he  deserve  whose 
avowed  motive  is  personal  enmity  to  the  Sovereign?  the 
contempt  which  I  should  otherwise  feel  for  the  absurdity 
and  glaring  inconsistency  of  Junius,  is  here  swallowed  up 
in  my  abhorrence  of  his  principle.  The  right  divine  and  sa- 
credness  of  Kings  is  to  me  a  senseless  jargon.  It  was  thought 
a  daring  expression  of  Oliver  Cromwell  in  the  time  of 
Charles  the  first,  that  if  he  found  himself  placed  opposite  to 
the  King  in  battle,  he  would  discharge  his  piece  into  his 
bosom  as  soon  as  into  any  other  man's.  I  go  farther:  had  I 
lived  in  those  days,  I  would  not  have  waited  for  chance  to 
give  an  opportunity  of  doing  my  duty;  I  would  have  sought 
him  through  the  ranks,  and  without  the  least  personal  en- 
mity, have  discharged  my  piece  into  his  bosom  rather  than 
into  any  other  man's*.  The  King,  whose  actions  justify  re- 

*  Mr.  Home  was  charged  with  having'  stolen  this  idea  from  a  note  ol 
Mr.  Wilkes,  annexed  to  that  passage  in  Clarendon,  to  which  the  writer 
here  more  particularly  alludes.  The  letter  is  short,  and,  as  it  also  explain', 
a  subsequent  fact,  it  ought  not  to  be  omitted. 


JUNIUS.  55 

bellion  to  his  government,  deserves  death  from  the  hand  of 
every  subject.  And  should  such  a  time  arrive,  I  shall  be  as 
free  to  act  as  to  say.  But  till  then,  my  attachment  to  the  per- 
son and  family  of  the  Sovereign  shall  ever  be  found  more 

For  the  Pttbiic  Advertiser. 
TO  THE  REV.  MR.  HORNE. 

Sir,  Aug.  6,  1771. 

You  declare  in  your  letter  to  Junius,  that  Mr.  Wilkes  told  the  Rock- 
ingham administration,  **  it  cost  me  a  year  and  a  half  to  write  down  the 
last  administration."  Unluckily  for  Mr.  Home  the  administration  said  to 
be  wrote  down  by  Mr.  Wilkes  did  not  last  one  year,  and  Mr.  Wilkes  is 
certainly  too  well  informed  to  have  made  so  gross  a  mistake.  Lord  Bute 
was  made  first  commissioner  of  the  treasury,  May  29,  1762,  and  resigned 
April  8,  1763.  The  North  Briton  made  its  first  appearance  June  5,  1762. 
The  paper  war  therefore  did  not  last  quite  one  year  before  the  enemy 
abandoned  the  capital  post  he  had  seized.  Mr.  Home  when  he  invents, 
should  be  careful  not  to  give  absurd  fictions.  I  am  acquainted  both  with 
Mr.  Wilkes  and  Mr.  Home.  It  is  amusing  to  observe  how  the  parson  has 
on  a  variety  of  occasions  purloined  from  the  alderman.  Many  of  their 
former  common  friends  have  been  amused  with  the  instances.  The  late 
passage  about  Cromwell  is  curious.  Mr.  Home  says,  "  it  was  thought  a 
daring  expression  of  Oliver  Cromwell,  &c."  Mr.  Wilkes  has  probably 
forgot  die  little  anecdote;  but  I  breakfasted  with  him  at  the  King's  Bench 
with  Mr.  Home,  who  copied  in  my  presence  the  following  note  from  Mr. 
Wilkes's  Clarendon,  which  I  likewise  preserved.  "  Cromwell  ought  to 
have  declared,  that  he  would  rather  chuse  to  single  out  the  King,  and  dis- 
charge his  pistol  upon  him,  as  the  first  author  of  the  guilt  of  a  civil  war, 
and  whose  death  then  might  probably  extinguish  it."  The  whole  passage 
of  Clarendon  is  so  curious,  your  readers  will  not  be  displeased  to  find  it  in 
your  paper.  "  Cromwell,  though  the  greatest  dissembler  living,  always 
made  his  hypocrisy  of  singular  use  and  benefit  to  him,  and  never  did  any 
thing,  how  ungracious  or  imprudent  soever  it  seemed  to  be,  but  what  was 
necessary  to  the  design;  even  his  roughness  and  unpolishedness,  which, 
in  the  beginning  of  the  parliament,  he  affected  contrary  to  the  smooth- 
ness and  complacency  which  his  cousin,  and  bosom  friend,  Mr.  Hambden, 
practised  towards  all  men,  was  necessary;  and  his  first  public  declaration, 
in  the  beginning  of  the  war,  to  his  troop  when  it  was  first  mustered,  that 
he  would  not  deceive  or  couzen  them  by  the  perplexed  and  involved  ex- 
pressions in  his  commission,  to  fight  for  King  and  Parliament;  and  there- 
fore told  them,  that  if  the  King  chanced  to  be  in  the  body  of  the  enemy 
that  he  was  to  charge,  he  would  as  soon  discharge  his  pistol  upon  him,  as 
any  other  private  person;  and  if  their  conscience  would  not  permit  them 
to  do  the  like,  he  advised  them  not  to  list  themselves  in  his  troop,  or  un- 
4er  his  command,  which  was  generally  looked  upon  as  imprudent  and  ma- 
licious, 


* 


56  LETTERS  OF 

zealous  and  sincere  than  that  of  his  flatterers.  I  would  of- 
fend the  Sovereign  with  as  much  reluctance  as  the  parent; 
but  if  the  happiness  and  security  of  the  whole  family  made 
it  necessary,  so  far  and  no  farther,  I  would  offend  him  with- 
out remorse. 

But  let  us  consider  a  little  whither  these  principles  of 
Junius  would  lead  us.  Should  Mr.  Wilkes  once  more  com- 
mission Mr.  Thomas  Walpole  to  procure  for  him  a  pension 
of  one  thousand  pounds  upon  the  Irish  establishment  for 
thirty  years;  he  must  be  supported  in  the  demand  by  the 
public — because  it  would  mortify  the  King! 

Should  he  wish  to  see  Lord  Rockingham  and  his  friends 
once  more  in  administration,  unclogged  by  any  stipulations 
for  the  people,  that  he  might  again  enjoy  a  pension  of  one 
thousand  and  forty  pounds  a  year,  viz.  From  the  first  lord 
of  the  treasury  300/.  From  the  lords  of  the  treasury  60/. 
each.  From  the  lords  of  trade  40/.  each*,  &c.  The  pub- 
lic  must    give   up  their    attention  to  points    of  national 

licious,  and  might,  by  the  professions  the  parliament  then  made,  have 
proved  dangerous  to  him,  yet  served  his  turn,  and  severed  from  others, 
and  united  among  themselves,  nil  the  furious  and  incensed  men  against 
the  government,  whether  ecclesiastical  or  civil,  to  look  upon  him  as  a  man 
for  their  turn,  upon  whom  they  might  depend,  as  one  who  would  go  through 
his  work  that  he  undertook." 

The  passage  I  have  quoted  from  Mr.  Home's  letter  appears  to  me  in 
flat  contradiction  lo  what  he  says  at  the  end  of  the  same  letter,  "  whoever 
or  whatever  is  Sovereign,  demands  the  respect  and  support  of  the  peo- 
ple." Is  it  possible  that  the  last  paragraph  could  be  written  by  the  same 
person,  who  printed  in  all  the  papers  that  the  King's  smiling  when  the  city 
remonstrance  was  presented,  reminded  him,  that  "  Nero  Addled  while 
Rome  was  burning?" 

I  am,  Sir, 

W.  B. 
£"  For  an  explanation  of  the  quotation,  see  p.  227  of  vol.  I.  Edit. 

*  The  Rockingham  party  had  consented  to  unite  with  the  Bedford  ad- 
ministration on  the  express  stipulation  of  a  reversal  of  the  proceedings 
against  Wilkes.  They  were  not,  however,  able  to  obtain  this  stipulation 
at  last;  and,  as  some,  indemnification  to  Wilkes  for  the  promise  they  had 
made  to  him  in  this  respect,  they  granted  him  a  pension  out  of  their  own 
calaric,  upon  the  proportions  stated  above,  with  which,  at  their  entreaty, 
he  again  returned  to  the  continent.  Edit. 


JUNIUS.  57 

benefit,  and  assist  Mr.  Wilkes  in  his  attempt — because  it 
would  mortify  the  King! 

Should  he  demand  the  government  of  Canada,  or  of  Ja- 
maica, or  the  embassy  to  Constantinople;  and  in  case  of  re- 
fusal threaten  to  write  them  down,  as  he  had  before  served 
another  administration,  in  a  year  and  a  half;  he  must  be  sup- 
ported in  his  pretensions,  and  upheld  in  his  insolence— 
because  it  would  mortify  the  King! 

Junius  may  chuse  to  suppose  that  these  things  cannot 
happen!  But  that  they  have  happened,  notwithstanding  Mr. 
Wilkes's  denial,  I  do  aver.  I  maintain  that  Mr.  Wilkes  did 
commission  Mr.  Thomas  Walpole  to  solicit  for  him  a  pen- 
sion of  one  thousand  pounds  on  the  Irish  establishment  for 
thirty  years;  with  which  and  a  pardon  he  declared  he  would 
be  satisfied:  and  that,  notwithstanding  his  letter  to  Mr.  Ons- 
low, he  did  accept  a  clandestine,  precarious  and  eleemosy- 
nary pension  from  the  Rockingham  administration*;  which 
they  paid  in  proportion  to  and  out  of  their  salaries;  and  so 
entirely  was  it  ministerial,  that  as  any  of  them  went  out  of 
the  ministry,  their  names  were  scratched  out  of  the  list,  and 
they  contributed  no  longer.  I  say,  he  did  solicit  the  govern- 
ments and  the  embassy,  and  threatened  their  refusal  nearly 
in  these  words — "  It  cost  me  a  year  and  a  half  to  write  down 
the  last  administration,  should  I  employ  as  much  time  upon 
you,  very  few  of  you  would  be  in  at  the  death."  When 
these  threats  did  not  prevail,  he  came  over  to  England  to 
embarrass  them  by  his  presence;  and  when  he  found  that 
Lord  Rockingham  was  something  firmer  and  more  manly 

than  he  expected,  and  refused  to  be  bullied into  what 

he  could  not  perform,  Mr.  Wilkes  declared  that  he  could 
not  leave  England  without  money;  and  the  Duke  of  Portland 
and  Lord  Rockingham  purchased  his  absence  with  one  hun- 
dred pounds  a  piece;  with  which  he  returned  to  Paris.  And 
for  the  truth  of  what  I  here  advance,  I  appeal  to  the  Duke 
of  Portland,  to  Lord  Rockingham,  to  Lord  John  Cavendish, 
to  Mr.  Walpole,  &c. — I  appeal  to  the  hand-writing  of  Mr. 
Wilkes,  which  is  still  extant. 

*  See  the  last  note,  which  states  the  pension  referred  to.  Edit 

Vol.  II.  H 


JB  LETTERS  OF 

Should  Mr.  Wilkes  afterwards  (failing  in  this  wholesale 
trade)  chuse  to  dole  out  his  popularity  by  the  pound,  and 
expose  the  city  offices  to  sale  to  his  brother,  his  attorney,  &c. 
Junius  will  tell  us,  it  is  only  an  ambition  that  he  has  to  make 
them  chamberlain,  town-clerk,  &c.  and  he  must  not  be  op- 
posed in  thus  robbing  the  ancient  citizens  of  their  birth- 
right  because  any  defeat  of  Mr.  Wilkes  would  gratify 

the  King! 

Should  he,  after  consuming  the  whole  of  his  own  fortune 
and  that  of  his  wife,  and  incurring  a  debt  of  twenty  thousand 
pounds  merely  by  his  own  private  extravagance,  without  a 
single  service  or  exertion  all  this  time  for  the  public,  whilst 
his  estate  remained;  should  he,  at  length,  being  undone, 
commence  patriot,  have  the  good  fortune  to  be  illegally  per- 
secuted, and  in  consideration  of  that  illegality  be  espoused 
by  a  few  gentlemen  of  the  purest  public  principles;  should 
his  debts,  (though  none  of  them  were  contracted  for  the  pub- 
lic) and  all  his  other  incumbrances  be  discharged;  should  he 
be  offered  600/.  or  1000/.  a  year  to  make  him  independent 
for  the  future;  and  should  he,  after  all,  instead  of  gratitude 
for  these  services,  insolently  forbid  his  benefactors  to  bestow 
their  own  money  upon  any  other  object  but  himself*,  and 
revile  them  for  setting  any  bounds  to  their  supplies;  Junius 
(who,  any  more  than  Lord  Chatham,  never  contributed  one 
farthing  to  these  enormous  expenses)  will  tell  them,  that  if 
they  think  of  converting  the  supplies  of  Mr.  Wilkes's  pri- 
vate extravagance  to  the  support  of  public  measures 

they  are  as  great  fools  as  my  grandmother;  and  that  Mr. 
Wilkes  ought  to  hold  the  strings  of  their  purses — as  long  as 
he  continues  to  be  a  thorn  in  the  King's  side! 

Upon  these  principles  I  never  have  acted,  and  I  never 
will  act.  In  my  opinion,  it  is  less  dishonourable  to  be  the 
creature  of  a  court  than  the  tool  of  a  faction.  I  will  not  be 
either.  I  understand  the  two  great  leaders  of  opposition  to 

*  The  quarrel  between  Mr.  Wilkes  and  Mr.  Home  originated  in  the 
mode  of  appropriating-  the  contributions  to  the  Bill  of  Rights  Society,  the 
funds  of  which  were  professedly  subscribed  for  the  purpose  of  paying  the 
debts  of  the  former.  Edit. 


JUNIUS.  59 

be  Lord  Rockingham  and  Lord  Chatham;  under  one  of 
whose  banners  all  the  opposing  members  of  both  Houses, 
who  desire  to  get  places,  enlist.  I  can  place  no  confidence  in 
either  of  them,  or  in  any  others,  unless  they  will  now  en- 
gage, whilst  they  are  out,  to  grant  certain  essential  advan- 
tages for  the  security  of  the  public  when  they  shall  be  in 
administration.  These  points  they  refuse  to  stipulate,  be- 
cause they  are  fearful  lest  they  should  prevent  any  future 
overtures  from  the  court.  To  force  them  to  these  stipula- 
tions has  been  the  uniform  endeavour  of  Mr.  Sawbridge, 
Mr.  Townshend,  Mr.  Oliver,  Sec.  and  therefore,  they 
are  abused  by  Junius.  I  know  no  reason  but  my  zeal  and 
industry  in  the  same  cause  that  should  intitle  me  to  the  ho- 
nour of  being  ranked  by  his  abuse  with  persons  of  their  for- 
tune and  station.  It  is  a  duty  I  owe  to  the  memory  of  the 
late  Mr.  Beckford  to  say,  that  he  had  no  other  aim  than 
this  when  he  provided  that  sumptuous  entertainment  at  the 
Mansion-house  for  the  members  of  both  Houses  in  opposi- 
tion*. At  that  time  he  drew  up  the  heads  of  an  engagement, 
which  he  gave  to  me  with  a  request  that  I  would  couch  it  in 
terms  so  cautious  and  precise,  as  to  leave  no  room  for  future 
quibble  and  evasion;  but  to  oblige  them  either  to  fulfil  the 
intent  of  the  obligation,  or  to  sign  their  own  infamy,  and 
leave  it  on  record;  and  this  engagement  he  was  determined 
to  propose  to  them  at  the  Mansion-house,  that  either  by 
their  refusal  they  might  forfeit  the  confidence  of  the  public, 
or  by  the  engagement  lay  a  foundation  for  confidence.  When 
they  were  informed  of  the  intention,  Lord  Rockingham  and 
his  friends  flatly  refused  any  engagement;  and  Mr.  Beck- 
ford  as  flatly  swore,  they  should  then — "  eat  none  of  his 
broth;"  and  he  was  determined  to  put  off  the  entertainment: 

But  Mr.  Beckford  was  prevailed  upon  by to  indulge 

them  in  the  ridiculous  parade  of  a  popular  procession  through 
the  city,  and  to  give  them  the  foolish  pleasure  of  an  imagi- 

*  On  the  22d  of  March,  1770,  at  which  forty-five  noblemen,  besides  a 
great  number  of  members  of  parliament,  and  other  persons  of  distinction, 
were  present.  Edit. 


(30  LETTERS  G£ 

nary  consequence,  for  the  real  benefit  only  of  the  cooks  and 
purveyors. 

It  was  the  same  motive  which  dictated  the  thanks  of  the 
city  to  Lord  Chatham;  which  were  expi*essed  to  be  given 
for  his  declaration  in  favour  of  short  parliaments ;*  in  order 

*  The  vote  of  thanks  and  answer  were  as  follow. 

At  a  Common  Council  holden  on  the  14th  of  May,  1770,  it  was  resolved, 
"  That  the  grateful  thanks  of  this  court  be  presented  to  the  Right  Hon. 
William  Earl  of  Chatham,  for  the  zeal  he  has  shewn  in  support  of  those 
most  valuable  and  sacred  privileges,  the  right  of  election,  and  the  right  of 
petition;  and  for  his  wishes  and  declaration,  that  his  endeavours  shall  here- 
after be  used  that  parliaments  may  be  restored  to  their  original  purity,  by 
shortening  their  duration,  and  introducing  a  more  full  and  equal  represen- 
tation; an  act  which  will  render  his  name  more  honoured  by  posterity, 
than  the  memorable  successes  of  the  glorious  war  he  conducted." 

To  this  vote  of  thanks  the  Eai-1  of  Chatham  made  the  following  reply 
to  the  committee  deputed  to  present  it  to  his  Lordship. 
"  Gentlemen, 
"  It  is  not  easy  for  me  to  give  expression  to  all  I  feel,  on  the  extraordi- 
nary honour  done  to  my  public  conduct  by  the  City  of  London;  a  body  so 
highly  respectable  on  every  account,  but  above  all,  for  their  constant  as- 
sertion of  the  birthrights  of  Englishmen,  in  every  great  crisis  of  the  consti- 
tution. 

"  In  our  present  unhappy  situation,  my  duty  shall  be,  on  all  proper  oc- 
casions, to  add  the  zealous  endeavours  of  an  individual  to  those  legal  ex- 
ertions of  constitutional  rights,  which,  to  their  everlasting  honour,  the 
City  of  London  has  made,  in  defence  of  freedom  of  election  and  freedom 
of  petition,  and  for  obtaining  effectual  reparation  to  the  electors  of  Great 
Britain. 

"  As  to  the  point  among  the  declarations  which  I  am  understood  to 
have  made,  of  my  wishes  for  the  public,  permit  me  to  say  there  has  been 
some  misapprehension,  for  with  all  my  deference  to  the  sentiments  of  the 
City,  I  am  bound  to  declare,  that  I  cannot  recommend  triennial  parlia- 
ments as  a  remedy  against  that  canker  of  the  constitution,  venality  in  elec- 
tions; ready  to  submit  my  opinion  to  better  judgment,  if  the  wish  for  that 
measure  shall  become  prevalent  in  the  kingdom.  Purity  of  parliament  is 
the  corner-stone  in  the  commonwealth;  and  as  one  obvious  means  towards 
this  necessary  end  is  to  strengthen  and  extend  the  natural  relation  between 
the  constituents  and  the  elected,  I  have,  in  this  view,  publicly  expressed 
my  earnest  wishes  for  a  more  full  and  equal  representation,  by  the  addi- 
tion of  one  knight  of  the  shire  in  a  county,  as  a  further  balance  to  the  mer- 
cenary boroughs. 

**  I  have  thrown  out  this  idea  with  the  just  diffidence  of  a  private  man, 
•when  he  presumes  to  suggest  any  thing  new  on  a  high  matter.  Animated 
by  your  approbation,  I  shall  with  better  hope  continue  humbly  to  submit 

it 


JUNIUS.  61 

thereby  to  fix  Lord  Chatham  at  least  to  that  one  constitu- 
tional remedy,  without  which  all  others  can  afford  no  secu- 
rity. The  embarrassment  no  doubt  was  cruel.  He  had  his 
choice,  either  to  offend  the  Rockingham  party,  who  declared 
formally  against  short  parliaments,  and  with  the  assistance 
of  whose  numbers  in  both  Houses  he  must  expect  again  to 
be  minister;  or  to  give  up  the  confidence  of  the  public,  from 
whom  finally  all  real  consequence  must  proceed.  Lord  Chat- 
ham chose  the  latter:  and  I  will  venture  to  say,  that,  by  his 
answer  to  those  thanks,  he  has  given  up  the  people  without 
gaining  the  friendship  or  cordial  assistance  of  the  Rocking- 
ham faction;  whose  little  politics  are  confined  to  the  making 
of  matches,  and  extending  their  family  connections,  and  who 
think  they  gain  more  by  procuring  one  additional  vote  to 
their  party  in  the  House  of  Commons,  than  by  adding  to 
their  languid  property  and  feeble  character,  to  the  abilities 
of  a  Chatham,  or  the  confidence  of  a  public. 

Whatever  may  be  the  event  of  the  present  wretched  state 
of  politics  in  this  country,  the  principles  of  Junius  will  suit 
no  form  of  government.  They  are  not  to  be  tolerated  under 
any  constitution.  Personal  enmity  is  a  motive  fit  only  for 
the  devil.  Whoever  or  whatever  is  Sovereign,  demands  the 
respect  and  support  of  the  people.  The  union  is  formed  for 
their  happiness,  which  cannot  be  had  without  mutual 
respect;  and  he  counsels  maliciously  who  would  persuade 

it  to  the  public  wisdom,  as  an  object  most  deliberately  to  be  weighed,  ac 
curately  examined,  and  maturely  digested. 

"  Having  many  times,  when  in  the  service  of  the  crown,  and  when  re- 
tired from  it,  experienced,  with  gratitude,  the  favour  of  my  fellow  citizens, 
I  am  now  particularly  fortunate,  that,  with  their  good  liking,  I  can  offer 
any  thing  towards  upholding  this  wisely-combined  frame  of  mixed  govern- 
ment against  the  decays  of  time,  and  the  deviations  incident  to  all  human 
institutions;  and  I  shall  esteem  my  life  honoured  indeed,  if  the  City  of 
London  can  vouchsafe  to  think  that  my  endeavours  have  not  been  want- 
ing to  maintain  the  national  honour,  to  defend  the  colonies,  and  extend  the 
commercial  greatness  of  my  country,  as  well  as  to  preserve  from  violation 
:he  law  of  the  land,  and  the  essential  rights  of  the  constitution." 

On  the  subject  of  triennial  parliaments,  Lord  Chatham  appears  subse- 
quently to  have  changed  his  opinion,  as  will  be  seen  by  a  reference  to  Edi 
tor's  note  to  Letter  xliv.  Edit. 


62  LETTERS  OF 

either  to  a  wanton  breach  of  it.  When  it  is  banished  by 
either  party,  and  when  every  method  has  been  tried  in  vain 
to  restore  it,  there  is  no  remedy  but  a  divorce:  but  even  then 
he  must  have  a  hard  and  a  wicked  heart  indeed  who  pu- 
nishes the  greatest  criminal  merely  for  the  sake  of  the  pu- 
nishment; and  who  does  not  let  fall  a  tear  for  every  drop  of 
blood  that  is  shed  in  a  public  struggle,  however  just  the 
quarrel. 

JOHN  HORNE. 


LETTER  LIV. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF   THE  PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  13  Aug.  1771. 

I  ought  to  make  an  apology  to  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  for 
suffering  any  part  of  my  attention  to  be  diverted  from  his 
Grace  to  Mr.  Home.  I  am  not  justified  by  the  similarity  of 
their  dispositions.  Private  vices,  however  detestable,  have 
not  dignity  sufficient  to  attract  the  censure  of  the  press, 
unless  they  are  united  with  the  power  of  doing  some  signal 
mischief  to  the  community. — Mr.  Home's  situation  does  not 
correspond  with  his  intentions. — In  my  own  opinion,  (which 
I  know,  will  be  attributed  to  my  usual  vanity  and  presump- 
tion) his  letter  to  me  does  not  deserve  an  answer.  But  I 
understand  that  the  public  are  not  satisfied  with  my  silence; 
— that  an  answer  is  expected  from  me,  and  that  if  I  persist 
in  refusing  to  plead,  it  will  be  taken  for  conviction.  I  should 
be  inconsistent  with  the  principles  I  profess,  if  I  declined 
an  appeal  to  the  good  sense  of  the  people,  or  did  not  willing- 
ly submit  myself  to  the  judgment  of  my  peers. 

If  any  coarse  expressions  have  escaped  me,  I  am  ready  to 
agree  that  they  are  unfit  for  Junius  to  make  use  of,  but 
I  see  no  reason  to  admit  that  they  have  been  improperly 
applied. 

Mr.  Home,  it  seems,  is  unable  to  comprehend  how  an  ex- 
treme want  of  conduct  and  discretion  can  consist  with  the 
abilities  I  have  allowed  him;  nor  can  he  conceive  that  a  very 
honest  man,  with  a  very  good  understanding,  may  be  de- 


JUNIUS.  63 

ceived  by  a  knave.  His  knowledge  of  human  nature  must  be 
limited  indeed.  Had  he  never  mixed  with  the  world,  one 
would  think  that  even  his  books  might  have  taught  him  bet- 
ter. Did  he  hear  Lord  Mansfield,  when  he  defended  his 
doctrine  concerning  libels? — Or  when  he  stated  the  law  in 
prosecutions  for  criminal  conversation? — Or  when  he  deli- 
vered his  reasons  for  calling  the  House  of  Lords  together 
to  receive  a  copy  of  his  charge  to  the  jury  in  Woodfall's 
trial*? — Had  he  been  present  upon  any  of  these  occasions, 
he  would  have  seen  how  possible  it  is  for  a  man  of  the  first 
talents,  to  confound  himself  in  absurdities,  which  would  dis- 
grace the  lips  of  an  idiot.  Perhaps  the  example  might  have 
taught  him  not  to  value  his  own  understanding  so  highly. — 
Lord  Littleton's  integrity  and  judgment  are  unquestionable; 
•—yet  he  is  known  to  admire  that  cunning  Scotchman,  and 
verily  believes  him  an  honest  man. — I  speak  to  facts,  with 
which  all  of  us  are  conversant, — I  speak  to  men  and  to  their 
experience,  and  will  not  descend  to  answer  the  little  sneering 
sophistries  of  a  collegian.— Distinguished  talents  are  not 
necessarily  connected  with  discretion.  If  there  be  any  thing 
remarkable  in  the  character  of  Mr.  Home,  it  is  that  extreme 
want  of  judgment  should  be  united  with  his  very  moderate 
capacity.  Yet  I  have  not  forgotten  the  acknowledgment  I 
made  him.  He  owes  it  to  my  bounty;  and  though  his  letter 
has  lowered  him  in  my  opinion,  I  scorn  to  retract  the 
charitable  donation. 

I  said  it  would  be  very  difficult  for  Mr.  Home  to  write 
directly  in  defence  of  a  ministerial  measure,  and  not  be  de- 
tected; and  even  that  difficulty  I  confined  to  his  particular 
situation.  He  changes  the  terms  of  the  proposition,  and  sup- 
poses me  to  assert,  that  it  would  be  impossible  for  any  man  to 
write  for  the  news-papers  and  not  be  discovered. 

He  repeatedly  affirms,  or  intimates  at  least,  that  he  knows 
the  author  of  these  letters. — With  what  colour  of  truth  then 
can  he  pretend  that  I  am  no  where  to  be  encountered  but  in  a 
news-paper? — I  shall  leave  him  to  his  suspicions.  It  is  not 
necessary  that  I  should  confide  in  the  honour  or  discretion 

*  See  note  in  p.  25  of  this  volume.  Edit 


64  LETTERS  Ol 

of  a  man,  who  already  seems  to  hate  me  with  as  much  ran- 
cour,  as  if  I  had  formerly  been  his  friend. — But  he  asserts 
that  he  has  traced  me  through  a  variety  of  signatures.  To 
make  the  discovery  of  any  importance  to  his  purpose,  he 
should  have  proved,  either  that  the  fictitious  character  of 
Junius  has  not  been  consistently  supported,  or  that  the  au- 
thor has  maintained  different  principles  under  different  sig- 
natures.— I  cannot  recall  to  my  memory  the  numberless 
trifles  I  have  written; — but  I  rely  upon  the  consciousness  of 
my  own  integrity,  and  defy  him  to  fix  any  colourable  charge 
of  inconsistency  upon  me. 

I  am  not  bound  to  assign  the  secret  motives  of  his  appa- 
rent hatred  of  Mr.  Wilkes:  nor  does  it  follow  that  I  may  not 
judge  fairly  of  his  conduct,  though  it  were  true,  that  I  had 
no  conduct  of  my  own. — Mr.  Home  enlarges,  with  rapture, 
upon  the  importance  of  his  services; — the  dreadful  battles 
which  he  might  have  been  engaged  in,  and  the  dangers  he 
has  escaped. — In  support  of  the  formidable  description,  he 
quotes  verses  without  mercy.  The  gentleman  deals  in  fiction, 
and  naturally  appeals  to  the  evidence  of  the  poets. — Taking 
him  at  his  word,  he  cannot  but  admit  the  superiority  of  Mr. 
Wilkes  in  this  line  of  service.  On  one  side  we  see  nothing 
but  imaginary  distresses.  On  the  other  we  see  real  prosecu- 
tions;— real  penalties; — real  imprisonment; — life  repeatedly 
hazarded;  and,  at  one  moment,  almost  the  certainty  of 
death*.  Thanks  are  undoubtedly  due  to  every  man  who  does 
his  duty  in  the  engagement;  but  it  is  the  wounded  soldier 
who  deserves  the  reward. 

I  did  not  mean  to  deny  that  Mr.  Home  had  been  an  active 
partisan.  It  would  defeat  my  own  purpose  not  to  allow  him 
a  degree  of  merit,  which  aggravates  his  guilt.  The  very 
charge  of  contributing'  his  utmost  efforts  to  support  a  minis- 
terial  measure^  implies  an  acknowledgment  of  his  former 
services.  If  he  had  not  once  been  distinguished  by  his  appa- 
rent zeal  in  defence  of  the  common  cause,  he  could  not  now 
be  distinguished  by  deserting  it. — As  for  myself,  it  is  no 

*  For  an  explanation  of  the  subjects  here  alluded  to,  see  the  Editor's 
note  to  Letter  xlvi.  p.  15  of  this  vol.   Edit. 


JUNIUS.  65 

longer  a  question  whether  I  shall  mix  with  the  throng,  and 
take  a  single  share  in  the  danger.  Whenever  Junius  appears, 
he  must  encounter  a  host  of  enemies.  But  is  there  no  honour- 
able wav  to  serve  the  public,  without  engaging  in  personal 
quarrels  with  insignificant  individuals,  or  submitting  to  the 
drudgery  of  canvassing  votes  for  an  election?  Is  there  no 
merit  in  dedicating  my  life  to  the  information  of  my  fellow 
subjects? — What  public  question  have  I  declined,  what  vil- 
lain have  f  spared.' — Is  there  no  labour  in  the  composition 
of  these  letters?  Mr.  Home,  I  fear,  is  partial  to  me,  and 
measures  the  facility  of  my  writings,  by  the  fluency  of  his 
own. 

He  talks  to  us,  in  high  terms,  of  the  gallant  feats  be  would 
have  performed,  if  he  had  lived  in  the  last  century.  The  un- 
happy Charles  could  hardly  have  escaped  him.  But  living 
princes  have  a  claim  to  his  attachment  and  respect.  Upon 
these  terms,  there  is  no  danger  in  being  a  patriot.  If  he 
means  any  thing  more  than  a  pompous  rhapsody,  let  us  try 
how  well  his  argument  holds  together.— I  presume  he  is  not 
yet  so  much  a  courtier  as  to  affirm  that  the  constitution  has 
not  been  grossly  and  daringly  violated  under  the  present 
reign.  He  will  not  say,  that  the  laws  have  not  been  shame- 
fully broken  or  perverted; — that  the  rights  of  the  subject 
have  not  been  invaded,  or  that  redress  has  not  been  repeat- 
edly solicited  and  refused. — Grievances  like  these  were  the 
foundation  of  the  rebellion  in  the  last  century,  and,  if  I  un- 
derstand Mr.  Home,  they  would,  at  that  period,  have  justi- 
fied him  to  his  own  mind,  in  deliberately  attacking  the  lite  of 
his  Sovereign.  I  shall  not  ask  him  to  what  political  constitu- 
tion this  doctrine  can  be  reconciled.  But,  at  least,  it  is  in- 
cumbent upon  him  to  shew,  that  the  present  King  has  better 
excuses  than  Charles  the  first,  for  the  errors  of  his  govern- 
ment. He  ought  to  demonstrate  to  us  that  the  constitution 
was  better  understood  a  hundred  years  ago  than  ic  is  at  pre- 
sent;—that  the  legal  rights  of  the  subject,  and  the  limits  of 
the  prerogative  were  more  accurately  defined,  and  more 
clearly  comprehended.  If  propositions  like  these  cannot  be 
fairly  maintained,  I  do  not  see  how  he  can  reconcile  it  to  his 

Vol.  II.  I 


66  LETTERS  OF 

conscience,  not  to  act  immediately  with  the  same  freedom 
with  which  he  speaks.  I  reverence  the  character  of  Charles 
the  first  as  little  as  Mr.  Home;  but  I  will  not  insult  his  mis- 
fortunes by  a  comparison  that  would  degrade  him. 

It  is  worth  observing,  by  what  gentle  degrees,  the  furious, 
persecuting  zeal  of  Mr.  Home  has  softened  into  moderation. 
Men  and  measures  were  yesterday  his  object.  What  pains 
did  he  once  take  to  bring  that  great  state  criminal  Macquirk 
to  execution! — To-day  he  confines  himself  to  measures  only. 
—No  penal  example  is  to  be  left  to  the  successors  of  the 
Duke  of  Grafton. — To-morrow,  I  presume  both  men  and 
measures  will  be  forgiven.  The  flaming  patriot,  who  so  lately 
scorched  us  in  the  meridian,  sinks  temperately  to  the  west, 
and  is  hardly  felt  as  he  descends. 

I  comprehend  the  policy  of  endeavouring  to  communicate 
to  Mr.  Oliver  and  Mr.  Sawbridge,  a  share  in  the  reproaches, 
with  which  he  supposes  me  to  have  loaded  him.  My  memo- 
ry fails  me,  if  I  have  mentioned  their  names  with  disrespect; 
— unless  it  be  reproachful  to  acknowledge  a  sincere  respect 
for  the  character  of  Mr.  Sawbridge,  and  not  to  have  ques- 
tioned the  innocence  of  Mr.  Oliver's  intentions. 

It  seems  I  am  a  partisan  of  the  great  leader  of  the  opposi- 
tion. If  the  charge  had  been  a  reproach,  it  should  have  been 
better  supported.  I  did  not  intend  to  make  a  public  declara- 
tion of  the  respect  I  bear  Lord  Chatham.  I  well  knew  what 
unworthy  conclusions  would  be  drawn  from  it.  But  I  am 
called  upon  to  deliver  my  opinion,  and  surely  it  is  not  in  the 
little  censure  of  Mr.  Home  to  deter  me  from  doing  signal 
justice  to  a  man,  who,  I  confess,  has  grown  upon  my  es- 
teem*. As  for  the  common,  sordid  views  of  avarice,  or  any 
purpose  of  vulgar  ambition,  I  question  whether  the  applause 
of  Junius  would  be  of  service  to  Lord  Chatham.  My  vote 
will  hardly  recommend  him  to  an  increase  of  his  pension,  or 
to  a  seat  in  the  cabinet.  But  if  his  ambition  be  upon  a  level 
with  his  understanding; — if  he  judges  of  what  is  truly  ho- 
nourable for  himself,  with  the  same  superior  genius,  which 

*  See  the  Author's  opinion  of  Lord  Chatham  in  Private  Letter  of  Oct. 
19,1770.  No.  23.  Edit 


JUNIUS.  67 

animates  and  directs  him,  to  eloquence  in  debate,  to  wisdom 
in  decision,  even  the  pen  of  Junius  shall  contribute  to  re- 
ward him.  Recorded  honours  shall  gather  round  his  monu- 
ment, and  thicken  over  him.  It  is  a  solid  fabric,  and  will 
support  the  laurels  that  adorn  it. — I  am  not  conversant  in  the 
language  of  panegyric. — These  praises  are  extorted  from  me; 
but  they  will  wear  well,  for  they  have  been  dearly  earned. 

My  detestation  of  the  Duke  of  Grafton  is  not  founded 
upon  his  treachery  to  any  individual:  though  I  am  willing 
enough  to  suppose  that,  in  public  affairs,  it  would  be  impos- 
sible to  desert  or  betray  Lord  Chatham,  without  doing  an 
essential  injury  to  this  country.  My  abhorrence  of  the  Duke 
arises  from  an  intimate  knowledge  of  his  character,  and  from 
a  thorough  conviction,  that  his  baseness  has  been  the  cause 
of  greater  mischief  to  England,  than  even  the  unfortunate 
ambition  of  Lord  Bute. 

The  shortening  the  duration  of  parliaments  is  a  subject  on 
which  Mr.  Home  cannot  enlarge  too  warmly;  nor  will  I 
question  his  sincerity.  If  I  did  not  profess  the  same  senti- 
ments, I  should  be  shamefully  inconsistent  with  myself.  It  is 
unnecessary  to  bind  Lord  Chatham  by  the  written  formality 
of  an  engagement.  He  has  publicly  declared  himself  a  con- 
vert to  Triennial  Parliaments*;  and  though  I  have  long  been 
convinced  that  this  is  the  only  possible  resource  we  have  left 
to  preserve  the  substantial  freedom  of  the  constitution,  I  do 
not  think  we  have  a  right  to  determine  against  the  integrity 
of  Lord  Rockingham  or  his  friends.  Other  measures  may 
undoubtedly  be  supported  in  argument,  as  better  adapted  to 
the  disorder,  or  more  likely  to  be  obtained. 

Mr.  Home  is  well  assured,  that  I  never  was  the  champion 
of  Mr.  Wilkes.  But  though  I  am  not  obliged  to  answer  for 
the  firmness  of  his  future  adherence  to  the  principles  he  pro- 
fesses, I  have  no  reason  to  presume  that  he  will  hereafter 
disgrace  them.  As  for  all  those  imaginary  cases,  which  Mr. 
Home  so  petulantly  urges  against  me,  I  have  one   plain, 

*  For  Lord  Chatham's  previous  opinion  of  Triennial  Parliaments,  see 
Editor's  note  to  the  preceding  Letter,  and  for  his  declaration  in  favour  of 
them,  Editor's  note  to  Letter  xliv.  p.  10,  of  this  vol.  Edit. 


68  LETTERS  OF 

honest  answer  to  make  to  him. — Whenever  Mr.  Wilkes 
shall  be  convicted  of  soliciting  a  pension,  an  embass\ ,  or  a 
government,  he  must  depart  from  that  situation,  and  re- 
nounce that  character,  which  he  assumes  at  present,  and 
which,  in  my  opinion,  intitle  him  to  the  support  of  the  public. 
Bv  the  same  act,  and  at  the  same  moment,  he  will  forfeit  his 
power  of  mortifying  the  King;  and  though  he  can  never  be  a 
favourite  at  St.  James's,  his  baseness  may  administer  a  solid 
satisfaction  to  the  royal  mind.  The  man,  I  speak  of,  has  not 
a  heart  to  feel  for  the  frailties  of  his  fellow  creatures.  It  is 
their  virtues  that  afflict,  it  is  their  vices  that  console  him. 

I  give  every  possible  advantage  to  Mr.  Home,  when  I 
take  the  facts  he  refers  to  for  granted.  That  they  are  the  pro- 
duce of  his  invention,  seems  highly  probable;  that  they  are 
exaggerated  I  have  no  doubt.  At  the  worst,  what  do  they 
amount  to,  but  that  Mr.  Wilkes,  who  never  was  thought  of 
as  a  perfect  pattern  of  morality,  has  not  been  at  all  times 
proof  against  the  extremity  of  distress*.  How  shameful  is 
it,  in  a  man  who  has  lived  in  friendship  with  him,  to  reproach 
him  with  failings,  too  naturallv  connected  with  despair!  Is  no 
allowance  to  be  made  for  banishment  and  ruin?  Does  a  two 
years' imprisonment  make  no  atonement  for  his  crimes?— 
The  resentment  of  a  priest  is  implacable.  No  sufferings  can 
soften,  no  penitence  can  appease  him.-— Yet  he  himself,  I 
think,  upon  his  own  system,  has  a  multitude  of  political 
offences  to  atone  for.  I  will  not  insist  upon  the  nauseous  de- 
tail, with  which  he  so  long  disgusted  the  public.  He  seems 
to  be  ashamed  of  it.  But  what  excuse  will  he  make  to  the 
friends  of  the  constitution  for  labouring  to  promote  this  con- 
summately bad  man  to  a  station  of  the  highest  national  trust 
and  importance?  Upon  what  honourable  motives  did  he  re- 
commend him  to  the  livery  of  London  for  their  representa- 
tive;— to  the  ward  of  Farringdon  for  their  alderman; — to  the 
county  of  Middlesex  for  their  knight?  Will  he  affirm  that,  at 
that  time,  he  was  ignorant  of  Mr.  Wilkes's  solicitations  to 
the  ministry? — That  he  should  saj  so,  is  indeed  very  neces- 

*  For  Mr.  Wilkes's  defence  of  himself  against  the  charges  of  Mr.  Home, 
see  the  note,  p.  38,  of  this  vol.  Edit. 


JUNIUS.  69 

sarv  for  his  own  justification,  but  where  will  he  find  credulity 
to  believe  him? 

In  what  school  this  gentleman  learned  his  ethics  I  know 
not.  His  logic  seems  to  have  been  studied  under  Mr.  Dyson. 
Tbat  miserable  pamphleteer,  by  dividing  the  only  precedent 
in  point,  and  taking  as  much  of  it  as  suited  his  purpose,  had 
reduced  his  argument  upon  the  Middlesex  election  to  some- 
thing like  the  shape  of  a  syllogism.  Mr.  Home  has  conduct- 
ed  himself  with  the  same  ingenuity  and  candour.  I  had 
affirmed  that  Mr.  Wilkes  would  preserve  the  public  favour, 
M  as  long  as  he  stood  forth  against  a  ministry  and  parliament, 
who  were  doing  every  thing  thev  could  to  enslave  the  coun- 
try, and  as  long  as  he  was  a  thorn  in  the  King's  side."  Yet 
from  the  exulting  triumph  of  Mr.  Home's  reply,  one  would 
think  that  I  had  rested  my  expectation,  that  Mr.  Wilkes 
would  be  supported  by  the  public,  upon  the  single  cond  tion 
of  his  mortifying  the  King.  This  mav  be  logic  at  Cambridge 
or  at  the  Treasury,  but  among  men  of  sense  and  honour,  it  is 
folly  or  villany  in  the  extreme. 

I  see  the  pitiful  advantage  he  has  taken  of  a  single  un- 
guarded expression,  in  a  letter  not  intended  for  the  public. 
Yet  it  is  only  the  expression  that  is  unguarded.  I  adhere  to 
the  true  meaning  of  that  member  of  the  sentence,  taken  se- 
parately as  he  takes  it,  and  now,  upon  the  coolest  delibera- 
tion, re-assert  that,  for  the  purposes  I  referred  to,  it  may  be 
highly  meritorious  to  the  public,  to  wound  the  personal  feel- 
ings of  the  Sovereign.  It  is  not  a  general  proposition,  nor  is 
it  generally  applied  to  the  chief  magistrate  of  this,  or  any 
other  constitution.  Mr.  Home  knows  as  well  as  I  do,  that  the 
best  of  princes  is  not  displeased  with  the  abuse,  which  he 
sees  thrown  upon  his  ostensible  ministers.  It  makes  them,  I 
presume,  more  properly  the  objects  of  his  royal  compassion; 
—neither  does  it  escape  his  sagacity,  that  the  lower  they  are 
degraded  in  the  public  esteem,  the  more  submissively  they 
must  depend  upon  his  favour  for  protection.  This,  I  affirm 
upon  the  most  solemn  conviction,  and  the  most  certain 
knowledge,  is  a  leading  maxim  in  the  policy  of  the  closet.  It 
is  uunecessary  to  pursue  the  argument  any  farther. 


70  LETTERS  OF 

Mr.  Home  is  now  a  very  loyal  subject.  He  laments  the 
wretched  state  of  politics  in  this  country,  and  sees,  in  a  new 
iight,  the  weakness  and  folly  of  the  opposition.  Whoever  or 
ivhatever  is  Sovereign  demands  the  retpect  and  support  of  the 
people*,  it  was  not  so,  when  Nero  fiddled  while  jRome  was 
burning].  Our  gracious  Sovereign  has  had  wonderful  suc- 
cess, in  creating  new  attachments  to  his  person  and  family* 
He  owes  it,  I  presume,  to  the  regular  system  he  has  pursued 
in  the  mystery  of  conversion.  He  began  with  an  experiment 
upon  the  Scotch,  and  concludes  with  converting  Mr.  Home. 
—What  a  pity  it  is,  that  the  Jews  should  be  condemned  by 
Providence  to  wait  for  a  Messiah  of  their  own! 

The  priesthood  are  accused  of  misinterpreting  the  scrip- 
tures. Mr.  Home  has  improved  upon  his  profession.  He 
alters  the  text,  and  creates  a  refutable  doctrine  of  his  own. 
Such  artifices  cannot  long  delude  the  understanding  of  the 
people;  and  without  meaning  an  indecent  comparison,  I  may 
venture  to  foretel,  that  the  Bible  and  Junius  will  be  read, 
when  the  commentaries  of  the  Jesuits  are  forgotten. 

JUNIUS*. 


LETTER  LV. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE   PUBLIC  ADVERTISER. 

Sir,  26  Aug.  1771. 

The  enemies  of  the  people,  having  now  nothing  better  to 
object  to  my  friend  Junius,  are  at  last  obliged  to  quit  his  poli- 
tics and  to  rail  at  him  for  crimes  he  is  not  guilty  of.  His  vanity 
and  impiety  are  now  the  perpetual  topics  of  their  abuse.  I 
do  not  mean  to  lessen  the  force  of  such  charges,  (supposing 
they  were  true,)  but  to  shew  that  they  are  not  founded.  If  I 

*  The  very  soliloquy  of  Lord  Suffolk,  before  he  passed  the  Rubicon. — 
Author. 

f  This  forms  a  sentence  of  Home's  own  writing; — and  was  one  of  his 
bitterest  sarcasms  against  the  King.  But  see  Editor's  Note,  p.  227  of  Vol. 
I.  Edi  r. 

*  In  Private  Note,  No.  37,  Junius  says  "if  Mr.  Home  answers  this 
Letter  handsomely  and  in  point,  he  shall  be  my  great  Apollo."  Edit. 


JUNIUS.  71 

admitted  the  premises,  I  should  readily  agree  in  all  the  con« 
sequences  drawn  from  them.  Vanity  indeed  is  a  venial  error, 
for  it  usually  carries  its  own  punishment  with  it; — but  if  I 
thought  Junius  capable  of  uttering  a  disrespectful  word  of 
the  religion  of  his  country,  I  should  be  the  first  to  renounce 
and  give  him  up  to  the  public  contempt  and  indignation.  As 
a  man,  I  am  satisfied  that  he  is  a  Christian  upon  the  most 
sincere  conviction.  As  a  writer,  he  would  be  grossly  incon- 
sistent with  his  political  principles,  if  he  dared  to  attack  a 
religion  established  by  those  laws,  which  it  seems  to  be  the 
purpose  of  his  life  to  defend. — Now  for  the  proofs. — Junius 
is  accused  of  an  impious  allusion  to  the  holy  sacrament,  where 
he  says  that,  if  Lord  Weymouth  be  denied  the  cup,  there  will 
be  no  keeping  him.  within  the  pale  of  the  ministry.  Now,  Sir, 
I  affirm  that  this  passage  refers  entirely  to  a  ceremonial  in 
the  Roman  Catholic  church,  which  denies  the  cup  to  the 
laity.  It  has  no  manner  of  relation  to  the  Protestant  creed, 
and  is  in  this  country  as  fair  an  object  of  ridicule  as  transub- 
stantiation,  or  any  other  part  of  Lord  Peter's  history  in  the 
Tale  of  the  Tub. 

But  Junius  is  charged  with  equal  vanity  and  impiety,  in 
comparing  his  writings  to  the  holy  scripture. — The  formal 
protest  he  makes  against  any  such  comparison,  avails  him 
nothing.  It  becomes  necessary  then  to  shew  that  the  charge 
destroys  itself. — If  he  be  vain,  he  cannot  be  impious.  A  vain 
man  does  not  usually  compare  himself  to  an  object,  which  it 
is  his  design  to  undervalue.  On  the  other  hand,  if  he  be  im- 
pious, he  cannot  be  vain.  For  his  impiety,  if  any,  must  con- 
sist in  his  endeavouring  to  degrade  the  holy  scriptures  by  a 
comparison  with  his  own  contemptible  writings.  This  would 
be  folly  indeed  of  the  grossest  nature,  but  where  lies  the 
vanity? — I  shall  now  be  told,—"  Sir,  what  you  say  is  plausi- 
ble enough,  but  still  you  must  allow  that  it  is  shamefully  im- 
pudent in  Junius  to  tell  us  that  his  works  will  live  as  long  as 
the  Bible."  My  answer  is.  Agreed:  but  first  prove  that  he 
has  said  so.  Look  at  his  words,  and  you  will  find  that  the 
utmost  he  expects  is,  that  the  Bible  and  Junius  will  survive 
the  commentaries  of  the  Jesuits,  which  may  prove  true  in  a 


72  LETTERS  OF 

fortnight.  The  most  malignant  sagacity  cannot  shew  that  his 
works  are,  in  his  opinion,  to  live  as  long  as  the  Bible. — Sup- 
pose I  were  to  foretel  that  Jack  and  Tom  would  survive 
Harry. — Does  it  follow  that  Jack  must  live  as  long  as  Tom? 
I  would  only  illustrate  my  meaning  and  protest  against  the 
least  idea  of  profaneness. 

Yjt  this  is  the  wav  in  which  Junius  is  usuallv  answered, 
arraigned  and  convicted.  These  candid  critics  never  remem- 
ber any  thing  he  says  in  honour  of  our  holy  religion;  though 
it  is  true  that  one  of  his  leading  arguments  is  made  to  rest 
upon  the  internal  evidence  -which  the  purest  of  all  religions 
carries  rvith  it.  I  quote  his  words,  and  conclude  from  them, 
that  he  is  a  true  and  hearty  Christian,  in  substance,  not  in 
ceremony;  though  possibly  he  may  not  agree  with  my  Reve- 
rend L'>rds  the  Bishops,  or  with  the  Head  of  the  Church, 
that  prayers  are  morality,  or  that  kneeling  is  religion. 

PHILO  JUNIUS, 


LETTER  LVI. 

FROM  THE  REV.  MR.  HORNE  TO  JUNIUS. 

16  August,  1771. 

I  congratulate  you,  Sir,  on  the  recovery  of  your  wont- 
ed stile,  though  it  has  cost  you  a  fortnight.  I  compassionate 
your  labour  in  the  composition  of  your  letters,  and  will  com- 
municate to  you  the  secret  of  my  fluency. — Truth  needs  no 
ornament;  and,  in  my  opinion,  what  she  borrows  of  the  pen- 
cil is  deformity. 

You  brought  a  positive  charge  against  me  of  corruption.  I 
denied  the  charge,  and  called  for  your  proofs.  You  replied 
with  abuse,  and  re-asserted  your  charge.  I  catted  again  for 
proofs.  You  reply  again  with  abuse  only,  and  drop  your  ac- 
cusation. In  your  fortnight's  letter  there  is  not  one  word 
upon  the  subject  of  my  corruption. 

I  have  no  more  to  say,  but  to  return  thanks  to  you  for 
your  condescension,  and  to  a  grateful  public  and  honest  mi- 
nistry for  all  the  favours  they  have  conferred  upon  me.  The 
two  latter,  I  am  sure,  will  never  refuse  me  any  grace  I  shall 


JUNIUS.  75 

solicit;  and  since  you  have  been  pleased  to  acknowledge  that 
you  told  a  deliberate  lie  in  my  favour  out  of  bounty,  and  as  a 
charitable  donation,  why  may  I  not  expect  that  you  will  here- 
after (if  you  do  not  forget  you  ever  mentioned  my  name  with 
disrespect)  make  the  same  acknowledgment  for  what  you  have 
said  to  my  prejudice?— This  second  recantation  will  perhaps 
be  more  abhorrent  from  your  disposition;  but  should  you 
decline  it,  you  will  only  afford  one  more  instance  how  much 
easier  it  is  to  be  generous  than  just,  and  that  men  are  some- 
times bountiful  who  are  not  honest. 

At  all  events  I  am  as  well  satisfied  with  your  panegyric  as 
Lord  Chatham  can  be.  Monument  I  shall  have  none;  but 
over  my  grave  it  will  be  said,  in  your  own  words, "  Home's 
situation  did  not  correspond  with  his  intentions*." 

JOHN  HORNE, 


LETTER  LVII. 

TO  HIS  GRACE  THE  DUKE  OF  GRAFTON. 
My  Lord,  28  Sept.  1771. 

The  people  of  England  are  not  apprized  of  the  full  extent 
of  their  obligations  to  you.  They  have  yet  no  adequate  idea 
of  the  endless  variety  of  your  character.  They  have  seen 
you  distinguished  and  successful  in  the  continued  violation 
of  those  moral  and  political  duties,  by  which  the  little,  as  well 
as  the  great  societies  of  life,  are  collected  and  held  together. 
Every  colour,  every  character  became  you.  With  a  rate  of 
abilities,  which  Lord  Weymouth  very  justly  looks  down 
upon  with  contempt,  you  have  done  as  much  mischief  to  the 
community  as  Cromwell  would  have  done,  if  Cromwell  had 
been  a  coward,  and  as  much  as  Machiavel^  if  Machiavel  had 
not  known,  that  an  appearance  of  morals  and  religion  are 
useful  in  society. — To  a  thinking  man,  the  influence  of  the 
crown  will,  in  no  view,  appear  so  formidable,  as  when  he  ob- 
serves to  what  enormous  excesses  it  has  safely  conducted 

*  The  epitaph  would  not  be  ill  suited  to  the  character;— At  the  best,  li- 
3  but  equivocal. 

Vol.  II.  K 


74  LETTERS  OF 

your  Grace,  without  a  ray  of  real  understanding,  without 
even  the  pretension  to  common  decency  or  principle  of  any 
kind,  or  a  single  spark  of  personal  resolution.  What  must  be 
the  operation  of  that  pernicious  influence,  (for  which  our 
Kings  have  wisely  exchanged  the  nugatory  name  of  prero- 
gative) that,  in  the  highest  stations,  can  so  abundantly  sup- 
ply the  absence  of  virtue,  courage,  and  abilities,  and  qualify 
a  man  to  be  the  minister  of  a  great  nation,  whom  a  private 
gentleman  would  be  ashamed  and  afraid  to  admit  into  his 
family!  Like  the  universal  passport  of  an  ambassador,  it  su- 
persedes the  prohibition  of  the  laws,  banishes  the  staple  vir- 
tues of  the  country,  and  introduces  vice  and  folly  triumphant- 
ly into  all  the  departments  of  the  state.  Other  princes,  besides 
his  Majesty,  have  had  the  means  of  corruption  within  their 
reach,  but  they  have  used  it  with  moderation.  In  former 
times,  corruption  was  considered  as  a  foreign  auxiliary  to 
government,  and  only  called  in  upon  extraordinary  emer- 
gencies. The  unfeigned  piety,  the  sanctified  religion  of 
George  the  third  have  taught  him  to  new  model  the  civil 
forces  of  the  state.  The  natural  resources  of  the  crown  are 
no  longer  confided  in.  Corruption  glitters  in  the  van; — col- 
lects and  maintains  a  standing  army  of  mercenaries,  and,  at 
the  same  moment,  impoverishes  and  inslaves  the  country. — 
His  Majesty's  predecessors,  (excepting  that  worthy  family, 
from  which  you,  my  Lord,  are  unquestionably  descended,) 
had  some  generous  qualities  in  their  composition,  with  vices, 
I  confess,  or  frailties  in  abundance.  They  were  kings  or  gen- 
tlemen, not  hypocrites  or  priests.  They  were  at  the  head  of 
the  church,  but  did  not  know  the  value  of  their  office.  They 
said  their  prayers  without  ceremony,  and  had  too  little 
priestcraft  in  their  understanding,  to  reconcile  the  sanctimo- 
nious forms  of  religion  with  the  utter  destruction  of  the  mo- 
rality of  their  people. — My  Lord,  this  is  fact,  not  declama- 
tion.— With  all  your  partiality  to  the  house  of  Stuart,  you 
must  confess,  that  even  Charles  the  second  would  have  blush- 
ed at  that  open  encouragement,  at  those  eager,  meretricious 
caresses,  with  which  every  species  of  private  vice  and  pub- 
lic prostitution  is  received  at  St.  James's. — The  unfortunate 


JUNIUS.  75 

house  of  Stuart  has  been  treated  with  an  asperity,  which,  if 
comparison  be  a  defence,  seems  to  border  upon  injustice. 
Neither  Charles  nor  his  brother  were  qualified  to  support 
such  a  system  of  measures,  as  would  be  necessary,  to  change 
the  government,  and  subvert  the  constitution  of  England. 
One  of  them  was  too  much  in  earnest  in  his  pleasures, — the 
other  in  his  religion.  But  the  danger  to  this  country  would 
cease  to  be  problematical,  if  the  crown  should  ever  descend 
to  a  prince,  whose  apparent  simplicity  might  throw  his  sub- 
jects off  their  guard, — who  might  be  no  libertine  in  be- 
haviour,— who  should  have  no  sense  of  honour  to  restrain 
him,  and  who,  with  just  religion  enough  to  impose  upon  the 
multitude,  might  have  no  scruples  of  conscience  to  interfere 
with  his  morality.  With  these  honourable  qualifications,  and 
the  decisive  advantage  of  situation,  low  craft  and  falsehood 
are  all  the  abilities  that  are  wanting  to  destroy  the  wisdom 
of  ages,  and  to  deface  the  noblest  monument  that  human 
policy  has  erected — I  know  such  a  man; — My  Lord,  I  know 
you  both;  and  with  the  blessing  of  God  (for  I  too  am  reli- 
gious,) the  people  of  England  shall  know  you  as  well  as  I  do. 
J  am  not  very  sure  that  greater  abilities  would  not  in  effect 
be  an  impediment  to  a  design,  which  seems  at  first  sight  to 
require  a  superior  capacity.  A  better  understanding  might 
make  him  sensible  of  the  wonderful  beauty  of  that  system  he 
was  endeavouring  to  corrupt.  The  danger  of  the  attempt 
might  alarm  him.  The  meanness,  and  intrinsic  worthlessness 
of  the  object  (supposing  he  could  attain  to  it)  would  fill  him 
with  shame,  repentance  and  disgust.  But  these  are  sensa- 
tions, which  find  no  entrance  into  a  barbarous,  contracted 
heart.  In  some  men,  there  is  a  malignant  passion  to  destroy 
the  works  of  genius,  literature,  and  freedom.  The  Vandal 
and  the  Monk  find  equal  gratification  in  it. 

Reflections  like  these,  my  Lord,  have  a  general  relation  to 
your  Grace,  and  inseparably  attend  you,  in  whatever  com- 
pany or  situation  your  character  occurs  to  us.  They  have  no 
immediate  connection  with  the  following  recent  fact,  which 
I  lay  before  the  public,  for  the  honour  of  the  best  of  Sove- 
reigns, and  for  the  edification  of  his  people. 


76  LETTERS  OF 

A  prince  (whose  piety  and  self-denial,  one  would  think, 
might  secure  him  from  such  a  multitude  of  worldly  necessi- 
ties,) with  an  annual  revenue  of  near  a  million  sterling,  un- 
fortunately wants  money. — The  navy  of  England,  by  an 
equally  strange  concurrence  of  unforeseen  circumstances, 
(though  not  quite  so  unfortunately  for  his  Majesty)  is  in 
equal  want  of  timber.  The  world  knows,  in  what  a  hopeful 
Condition  you  delivered  the  navy  to  your  successor,  and  in 
what  a  condition  we  found  it  in  the  moment  of  distress*. 
You  were  determined  it  should  continue  in  the  situation  in 
which  you  left  it.  It  happened,  however,  very  luckily  for  the 
privy  purse,  that  one  of  the  above  wants  promised  fair  to 
supply  the  other.  Our  religious,  benevolent,  generous  Sove- 
reign, has  no  objection  to  selling  his  own  timber  to  his  own 
admiralty,  to  repair  his  own  ships,  nor  to  putting  the  money 
into  his  own  pocket.  People  of  a  religious  turn  naturally  ad- 
here to  the  principles  of  the  church.  Whatever  they  acquire 
falls  into  mortmain. — Upon  a  representation  from  the  admi- 
ralty of  the  extraordinary  want  of  timber,  for  the  indispensa- 
ble repairs  of  the  navy,  the  surveyor  general  was  directed  to 
make  a  survey  of  the  timber  in  all  the  royal  chaces  and  fo- 
rests in  England.  Having  obeyed  his  orders  with  accuracy 
and  attention,  he  reported,  that  the  finest  timber  he  had  any- 
where met  with,  and  the  properest  in  every  respect  for  the 
purposes  of  the  navy,  was  in  IVhittlebary  Forest,  of  which 
your  Grace,  I  think,  is  hereditary  ranger.  In  consequence  of 
this  report,  the  usual  warrant  was  prepared  at  the  treasury, 
and  delivered  to  the  surveyor,  by  which  he  or  his  deputy 
were  authorized  to  cut  down  any  trees  in  Whittlebury  Forest, 
which  should  appear  to  be  proper  for  the  purposes  abovc- 

*  When  the  armament  took  place,  in  consequence  of  the  dispute  with 
Spain,  respecting  Falkland's  Islands,  the  navy  was  found  to  be  in  a  most 
deplorable  state.  By  the  exertions  of  the  late  Earl  of  Sandwich,  then,  and 
for  many  years  afterwards,  first  lord  of  the  admiralty,  it  was  greatly  reno- 
vated. It  is  however  to  later  periods,  to  the  superintemlance  of  the  present 
Earl  Spencer,  and  some  of  his  very  able  successors,  that  we  arc  to  look  for 
its  true  pinnacle  of  glory: — for  the  manifestation  of  that  expert  and  chi- 
valrous courage  which  has  made  it  indeed  the  envy  of  an  individual  tyrant, 
but  the  admiration  of  all  the  rest  of  the  world.  Edit. 


JUNIUS.  77 

mentioned.  The  deputy  being  informed  that  the  warrant 
was  signed  and  delivered  to  his  principal  in  London,  crosses 
the  country  to  Northamptonshire,  and  with  an  officious  zeal 
for  the  public  service,  begins  to  do  his  duty  in  the  forest. 
Unfortunately  for  him,  he  had  not  the  warrant  in  his  pocket. 
The  oversight  was  enormous,  and  you  have  punished  him 
for  it  accordingly.  You  have  insisted  that  an  active,  useful 
officer  should  be  dismissed  from  his  place.  You  have  ruined 
an  innocent  man,  and  his  family. — In  what  language  shall  I 
address  so  black,  so  cowardly  a  tyrant;— thou  worse  than  one 
of  the  Brunswicks,  and  all  the  Stuarts! — To  them,  who  know 
Lord  North,  it  is  unnecessary  to  say,  that  he  was  mean  and 
base  enough  to  submit  to  you. — This  however  is  but  a  small 
part  of  the  fact.  After  ruining  the  surveyor's  deputy,  for 
acting  without  the  warrant,  you  attacked  the  warrant  itself. 
You  declared  it  was  illegal,  and  swore,  in  a  fit  of  foaming, 
frantic  passion,  that  it  never  should  be  executed.  You  as- 
serted upon  your  honour,  that  in  the  grant  of  the  rangership 
of  Whittlebury  Forest,  made  by  Charles  the  second,  (whom, 
with  a  modesty  that  would  do  honour  to  Mr.  Rigby,  you  are 
pleased  to  call  your  ancestor)  to  one  of  his  bastards,  (from 
whom  I  make  no  doubt  of  your  descent,)  the  property  of  the 
timber  is  vested  in  the  ranger. — I  have  examined  the  origi- 
nal grant,  and  now,  in  the  face  of  the  public,  contradict  you 
directly  upon  the  fact.  The  very  reverse  of  what  you  have 
asserted  upon  your  honour  is  the  truth.  The  grant,  expressly 
and  by  a  particular  clause,  reserves  the  property  of  the  tim- 
ber for  the  use  of  the  crown.— In  spite  of  this  evidence, — ■ 
in  defiance  of  the  representations  of  the  admiralty, — in  per- 
fect mockery  of  the  notorious  distresses  of  the  English  navy, 
and  those  equally  pressing,  and  almost  equally  notorious 
necessities  of  your  pious  Sovereign, — here  the  matter  rests. 
— The  lords  of  the  Treasury  recal  their  warrant;  the  deputy 
surveyor  is  ruined  for  doing  his  duty; — Mr.  John  Pitt, 
(whose  name  I  suppose  is  offensive  to  you)  submits  to  be 
brow-beaten  and  insulted; — the  oaks  keep  their  ground; — 
the  King  is  defrauded,  and  the  navy  of  England  may  perish 
fur  want  of  the  best  and  finest  timber  in  the  island.  And  all 


78  LETTERS  OF 

this  is  submitted  to — to  appease  the  Duke  of  Grafton!— To 
gratify  the  man,  who  has  involved  the  King  and  his  kingdom 
in  confusion  and  distress,  and  who,  like  a  treacherous  cow- 
ard, deserted  his  Sovereign  in  the  midst  of  it! 

There  has  been  a  strange  alteration  in  your  doctrines,  since 
you  thought  it  adviseable  to  rob  the  Duke  of  Portland  of  his 
property,  in  order  to  strengthen  the  interest  of  Lord  Bute's 
son-in-law,  before  the  last  general  election*.  Nullum  tempus 

*  Few  persons  have  yet  forgotten  the  commotion  into  which  the  nation 
was  thrown  by  this  outrageous  attempt  of  the  minister  to  enlarge  the  royal 
prerogative.  By  the  common  law  of  England  no  man  can  be  disturbed  in 
his  title  who  has  been  in  quiet  possession  of  an  estate  for  sixty  years:  but 
by  an  old  obsolete  law,  a  wretched  remnant  of  ancient  tyranny,  it  was  as- 
serted that  milium  tempus  occurrit  regi,  and  such  was  the  commencement  of 
the  law  itself:  in  plain  English  that  no  term  of  possession,  whether  sixty, 
or  a  hundred  and  sixty  years,  can  defend  against  a  claim  of  the  crown 
This  law  was  attempted  to  be  revived  in  the  reign  of  James  I:  but  the  at- 
tempt was  so  effectually  opposed  in  its  outset  by  that  sound  constitutional 
lawyer  Sir  Edward  Coke,  that  a  Bill  of  a  contrary  tendency  was  suffered 
to  pass  in  its  stead,  which  expressly  secured  every  estate  of  sixty  years 
possession,  "  against  all  and  every  person  having  or  pretending  to  have  any 
estate,  right,  or  title,  by  force  or  colour  of  any  letters  patent,  or  grants, 
upon  suggestion  of  concealment,  or  defective  titles,  of  or  for  which  said 
manors,  lands,  and  tenements,  no  verdict,  judgment,  or  decree,  hath  been 
had  or  given." 

This  extraordinary  and  unconstitutional  prerogative  of  the  crown,  was 
attempted  to  be  revived  by  the  Duke  of  Grafton  in  1767;  who  for  the  mere 
purpose  of  carrying  an  election  for  the  county  of  Cumberland  in  favour  of 
Sir  James  Lowther  against  the  Duke  of  Portland,  had  admitted  the  former 
•to  become  a  royal  grantee  of  an  enormous  portion  of  what  had  formerly 
been  crown  lands1 — but  which  had  been  for  upwards  of  seventy  years  in 
the  different  families  of  the  actual  possessors.  This  attempt  introduced 
Sir  George  Savile's  famous  Bill,  which  was  called  the  Quieting  Bill,  and 
was  intended  to  render  more  valid  the  Act  of  James  I.  in  favour  of  the 
subject  against  the  crown.  The  remainder  shall  be  given  to  the  reader  in 
an  extract  from  a  writer  in  the  Public  Advertiser,  who  adopted  the  signa- 
ture of  Ulysses,  and  addressed  two  Letters  to  Lord  North  on  this  subject. 

"  The  Bill  was  lost.  But  the  perseverance  of  a  good  man  in  a  good 
cause,  is  not  easily  shaken.  Sir  George  Savilc  revived  the  Bill  in  the  suc- 
ceeding session;  and  its  success  at  last,  notwithstanding  all  the  efforts  of 
your  Lordship,  and  the  rest  of  the  administration,  gave  a  signal  proof  of 
the  constitutional  spirit  which  will  break  forth,  when  the  struggle  begins 
between  liberty  and  prerogative. — In  the  progress  of  the  Bill,  a  clause 
was  proposed  by  the  friends  of  Sir  James  Lowther,  which  left  to  the  gran- 
tees 


JUNIUS.  79 

occurrit  regi^  was  then  your  boasted  motto,  and  the  cry  of 
all  your  hungry  partisans.  Now  it  seems  a  grant  of  Charles 

tees  of  the  crown,  twelve  months  from  the  1st  of  Jan.  1769,  for  the  prose- 
cution of  their  suits.  The  friends  of  the  Bill,  anxious  to  secure  to  the  sub- 
ject, if  they  could,  so  important  a  law,  did  not  hesitate  in  admitting'  the 
clause.  They  assented  to  the  proposition,  that  the  case  of  Sir  James  Low- 
ther  should  remain  untouched  by  the  Bill  then  depending. 

"  Such  was  that  consent,  of  which  Sir  James's  friends  have  talk'd  so 
much:  And  what  does  it  at  last  amount  to?  We  agree  not  to  touch  the 
case  of  Sir  James  Lowther  by  this  Bill.  Does  this  important  agreement 
(if  by  the  way  such  an  agreement  could  be  made  by  private  parties,  in  re- 
straint of  the  powers  of  parliament)  never  interpose?  At  no  time,  in  no 
circumstances,  under  mo  provocations  of  the  most  flagrant  abuse,  or  the 
most  urgent  necessity?  Does  it  mean  to  say,  that  all  future  parliaments 
shall  to  eternity  be  barred  from  interfering,  though  impelled  to  it  by  the 
clearest  justice?  Do  the  friends  of  the  Duke  of  Portland,  does  the  whole 
legislature  mean  to  ratify,  to  confirm,  and  to  sanctify  that  hateful  grant?  If 
these  intentions  neither  can,  nor  will  be  attributed  to  the  consent  given, 
the  utmost  construction  of  it  can  extend  no  farther,  than  I  have  contended 
that  its  true  sense  imports,  a  neutrality  at  that  time  and  in  that  Bill,  towards 
the  question.  If  the  case  should  be  found  to  require  future  interposition, 
future  parliaments  will  interpose.  But  till  the  conduct  of  Sir  James  Low- 
ther shall  make  it  necessary  for  us  to  point  at  him  personally,  we  will  give 
him  credit  for  those  feelings  of  sense,  of  decency  and  of  remorse,  that 
shall  make  it  peevish  to  revive  the  memory  of  that  odious  transaction. 

"  Have  these  sensations  operated  upon  Sir  James?  What  has  been  his 
conduct?  On  the  last  day  of  the  year  allowed  him,  he  served  above  400 
ejectments.  The  county  of  Cumberland,  from  one  extremity  of  it  to  the 
other,  was  in  the  utmost  confusion.  Not  a  man  who  had  voted  against 
him  within  the  described  limits  of  the  grant,  was  to  escape.  The  word  was 
gone  forth — The  rebels  must  be  sacrificed,  the  county  must  be  crushed. 
But  the  alarm  that  was  given  by  so  extensive  and  unparalleled  revenge, 
made  it  very  soon  prudent  and  necessary  for  Sir  James  to  abandon  many 
of  those  suits:  And  they  stood  then  reduced  to  the  moderate  number  of 
15  Bills  in  a  Court  of  Equity,  and  225  suits  at  law. 

"  Your  Lordship,  perhaps,  could  see  with  pleasure  the  miseries  of  that 
devoted  county.  You  could,  perhaps,  contemplate  with  inward  satisfac- 
tion, the  glorious  and  exalted  figure  of  Sir  James  Lowther,  while  you  be- 
held him  with  an  air  of  triumphant  dignity,  ride  in  the  whirlwind  and  di- 
rect the  storm.  Other  ideas  filled  the  mind  of  Sir  William  Meredith.  He 
could  not  hear  of  the  distress  and  confusion  into  which  that  unfortunate 
county  was  plunged  by  the  clause  alluded  to,  without  immediately  resolv- 
ing to  do  that  justice  to  Cumberland,  which  had  been  already  shewn  to 
every  other  county  in  the  King's  dominions.  He  therefore  brought  in  the 
Bill  to  repeal  that  clause. 

u  I  do  not  mean  to  enter  into  abstruse  arguments  upon  the  subject.  In 

truth, 


80  LETTERS  OF 

the  second  to  one  of  his  bastards  is  to  be  held  sacred  and  in- 
violable! It  mast  not  be  questioned  by  the  King's  servants, 

truth,  it  is  a  subject  that  the  plain  common  sense  of  every  moderate  capa- 
city, the  natural  and  first  feelings  of  every  generous  and  honest  heart  must 
instantly  decide  upon.  A  law  is  made  for  the  general  quiet  of  the  subject.  A 
clause  improvidently  admitted  (upon  a  principle  of  delicacy  which  subse- 
quent events  have  not  justified)  counteracts  the  intention  of  that  law;  by 
perverting  its  beneficial  purposes,  and  making  it  operate  as  a  partial  in- 
strument of  oppression,  instead  of  securing  to  the  whole  kingdom  the 
blessings  it  was  intended  to  diffuse.  Is  not  this  a  state  of  the  fact?  Was 
not  the  whole  kingdom,  Cumberland  excepted,  in  the  full  enjoyment  of 
that  security  which  the  Bill  of  Quiet  was  intended  to  procure?  And  was 
not  Cumberland,  and  Cumberland  alone,  sacrificed  by  this  clause?  For 
extraordinary  as  the  fact  is,  it  is  a  truth  which  ought  to  be  known,  and 
which  I  am  sure  nobody  will  dare  to  controvert,  that  Sir  James  Lowther 
is  the  single  grantee  of  the  crown  who  has  availed  himself  of  this  clause. 
There  was  not  a  man  to  be  found,  Sir  James  Lowther  excepted,  who 
would  suffer  himself  to  be  transmitted  to  posterity  as  the  last  Englishman 
who  exercised  over  his  fellow-subjects  this  expiring  right  of  barbarity. 

"  Ashamed  of  proceedings  which  all  men  saw  with  concern,  the  Bill 
operated  so  far  upon  Sir  James,  that  he  was  at  last  induced  to  offer  to  aban- 
don every  other  suit  he  had  begun,  provided  only  that  he  might  be  at  full 
liberty  to  prosecute  with  effect  the  great  delinquent,  the  Duke  of  Port- 
land. 

"  Your  Lordship's  notions  of  equal  justice  reconciled  you  to  the  idea. 
You  thought  "that  his  Grace's  situation  in  life,  and  his  fortune,  exempted 
him  from  compassion;  and  that  he  was  therefore  excluded  from  all  claim 
or  pretension  to  common  justice. 

"  It  is  your  duty,  my  Lord,  to  inform  the  public  why  that  grant  is  ac- 
knowledged to  be  untenable  against  all  but  his  Grace  of  Portland?  Why 
it  is  to  be  abandoned  and  renounced  in  every  instance  but  in  his?  What 
there  is  in  it,  if  Sir  James  thought  it  shameful  and  unjustifiable  to  proceed 
against  the  224,  that  should  make  it  honourable  or  just  to  pursue  the  225th  I 
Sir  James  Lowther  and  your  Lordship  have  allowed  that  all  traces  of  this 
detested  grant  should  be  obliterated  with  respect  to  every  suit  commenced, 
one  only  excepted.  Have  you  tried  those  suits?  Have  you  heard  their  re- 
spective merits?  Can  you  distinguish  between  them,  and  say  this  man 
should  be  quieted;  that  man  ought  to  be  harassed  and  oppressed!  Yet  you 
have  said  so; — for  the  Duke  of  Portland  is  an  exception  to  all  cases.  He  is 
not  fit  to  have  the  benefit  of  that  law  (created  by  the  severity  of  his  parti- 
cular case)  which  every  other  Englishman  does  actually  enjoy.  He  ought 
to  stand  branded  and  exposed  to  all  posterity:  He  shall  be  attainted  by 
name:  He  must  fall  the  single  victim,  and  be  made  the  only  sacrifice  for 
She  peace  and  quiet  of  this  country. 

"  Let  us  then  hear  no  more  of  the  objection  of  parliamentary  interposi- 
tion pendente  lite,  by  an  ex  post  facto  Law.  Your  Lordship  heard  in  the 

proper 


JUNIUS.  81 

nor  submitted  to  any  interpretation  but  your  own. — My 
Lord,  this  was  not  the  language  you  held,  when  it  suited  you 

proper  place,  and  could  not  refute,  the  many  precedents  of  laws  made  ex 
post  facto  upon  urgent  occasions.  Your  lordship  could  not  then,  nor  will 
now  deny,  that  when  parliaments  have  interfered  to  protect  the  subject 
aga  nst  oppressive  grants,  they  have  always  done  it;  they  must  ever  do  it 
pendente  lite.  Till  the  grant  is  put  in  suit,  no  grievance  can  be  said  to  exist. 
The  prosecutions  under  it  are  the  very  grievance  which  parliament  inter- 
poses to  redress.  Such  was  the  view,  and  such  was  the  effect  of  the  Bill 
for  the  general  quiet  of  the  subjt-ct  in  King  James's  time,  and  which  Sir 
George  Savile's  was  intended  to  pursue — But,  my  Lord,  you  cannot  avail 
yourself  of  the  argument.  The  concession  of  Sir  James  Lowther  has  alone 
defeated  it. 

"  A  grant  is  passed,  affecting  in  its  consequences  the  rights  of  225  per- 
sons. By  a  law  that  should  be  made  ex  post  facto,  pendente  lite,  you  would 
deem  it  honourable  and  just  to  restrain  Sir  James  Lowther  from  proceed- 
ing in  224  of  these  suits.  It  remains  for  your  Lordship  to  satisfy  the  world 
that  it  is  honourable  and  just  that  he  should  proceed  in  the  225th.  You 
must  do  more. — You  must  prove  that  it  will  not  be  both  dishonourable  and 
unjust  if  he  do,  oi  if  he  be  suffered  to  proceed  in  it." 

In  order  to  relieve  the  Dukt-  of  Portland  from  the  suit  of  Sir  James 
Lowther,  another  explanatory  Bill  was  introduced  into  the  House  of  Com- 
mons in  Feb.  7, 1771,  by  which  the  clause  in  favour  of  Sir  James  Lowther 
was  to  be  repealed:  the  question  was  lost  on  the  third  reading  by  164  in 
behalf  of  the  clause,  against  155  in  opposition  to  it. 

The  reader  will  nevertheless  rejoice  to  hear  that  the  crown,  on  the  part 
of  Sir  James  Lowther,  was  nonsuited  in  the  court  of  Exchequer,  though 
it  had  triumphed  in  the  House  of  Commons.  The  following  short  state- 
ment of  this  celebrated  trial  is  taken  from  the  Public  Advertiser,  Nov.  22, 
1771.  "  Wednesday  came  on  before  the  Barons  of  the  Exchequer,  at  West- 
minster Hall,  the  great  cause  between  Sir  James  Lowther,  Bart.  plaintiff, 
and  the  Duke  of  Portland,  defendant,  in  consequence  of  a  grant  made  to 
Sir  James  Lowther  of  the  forest  of  Inglewood,  in  the  year  1767,  of  lands 
being  for  upwards  of  seventy  years  in  the  possession  of  the  Duke  of  Port- 
land Their  Lordshrps  came  into  court  about  nine  o'clock,  and  after  wait- 
ing near  an  hour  for  Baron  Adams,  the  chief  Baron  received  a  letter  from 
his  Lordship,  informing  him  of  the  impossibility  of  his  attending  the  Court 
that  day,  on  account  of  the  death  of  Lady  Adams.  The  court  then  entered 
into  the  business  of  the  day,  and  recited  all  the  records  and  prerogatives 
of  the  crown,  from  Edward  the  first  to  the  lease  made  to  Sir  James  Low- 
ther; when,  after  a  full,  candid,  and  most  impartial  examination  of  the  said 
lease,  it  was  found  invalid,  agreeable  to  the  statute  made  in  the  first  year 
of  Queen  Anne,  which  recites  "  that  upon  every  grant,  lease,  or  assurance^ 
there  be  reserved  a  reasonable  rent,  not  being  under  the  third  part  of  the 
clear  yearly  value  of  such  of  the  said  manors,  messuages,  lands,  &c.  &c  as 
shall  be  contained  in  such  lease  or  grant."  Sir  James  Lowther's  grant 

Vol.  II.  L  fr°™ 


82  LETTERS  OF 

to  insult  the  memory  of  the  glorious  deliverer  of  England 
from  that  detested  family,  to  which  you  are  still  more  nearly 
allied  in  principle  than  in  blood. — In  the  name  of  decency 
and  common  sense,  what  are  your  Grace's  merits,  either  with 
King  or  ministry,  that  should  intitle  you  to  assume  this  do- 
mineering authority  over  both? — Is  it  the  fortunate  consan- 
guinity you  claim  with  the  house  of  Stuart? — Is  it  the  secret 
correspondence  you  have  for  so  many  years  carried  on  with 
Lord  Bute,  by  the  assiduous  assistance  of  yt  ur  cream  coloured 
parasite? — Could  not  your  gallantry  find  sufficient  employ- 
ment for  him,  in  those  gentle  offices  by  whi<  h  he  first  ac- 
quired the  tender  friendship  of  Lord  Barring-ton? — Or  is  it 
only  that  wonderful  sympathy  of  manners,  which  subsists 
between  your  Grace  and  one  of  your  superiors,  and  does  so 
much  honour  to  you  both? — Is  the  union  of  Blifil  and  Black 
George  no  longer  a  romance? — From  whatever  origin  your 
influence  in  this  country  arises,  it  is  a  phenomenon  in  the 
history  of  human  virtue  and  understanding. — Good  men 
can  hardly  believe  the  fact.  Wise  men  are  unable  to  account 
for  it.  Religious  men  find  exercise  for  their  faith,  and  make 
it  the  last  effort  of  their  piety,  not  to  repine  against  Provi- 
dence. 

JUNIUS*. 

from  the  crown  being  only  a  quit  rent  of  13s.  and  4d.  for  the  whole  forest 
of  Inglewood,  was  immediately  judged  by  the  Court  an  inadequate  third 
proportion,  and  he  was  nonsuited  accordingly." 

See  the  whole  transaction  more  fully  expatiated  upon  in  Miscellaneous 
Letters  signed  Mnemon.  Edit. 

*  To  this  letter  the  following  answer  was  returned,  which,  as  it  proves 
Junius  to  have  been  mistaken  as  to  the  facts  relative  to  Whittlebury 
Forest,  is  here  inserted  on  the  score  of  impartiality. 

FOR  THE  PUBLIC  ADVERTISER. 

The  Story  of  the  Oaks  addressed  to  the  Public  and  to  Junius. 
The  principles  upon  which  Junius  fabricates  all  his  declamations  t< 
the  public,  have  been  fairly  unmasked,  and  plainly  exhibited  in  two  for- 
mer Letters. — They  need  only  an  exposure  to  nullify  every  thing  he  pro- 
mulgates, and  render  him  abominable  in  the  eyes  of  common-sense  and 
honesty. — But  to  follow  so  gross  a  falsifier  through  the  infinity  of  his 
wicked  libels  and  virulent  attacks  upon  the  King,  and  many  of  the  wor- 
thiest 


JUNIUS.  83 


LETTER  LVIII. 

ADDRESSED  TO  THE  LIVERY  OF  LONDON. 
Gentlemen,  30  Sept.  1771. 

If  you  alone  were  concerned  in  the  event  of  the  present 
election  of  a  chief  magistrate  of  the  metropolis,  it  would  be 
the  highest  presumption  in  a  stranger,  to  attempt  to  influ- 
ence your  choice,  or  even  to  offer  you  his  opinion.   But  the 

thiest  characters  in  the  nation,  is  a  task  too  foul  for  any  gentleman  to  un- 
dertake.— Suffice  it  therefore  to  observe,  that  Junius's  labours  all  tend 
to  sinister  ends,  and  they  are  glossed  o^er  with  a  high  varnish  only  to 
conceal  the  coarseness  of  the  design. — Men,  and  not  measures  are  his 
aim. — He  avails  himself  of  the  unhappy  licentiousness  of  the  times,  and 
levels  all  his  rhetoric  at  your  passions,  not  at  your  reason. 

He  began  his  career  upon  the  old  infamous  maxim  in  political  writing, 
that  lies  are  swifter  of  foot  than  truth,  and  when  they  are  roundly  and 
boldly  asserted  will  find  believers;  but  luckily  for  us,  that  left-handed 
wisdom  called  cunning,  always  detects  and  frustrates  itself. 

The  last  charge  which  he  has  blazoned  in  such  fiery  colours  against 
the  Duke  of  Grafton  relative  to  the  Oaks,  may  serve  as  a  specimen  of  his 
veracity. — The  fact  is  in  no  one  instance  as  he  has  represented  it. — An  offi- 
cer was  sent  down  by  the  commissioners  of  the  navy  (as  he  declared)  to 
inspect  the  timber  in  Salcey  and  Whittlebury  Forests  in  Northampton- 
shire; and  was  ordered  to  make  a  return  of  what  he  thought  fit  for  the 
purposes  of  ship  building. —  He  accordingly  marked  upwards  of  four 
thousand  trees  in  the  latter,  which  are  almost  all  that  deserve  the  name 
of  timber  in  the  whole  forest. — In  consequence  of  his  return  an  applica- 
tion was  made  to  the  treasury  for  permission  to  cut  down  thirteen  hun- 
dred loads — and  to  make  a  just  parody  upon  Junius's  own  words,  "to 
them  who  know  Lord  North  it  is  unnecessary  to  say  that  he  was  very 
ready  to  give  his  assent;"  as  the  advancement  of  every  public  good  has 
ever  been  the  invariable  rule  of  his  Lordship's  conduct. — But  it  was  never 
intended  nor  suspected  that  it  would  be  carried  into  a  rash  unseasonable 
execution;  without  due  regard  being  first  paid  to  the  circumstances  at- 
tendant upon  such  an  operation;  nor  was  the  exigency  so  urgent  as  to 
warrant  a  flagrant  violation  of  private  property;  which  the  adjacent  pa- 
rishes must  have  suffered  in  their  right  of  commonage,  and  the  Duke  in 
his  hereditary  right  to  the  underwood,  had  he  not  remonstrated  against 
it. — Besides  the  season  for  felling  timber  was  so  far  past,  that  the  bark 
(which  is  a  valuable  article,  and  will  never  run  except  in  April  or  May 
while  the  sap  is  rising)  would  have  been  entirely  lost. — But  there  is  ano- 
ther argument  to  be  adduced  still  more  cogent  than  all  the  rest,  it  bein"- 
a  great  national  concern,  which  is  to  preserve  the  succession  of  young 

trees*— 


84  LETTERS  OF 

situation  of  public  affairs  has  annexed  an  extraordinary  im- 
porrance  to  your  resolutions.  You  cannot,  in  the  choice  of 
your  magistrate,  determine  for  yourselves  only.  You  are 
going  to  determine  upon  a  point,  in  which  every  member  of 

trees. — This  can  only  be  done  by  carefully  clearing-  away  the  common 
underwood  so  as  to  expose  them  to  plain  view,  otherwise  they  would  be 
inevitably  demolished,  partly  by  the  falling  of  the  trees,  and  partly  by  the 
carelessness  of  workmen,  as  they  grow  mostly  under  them  from  the  acorns 
which  drop — There  is  an  established  and  legal  rule  against  cutting  the 
underwood  oftener  than  once  in  twenty-one  years,  for  nine  years  after  it 
is  cut  the  same  regulation  prescribes  that  the  respective  coppices  shall  be 
fenced  in  to  prevent  the  cattle  and  deer  from  destroying  the  young  tender 
shoots;  during  which  time  the  vi(  in  age  is  deprived  of  the  pasture;  and 
for  the  remaining  twelve  years  of  that  term,  the   neighbouring  villages 
have  a  positive  right  of  common.  Underwood  is  as  necc  ssary  to  draw 
young  trees  up  straight,  and  produce  good  timber,  as  a  hot-bed  is  for 
raising  melons  and  mushrooms. — There  are  many  secondary  considera- 
tions which  ought  to  have  their  weight,  though  it  is  not  requisite  after 
whut  has  been  advanced,  to  swell  this  narrative  by  enumerating  them.— 
Without  deliberating  upon  these  essential  points,  so  ardent  was  the  zeal 
of  the  surveyor-general  for  the  public  service  (for  the  trifling  perquisites 
of  the  lop  and  chips,  amounting  to  little  more  than  half  the  value  of  the 
timber,  cannot  be  deemed  a  sufficient  incentive  for  committing  such  a  de- 
predation), that    he  immediately  dispatched  a  person   unauthorized  to 
hack,  and  hew,  without  the  least  previous  intimation  being  given  to  the 
hereditary  ranger,  deputy  ranger,  or  the  king's  woodward.  In  opposition 
to  all  this  strange  precipitancy  and  irregularity,  the  Duke  of  Grafton  did 
no  more  than  interpose  a  candid  representation  of  the  case;  which  wi.v  ly 
put  a  stop  to  such  unjust  proceedings. — He  never  once  made  use  of  those 
absurd  declarations  which  Junius  has  so  invidiously  put  in  his  mouth, 
"that  the  property  of  the  timber  was  vested  in  the  ranger." — And  to  re- 
tort a  few  more  of  his  own  precious  words,  he  must  here  be  "  contradict- 
ed in  the  face  of  the  public  directly  upon  the  fact. — The  very  reverse  of 
what  he  has  asserted  is  the  truth" — for  neithe*  the  present  duke  nor  his 
predecessor  ever  allowed  a  single  stick  of  timber  to  be  cut  down,  for  any 
purpose,  without  first  having  obtained  a  regular  order  from  the  treasury— 
on  the  contrary  (as  it  has  been  heretofore  justly  remarked)  it  has  been 
preserved  for  the  use  of  the  public,  with  an  attention  and  integrity  not  to 
be  paralleled  in  any  other  royal  forest. 

For  the  better  convenience  of  supplying  the  industrious  poor  of  the  cir- 
cumjacent country  with  firing-,  it  has  been  always  a  custom  to  arrange 

the  coppices  in  a  regular  progression  so  as  to  cut  two  or  more  annually 

There  are  however  two  coppices  (which  contain  a  great  quantity  of  fine 
timber)  exempt  from  commonage;  and  as  none  of  the  stated  periods  for 

the 


JUNIUS.  85 

the  community  is  interested. — I  will  not  scruple  to  say,  that 
the  very  being  of  that  law,  of  that  right,  of  that  constitution, 
for  which  we  have  been  so  long  contending,  is  now  at  stake. 
They,  who  would  ensnare  your  judgment,  tell  you,  it  is  a 
common,  ordinary  case,  and  to  be  decided  by  ordinary  prece- 
dent and  practice.  They  artfully  conclude,  from  moderate 
peaceable  times,  to  times  which  are  not  moderate,  and  which 
ought  not  to  be  peaceable. — While  they  solict  your  favour, 
they  insist  upon  a  rule  of  rotation,  which  excludes  all  idea 
of  election*. 

the  others  are  yet  expired,  though  they  are  too  young1,  yet  rather  than 
withhold  the  wood  from  the  navy  the  Duke  lias  given  orders  for  fencing 
and  clearing  them,  which  will  be  effected  long  ere  the  proper  season  ar- 
rives for  felling  the  trees. — The  rest  will  be  cut  as  they  fall  in  course. — 
"  Mr.  Junius,  this  is  fact  no'  declamation" — The  oaks  will  come  down; 
the  King  will  not  be  defrauded;  nor  will  the  navy  of  England  perish  for 
want  <>f  them! 

How  must  it  scandalize  all  our  patriots  that  their  omniscient  Junius 
should  discover  such  consummate  ignorance,  as  to  be  reduced  to  the  ne- 
cessity of  examining  the  original  grant,  to  inform  himself  of  a  notorious 
point,  which  he  might  have  learned  from  every  attorney's  clerk  throughout 
the  kingdom;  nay  even  from  Brass  Crosby,  who  was  only  a  menial  ser- 
vant to  an  .  ttorney,  "  that  the  timber  in  royal  forests  is  reserved  for  the 
use  of  the  crown?" 

This  I  say  may  serve  for  a  damning  proof  of  Julius's  veracity — and  all 
his  slanderous  productions  are  equally  refutable  and  false. — In  the  abun- 
dance of  his  modest}-,  he  has  somewhere  told  us  that  his  writings  will 
be  handed  down  to  posterity  like  the  bible! — It  is  needless  for  me  to  cen- 
sure his  irreverent  comnarison;  nor  will  I  altogether  deny  his  prediction; 
for  while  the  bible  endures  as  a  monument  of  truth,  his  writings  may 
stand  in  odious  contrast  as  a  monument  of  lies. 

Edit.  Philalethes. 

*  By  the  ordinary  rotation  of  office,  the  mayoralty  of  the  ensuing  year,  it 
was  well  known,  would  pass  into  the  hands  of  Alderman  Nash,  whose 
political  views  concurred  with  those  of  the  existing  administration:  and 
the  object  of  the  present  Letter  therefore  is  to  persuade  the  Livery  to 
overlook  Mr.  Nash,  and  by  an  extraordinary  exercise  of  their  election 
franchise,  to  return  Mr.  Crosby  or  Mr.  Sawbridge  in  his  stead,  whose  po- 
litics were  well  known  to  be  of  the  Whig  school.  But  the  divisions  which 
had  been  introduced  into  the  Bill  of  Rights  Society,  through  the  vanity 
of  Oliver  and  Home,  h.td  now  spread  to  the  city,  and  almost  ruined  the 

popular  cause.  Many  were  suspicious  of  the  purity  of  its  leaders and 

still  more  were  grown  indifferent  ai  to  its  result. — The  motives  urge.!  by 

Junius 


86  LETTERS  (Jl 

Let  me  be  honoured  with  a  few  minutes  ot"  your  attention. 
— The  quesiioii,  to  those  who  mean  fairly  to  the  liberty  of 
the  people,  (which  we  all  profess  to  have  in  view)  lies  within 
a  very  narrow  compass. — Do  you  mean  to  desert  that  just 
and  honourable  system  of  measures  which  you  have  hitherto 
pursued,  in  hopes  of  obtaining  from  parliament  or  from  the 
crown,  a  full  redress  of  past  grievances,  and  a  security  for 
the  future? — Do  you  think  the  cause  desperate,  and  will  you 
declare,  that  you  think  so  to  the  whole  people  of  England? 
—If  this  be  your  meaning  and  opinion,  you  will  act  con- 
sistently with  it,  in  choosing  Mr.  Nash. — I  profess  to  be 
unacquainted  with  his  private  character.  But  he  has  acted 
as  a  magistrate, — as  a  public  man. — As  such  I  speak  of 
him. — I  see  his  name  in  a  protest  against  one  of  your  re- 
monstrances to  the  crown He  has  done  every  thing  in  his 

power  to  destroy  the  freedom  of  popular  elections  in  the 
city,  by  publishing  the  poll  upon  a  former  occasion;  and  I 
know,  in  general,  that  he  has  distinguished  himself,  by 
slighting  and  thwarting  all  those  public  measures,  which  you 
have  engaged  in  with  the  greatest  warmth,  and  hitherto 
thought  most  worthy  of  your  approbation. — From  his  past 
conduct  what  conclusion  will  you  draw,  but  that  he  will  act 
the  same  part  as  Lord  Mayor,  which  he  has  invariably  acted 
as  Alderman  and  Sheriff?  He  cannot  alter  his  conduct, 
without  confessing  that  he  never  acted  upon  principle  of  any 
kind.— I  should  be  sorry  to  injure  the  character  of  a  man, 
who  perhaps  may  be  honest  in  his  intention,  by  supposing  it 
possible,  that  he  can  ever  concur  with  you  in  any  political 
measure,  or  opinion. 

If,  on  the  other  hand,  you  mean  to  persevere  in  those  re- 
solutions for  the  public  good,  which,  though  not  always  suc- 
cessful, are  always  honourable,  your  choice  will  naturally  in- 
cline to  those  men,  who,  (whatever  they  be  in  other  respects,) 
are  most  likely  to  co-operate  with  you  in  the  great  purposes 
which  you  are  determined  not  to  relinquish: — The  question 

Junius  and  Iiis  party  were  not  deemed  of  sufficient  importance  to  violate 
an  established  custom,  and  Mr.  Nash  Mas  elected  Lord  Mayor.  Edit. 


JUNIUS.  87 

is  not,  of  what  metal  your  instruments  are  made,  but  zvhethet 
they  are  adapted  to  the  work  you  have  in  hand?  The  honours 
of  the  city,  in  these  times,  are  improperly,  because  exclusively, 
called  a  rexvard.  You  mean  not  merely  to  pay,  but  to  em- 
ploy.— Are  Mr.  Crosby  and  Mr.  Sazvbridge  likely  to  exe- 
cute the  extraordinary,  as  well  as  the  ordinary  duties  of  Lord 
Mayor? — Will  they  grant  you  common  halls  when  it  shall  be 
necessary? — Will  they  go  up  with  remonstrances  to  the  King? 
—Have  they  firmness  enough  to  meet  the  fury  of  a  venal 
House  of  Commons? — Have  they  fortitude  enough  not  to 
shrink  at  imprisonment? — Have  they  spirit  enough  to  hazard 
their  lives  and  fortunes  in  a  contest,  if  it  should  be  necessary, 
with  a  prostituted  legislature? — If  these  questions  can  fairly 
be  answered  in  the  affirmative,  your  choice  is  made.  Forgive 
this  passionate  language. — I  am  unable  to  correct  it. — The 
subject  comes  home  to  us  all. — It  is  the  language  of  my 

heart*. 

JUNIUS. 


LETTER  LIX. 

TO   THE   PRINTER  OF    THE  PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 

Sir,  5  October,  1771 

No  man  laments,  more  sincerely  than  I  do,  the  unhappy 
differences,  which  have  arisen  among  the  friends  of  the  peo- 
ple, and  divided  them  from  each  other.  The  cause  undoubt- 
edly suffers,  as  well  by  the  diminution  of  that  strength,  which 
union  carries  with  it,  as  by  the  separate  loss  of  personal  repu- 
tation, which  every  man  sustains,  when  his  character  and 
conduct  are  frequently  held  forth  in  odious  or  contemptible 

colours. These  differences  are  only  advantageous  to  the 

common  enemy  of  the  country. — The  hearty  friends  of  the 
cause  are  provoked  and  disgusted. — The  lukewarm  advocate 
avails  himself  of  any  pretence  to  relapse  into  that  indolent 
indifference  about  every  thing  that  ought  to  interest  an  Eng- 
lishman, so  unjustly  dignified  with  the  title  of  modera- 
tion.——The  false,  insidious  partisan,  who  creates  or  fo- 

*  See  Private  Letters,  Nos.  56  and  63.  Edit. 


88  LETTERS  OF 

ments  the  disorder,  sees  the  fruit  of  his  dishonest  industry 
ripen  beyond  his  hopes,  and  rejoices  in  the  promise  of  a  ban- 
quet, only  delicious  to  such  an  appetite  as  his  own. — It  is 
time  for  those,  who  really  mean  the  Cause  and  the  People*  % 
who  have  no  view  to  private  advantage,  and  who  have  virtue 
enough  to  prefer  the  general  good  of  the  community  to  the 
gratification  of  personal  animosities, — it  is  time  for  such  men 
to  interpose. — Let  us  try  whether  these  fatal  dissentions  may 
not  yet  be  reconciled;  or,  if  that  be  impracticable,  let  us  guard 
at  least  against  the  worst  effects  of  division,  and  endeavour 
to  persuade  these  furious  partisans,  if  they  will  not  consent 
to  draw  together,  to  be  separately  useful  to  that  cause,  which 
they  all  pretend  to  be  attached  to. — Honour  and  honesty 
must  not  be  renounced,  although  a  thousand  modes  of  right 
and  wrong  were  to  occupy  the  degrees  of  morality  between 
Zeno  and  Epicurus*  The  fundamental  principles  of  Chris- 
tianity may  still  be  preserved,  though  every  zealous  sectary 
adheres  to  his  own  exclusive  doctrine,  and  pious  Ecclesias- 
tics make  it  part  of  their  religion  to  persecute  one  another. 
The  civil  constitution  too,  that  legal  liberty,  that  general 
creed,  which  every  Englishman  professes,  may  still  be  sup- 
ported, though  Wilkes,  and  Home,  and  Townshend,  and 
Sawbridge,  should  obstinately  refuse  to  communicate,  and 
even  if  the  fathers  of  the  church,  if  Savile,  Richmond,  Cam- 
den, Rockingham,  and  Chatham,  should  disagree  in  the 
ceremonies  of  their  political  worship,  and  even  in  the  inter- 
pretation of  twenty  texts  in  Magna  Charta. — I  speak  to  the 
people  as  one  of  the  people.— Let  us  employ  these  men  in 
whatever  departments  their  various  abilities  are  best  suited 
to,  and  as  much  to  the  advantage  of  the  common  cause,  as 
their  different  inclinations  will  permit.  They  cannot  serve  us, 
without  essentially  serving  themselves. 

If  Mr.  Nash  be  elected,  he  will  hardly  venture,  after  so 
recent  a  mark  of  the  personal  esteem  of  his  fellow-citizens, 
to  declare  himself  immediately  a  courtier.  The  spirit  and 
activity  of  the  Sheriffs  will,  I  hope,  be  sufficient  to  counter- 

*  See  Private  Letter,  No.  63.  Edit. 


JUNIUS.  89 

act  any  sinister  intentions  of  the  Lord  Mayor.  In  collision 
With  their  virtue,  perhaps  he  may  take  fire. 

It  is  not  necessary  to  exact  from  Mr.  Wilkes  the  virtues 
of  a  Stoic.  They  were  inconsistent  with  themselves,  who,  al- 
most at  the  same  moment,  represented  him  as  the  basest  of 
mankind,  yet  seemed  to  expect  from  him  such  instances  of 
fortitude  and  self-denial,  as  would  do  honour  to  an  apostle. 
It  is  not  however  flattery  to  say,  that  he  is  obstinate,  intrepid, 
and  fertile  in  expedients. — That  he  has  no  possible  resource, 
but  in  the  public  favour,  is,  in  my  judgment,  a  considerable 
recommendation  of  him.  I  wish  that  every  man,  who  pre- 
tended to  popularity,  were  in  the  same  predicament.  I  wish 
that  a  retreat  to  St.  James's  were  not  so  easy  and  open,  as 
Patriots  have  found  it.  To  Mr.  Wilkes  there  is  no  access. 
However  he  may  be  misled  by  passion  or  imprudence,  I 
think  he  cannot  be  guilty  of  a  deliberate  treachery  to  the 
public.  The  favour  of  his  country  constitutes  the  shield  which 
defends  him  against  a  thousand  o  aggers.— Desertion  would 
disarm  him. 

I  can  more  readily  admire  the  liberal  spirit  and  integrity, 
than  the  sound  judgment  of  any  man,  who  prefers  a  republi- 
can form  of  government,  in  this  or  any  other  empire  of  equal 
extent,  to  a  monarchy  so  qualified  and  limited  as  ours.  I  am 
convinced,  that  neither  is  it  in  theory  the  wisest  system  of  go- 
vernment, nor  practicable  in  this  country.  Yet,  though  I  hope 
the  English  constitution  will  for  ever  preserve  its  original 
monarchical  form,  I  would  have  the  manners  of  the  people 
purely  and  strictly  republican. — I  do  not  mean  the  licentious 
spirit  of  anarchy  and  riot. — I  mean  a  general  attachment  to 
the  common  weal,  distinct  from  any  partial  attachment  to  per- 
sons or  families; — an  implicit  submission  to  the  laws  only, 
and  an  affection  to  the  magistrate,  proportioned  to  the  inte- 
grity and  wisdom,  with  which  he  distributes  justice  to  his  peo- 
ple, and  admiuisters  their  affairs.  The  present  habit  of  our 
political  body  appears  to  me  the  very  reverse  of  what  it  ought 
to  be.  The  form  of  the  constitution  leans  rather  more  than 
enough  to  the  popular  branch;  while  in  effect,  the  manners 
of  the  people  (of  those  at  least  who  are  likelv  to  take  a  l<°ad 

Vol.  II.  M 


90  LETTERS  OF 

in  the  country)  incline  too  generally  to  a  dependance  upon 
the  crown.  The  real  friends  of  arbitrary  power  combine  the 
facts,  and  are  not  inconsistent  with  their  principles,  when 
they  strenuously  support  the  unwarrantable  privileges  as- 
sumed by  the  House  of  Commons. — In  these  circumstances, 
it  were  much  to  be  desired,  that  we  had  many  such  men  as 
Mr.  Sawbridge  to  represent  us  in  parliament. — I  speak  from 
common  report  and  opinion  only,  when  I  impute  to  him  a 
speculative  predilection  in  favour  of  a  republic. — In  the  per- 
sonal conduct  and  manners  of  the  man,  I  cannot  be  mistaken. 
He  has  shewn  himself  possessed  of  that  republican  firmness, 
which  the  times  require,  and  by  which  an  English  gentleman 
may  be  as  usefully  and  as  honourably  distinguished,  as  any 
citizen  of  ancient  Rome,  of  Athens,  or  Lacedaemon. 

Mr.  Townshend  complains,  that  the  public  gratitude  has 
not  been  answerable  to  his  deserts. — It  is  not  difficult  to 
trace  the  artifices,  which  have  suggested  to  him  a  language, 
so  unworthy  of  his  understanding.  A  great  man  commands 
the  affections  of  the  people.  A  prudent  man  does  not  com- 
plain when  he  has  lost  them.  Yet  they  are  far  from  being 
lost  to  Mr.  Townshend.  He  has  treated  our  opinion  a  little 
too  cavalierly.  A  young  man  is  apt  to  rely  too  confidently 
upon  himself,  to  be  as  attentive  to  his  mistress,  as  a  polite 
and  passionate  lover  ought  to  be.  Perhaps  he  found  her  at 
first  too  easy  a  conquest.— Yet,  I  fancy,  she  will  be  ready 
to  receive  him,  whenever  he  thinks  proper  to  renew  his  ad- 
dresses. With  all  his  youth,  his  spirit,  and  his  appearance, 
it  would  be  indecent  in  the  lady  to  solicit  his  return. 

I  have  too  much  respect  for  the  abilities  of  Mr.  Home, 
to  flatter  myself  that  these  gentlemen  will  ever  be  cordially 
re-united.  It  is  not,  however,  unreasonable  to  expect,  that 
each  of  them  should  act  his  separate  part,  with  honour  and 
integrity  to  the  public. — As  for  differences  of  opinion  upon 
speculative  questions,  if  we  wait  until  they  are  reconciled, 
the  action  of  human  affairs  must  be  suspended  for  ever.  But 
neither  are  we  to  look  for  perfection  in  any  one  man,  nor  for 
agreement  among  many. — When  Lord  Chatham  affirms,  that 
the  authority  of  the  British  legislature  is  not  supreme  over 


JUNIUS.  91 

the  colonies,  in  the  same  sense  in  which  it  is  supreme  over 

Great  Britain; when  Lord  Camden  supposes  a  necessity, 

(which  the  King  is  to  judge  of)  and,  founded  upon  that  ne- 
cessity, attributes  to  the  crown  a  legal  power  (not  given  by 
the  act  itself)  to  suspend  the  operation  of  an  act  of  the  legis- 
lature,— I  listen  to  them  both  with  diffidence  and  respect, 
but  without  the  smallest  degree  of  conviction  or  assent.  Yet, 
I  doubt  not,  they  delivered  their  real  sentiments,  nor  ought 
they  to  be  hastily  condemned. — I  too  have  a  claim  to  the 
candid  interpretation  of  my  country,  when  I  acknowledge 
an  involuntary  compulsive  assent  to  one  very  unpopular  opi- 
nion. I  lament  the  unhappy  necessity,  whenever  it  arises,  of 
providing  for  the  safety  of  the  state,  by  a  temporary  invasion 
of  the  personal  liberty  of  the  subject*.  Would  to  God  it 
were  practicable  to  reconcile  these  important  objects,  in 
every  possible  situation  of  public  affairs! — I  regard  the  le- 
gal liberty  of  the  meanest  man  in  Britain,  as  much  as  my 
own,  and  would  defend  it  with  the  same  zeal.  I  know  we 
must  stand  or  fall  together.  But  I  never  can  doubt,  that  the 
community  has  a  right  to  command,  as  well  as  to  purchase, 
the  service  of  its  members.  I  see  that  right  founded  origin- 
ally upon  a  necessity,  which  supersedes  all  argument.  I  see 
it  established  by  usage  immemorial,  and  admitted  by  more 
than  a  tacit  assent  of  the  legislature.  I  conclude  there  is  no 
remedy,  in  the  nature  of  things,  for  the  grievance  complain- 
ed of;  for,  if  there  were,  it  must  long  since  have  been  re- 
dressed. Though  numberless  opportunities  have  presented 
themselves,  highly  favourable  to  public  liberty,  no  successful 
attempt  has  ever  been  made  for  the  relief  of  the  subject  in 
this  article.  Yet  it  has  been  felt  and  complained  of,  ever 
since  England  had  a  navy. — The  conditions,  which  consti- 
tute this  right,  must  be  taken  together.  Separately,  they  have 
little  weight.  It  is  not  fair  to  argue,  from  any  abuse  in  the 
execution,  to  the  illegality  of  the  power;  much  less  is  a  con- 
clusion to  be  drawn  from  the  navy  to  the  land  service.   A 

*  He  alludes  to  the  practice  of  impressing  men  for  sea  service:  the  le- 
gality of  which  he  allows,  but  confines  it  to  seafaring  men  alone.  Edit 


92  LETTERS  OF 

seaman  can  never  be  employed  but  against  the  enemies  of 
his  country*.  The  only  case  in  which  the  King  can  have  a 
right  to  arm  his  subjects  in  general,  is  that  of  a  foreign  force 
being  actually  landed  upon  our  coast.   Whenever  that  case 

*  At  the  time  when  the  dispute  between  this  country  and  Spain  existed, 
relative  to  Falkland's  Islands,  for  a  brief  account  of  which,  see  note  to 
Miscellaneous  Letters,  No.  lxxxviii.  under  a  persuasion  that  war  was 
inevitable,  an  armament  took  place,  and  press-warrants  were  issued.  The 
legality  of  these,  in  regard  to  the  city,  though  backed  by  the  Lord  Mayor, 
was  questioned  by  Mr.  Wilkes,  and  several  other  aldermen,  who  dis- 
charged all  persons  brought  before  them  so  impressed.  In  consequence 
of  these  discordant  views  of  the  subject,  the  three  following  questions 
were  submitted,  by  the  Lord  Mayor,  to  the  opinion  of  three  of  the  most 
celebrated  counsel  of  the  day,  which,  together  with  their  answers,  it  has 
been  thought  right  to  subjoin. 

fihiery  1.  May  the  Lords  of  the  admiralty  of  themselves,  by  virtue  of 
their  commission,  or  under  the  direction  of  the  Privy  Council,  legally  issue 
warrants  for  the  impressing  of  seamen? 

Q  2-  If  yea,  is  the  warrant  annexed  in  point  of  form  legal? 

<5>.  3.  Is  the  Lord  Mayor  compellable  to  back  sucli  warrants?  if  he  is, 
what  may  be  the  consequence  of  a  refusal? 

'•  The  power  of  the  crown  to  compel  persons  pursuing  the  employment 
and  occupation  of  seamen  to  serve  the  public  in  times  of  danger  and  ne- 
cessity, which  has  its  foundation  in  that  universal  principle  of  the  laws  of 
all  countries,  that  all  private  interest  must  give  way  to  the  public  safety, 
appears  to  us  to  be  well  established  by  ancient  and  long  continued  usage, 
frequently  recognized,  and  in  many  instances,  regulated  by  the  legislature, 
and  noticed  at  least  without  censure  by  courts  of  justice;  and  we  see  no 
objection  to  this  power  being  exercised  by  the  Lords  of  the  Admiralty 
under  the  authority  of  his  Majesty's  orders  in  council. 

"  The  form  of  the  warrant,  as  well  as  the  manner  in  which  such  war- 
rants have  been  usually  executed,  appear  to  us  to  be  liable  to  man}'  con- 
siderable objections;  but  the  nature  of  those  objections  lead  us  to  think  it 
the  more  expedient,  that  the  authority  of  a  civil  magistrate  should  inter- 
pose in  the  execution  of  them  to  check  and  controul  the  abuses  to  which 
they  are  liable;  and,  therefore,  although  we  do  not  think  that  the  Lord 
Mayor  is' compellable  to  back  the  warrants,  or  liable  to  any  punishment 
in  case  of  his  refusal,  we  think  it  right  to  submit  it  to  his  Lordship's  con- 
sideration, whether  it  will  not  be  more  conducive  to  the  preservation  of 
the  peace  of  the  city,  and  the  protection  of  the  subject  from  oppression, 
if  he  conforms,  in  this  instance,  to  what  we  understand  to  have  been  the 
practice  of  most  of  his  predecessors  upon  the  like  occasion. 

Al.  Wedderburn, 
J.  Glynn, 

\o7 ember '22nd,  1770.  J.  Dunning."  Epit. 


JUNIUS.  95 

happens,  no  true  Englishman  will  enquire,  whether  the 
King's  right  to  compel  him  to  defend  his  country  be  the 
custom  of  England,  or  a  grant  of  the  legislature.  With 
regard  to  the  press  for  seamen,  it  does  not  follow  that  the 
symptoms  may  not  be  softened,  although  the  distemper  can- 
not be  cured.  Let  bounties  be  increased  as  far  as  the  public 
purse  can  support  them*.  Still  they  have  a  limit;  and  when 
every  reasonable  expense  is  incurred,  it  will  be  found,  in 
fact,  that  the  spur  of  the  press  is  wanted  to  give  operation 
to  the  bounty. 

Upon  the  whole,  I  never  had  a  doubt  about  the  strict  right 
of  pressing,  until  I  heard  that  Lord  Mansfield  had  applaud- 
ed Lord  Chatham  for  delivering  something  like  this  doctrine 
in  the  House  of  Lords.  That  consideration  staggered  me 
not  a  little.  But,  upon  reflection,  his  conduct  accounts  natu- 
rally for  itself.  He  knew  the  doctrine  was  unpopular,  and 
was  eager  to  fix  it  upon  the  man,  who  is  the  first  object  of 
his  fear  and  detestation.  The  cunning  Scotchman  never 
speaks  truth  without  a  fraudulent  design.  In  council  he 
generally  affects  to  take  a  moderate  part.  Besides  his  natu- 
ral timidity,  it  makes  part  of  his  political  plan,  never  to  be 
known  to  recommend  violent  measures.  When  the  guards 
are  called  forth  to  murder  their  fellow-subjects,  it  is  not  by 
the  ostensible  advice  of  Lord  Mansfield.  That  odious  office, 
his  prudence  tells  him,  is  better  left  to  such  men  as  Gower 
and  Weymouth,  as  Barrington  and  Grafton.  Lord  Hillsbo- 
rough wisely  confines  his  firmness  to  the  distant  Americans. 
— The  designs  of  Mansfield  are  more  subtle,  more  effectual, 
and  secure.— -Who  attacks  the  liberty  of  the  press? — Lord 
Mansfield. — Who  invades  the  constitutional  power  of  juries? 
■ — Lord  Mansfield. — What  judge  ever  challenged  a  jury- 
man, but  Lord  Mansfield? — Who  was  that  judge,  who,  to 
save  the  King's  brother,  affirmed  that  a  man  of  the  first  rank 
and  quality,  who  obtains  a  verdict  in  a  suit  for  criminal 

*This  suggestion  of  the  author  was  adopted  by  the  cities  of  London. 
Bristol,  and  Edinburgh;  and  the  towns  of  Montrose,  Aberdeen,  Camble 
town  and  Lvnn.     Edit. 


94  LETTERS  OF 

conversation,  is  entitled  to  no  greater  damages  than  the 
meanest  mechanic? — Lord  Mansfield. — Who  is  it  makes 
commissioners  of  the  great  seal? — Lord  Mansfield. — Who 
is  it  forms  a  decree  for  those  commissioners,  deciding 
against  Lord  Chatham*,  and  afterwards  (finding  himself 
opposed  by  the  judges)  declares  in  parliament,  that  he  never 
had  a  doubt  the  law  was  in  direct  opposition  to  that  decree? 
— Lord  Mansfield. — Who  is  he,  that  has  made  it  the  stud)' 
and  practice  of  his  life,  to  undermine  and  alter  the  whole 
system  of  jurisprudence  in  the  court  of  King's  Bench? — 
Lord  Mansfield.  There  never  existed  a  man  but  himself, 
who  answered  exactly  to  so  complicated  a  description.  Com- 
pared to  these  enormities,  his  original  attachment  to  the 
Pretender,  (to  whom  his  dearest  brother  was  confidential 
secretary)  is  a  virtue  of  the  first  magnitude.  But  the  hour 
of  impeachment  rw//come,  and  neither  he  nor  Grafton  shall 
escape  me.  Now  let  them  make  common  cause  against  Eng- 
land and  the  house  of  Hanover.  A  Stuart  and  a  Murray 
should  sympathise  with  each  other. 

When  I  refer  to  signal  instances  of  unpopular  opinions 
delivered  and  maintained  by  men,  who  may  well  be  supposed 
to  have  no  view  but  the  public  good,  I  do  not  mean  to  renew 
the  discussions  of  such  opinions.  I  should  be  sorry  to  revive 
the  dormant  questions  of  Stamp-act,  Corn-bill,  or  Press-war- 
rant. I  mean  only  to  illustrate  one  useful  proposition,  which 
it  is  the  intention  of  this  paper  to  inculcate; — That  we  should 
not  generally  reject  the  friendship  or  services  of  any  man,  be- 
cause  he  differs  from  us  in  a  particular  opinion.  This  will  not 
appear  a  superfluous  caution,  if  we  observe  the  ordinary  corir 
duct  of  mankind.  In  public  affairs,  there  is  the  least  chance 
of  a  perfect  concurrence  of  sentiment  or  inclination.  Yet 
every7  man  is  able  to  contribute  something  to  the  common 
stock,  and  no  man's  contribution  should  be  rejected.  If  in- 
dividuals have  no  virtues,  their  vices  may  be  of  use  to  us.  I 
care  not  with  what  principle  the  new-born  patriot  is  animat- 
ed, if  the  measures  he  supports  are  beneficial  to  the  commu- 

v  On  the  Burton  Pynsent  estate,  which  was  disputed  by  the  relatives  of 
the  deceased  with  the  Earl  of  Chatham.   See  note  p.  103.  Edit. 


JUNIUS.  95 

nity.  The  nation  is  interested  in  his  conduct.  His  motives 
are  his  own.  The  properties  of  a  patriot  are  perishable  in  the 
individual,  but  there  is  a  quick  succession  of  subjects,  and 
the  breed  is  worth  preserving. — The  spirit  of  the  Americans 
may  be  an  useful  example  to  us.  Our  dogs  and  horses  are 
only  English  upon  English  ground;  but  patriotism,  it  seems, 
may  be  improved  by  transplanting. — I  will  not  reject  a  bill, 
which  tends  to  confine  parliamentary  privilege  within  rea- 
sonable bounds,  though  it  should  be  stolen  from  the  house 
of  Cavendish,  and  introduced  by  Mr.  Onslow.  The  features 
of  the  infant  are  a  proof  of  the  descent,  and  vindicate  the 
noble  birth,  from  the  baseness  of  the  adoption. — I  willingly 
accept  of  a  sarcasm  from  Colonel  Barre,  or  a  simile  from 
Mr.  Burke.  Even  the  silent  vote  of  Mr.  Calcraft  is  worth 
reckoning  in  a  division. — What  though  he  riots  in  the  plun- 
der of  the  army,  and  has  only  determined  to  be  a  patriot, 
when  he  could  not  be  a  peer*?  Let  us  profit  by  the  assistance 
of  such  men,  while  they  are  with  us,  and  place  them,  if  it  be 
possible,  in  the  post  of  danger,  to  prevent  desertion.  The 
wary  Wedderburne,  the  pompous  Suffolk],  never  threw  away 
the  scabbard,  nor  ever  went  upon  a  forlorn  hope.  They  al- 
ways treated  f1  e  King's  servants  as  men,  with  whom,  some 
time  or  otl  .«,  they  might  possibly  be  in  friendship. — When 
a  man  whc  stands  forth  for  the  public,  has  gone  that  length, 
from  which  there  is  no  practicable  retreat, — when  he  has 
given  that  kind  of  personal  offence,  which  a  pious  monarch 
never  pardons,  I  then  begin  to  think  him  in  earnest,  and  that 
he  will  never  have  occasion  to  solicit  the  forgiveness  of  his 

*  Calcraft  was  introduced  into  political  notice  by  Lord  Holland,  to  whom 
he  had  been  private  secretary,  and  afterwards  accumulated  an  immense 
private  property,  by  becoming  army  agent.  He  subsequently  deserted  his 
patron,  and  strove  to  obtain  a  peerage  from  administration.  He  died  with- 
out having  obtained  his  object.  One  of  his  mistresses  was  the  celebrated 
George  Ann  Bellamy.  Edit. 

f  In  allusion  to  his  Lordship's  manner.  Yet  it  must  also  be  recollected 
that  he  headed  the  renegado  Whigs  who  deserted  to  the  ministry  on  the 
death  of  George  Grenville.  See  Miscellaneous  Letters,  No.  xcvi.  and 
xcvu.  in  which  his  Lordship's  conduct  is  reprobated  in  very  severe  t^rms, 
particularlv  so  in  the  latter.  Edit 


96  LETTERS  OF 

country.— But  instances  of  a  determination  so  entire  aud 
unreserved  are  rarely  met  with.  Let  us  take  mankind  as  they 
are.  Let  us  distribute  the  virtues  and  abilities  of  individuals, 
according  to  the  offices  they  affect,  and  when  they  quit  the 
service,  let  us  endeavour  to  supply  their  places  with  better 
men  than  we  have  lost.  In  this  country,  there  are  always 
candidates  enough  for  popular  favour.  The  temple  of  fame 
is  the  shortest  passage  to  riches  and  preferment. 

Above  all  things,  let  me  guard  my  countrymen  against  the 
meanness  and  folly  of  accepting  of  a  trifling  or  moderate 
compensation  for  extraordinary  and  essential  injuries.  Our 
enemies  treat  us,  as  the  cunning  trader  does  the  unskilful 
Indian.  They  magnify  their  generosity,  when  they  give  us 
baubles,  of  little  proportionate  value,  for  ivory  and  gold. 
The  same  House  of  Commons,  who  robbed  the  constituent 
body  of  their  right  of  free  election;  who  presumed  to  make  a 
law  under  pretence  of  declaring  it*;  who  paid  our  good 
King's  debts,  without  once  inquiring  how  they  were  incurred; 
who  gave  thanks  for  repeated  murders  committed  at  home, 
and  for  national  infamy  incurred  abroad;  who  screened  Lord 
Mansfield;  who  imprisoned  the  magistrates  of  the  metropolis, 
for  asserting  the  subject's  right  to  the  protection  of  the  laws; 
who  erased  a  judicial  record,  and  ordered  all  proceedings  in 
a  criminal  suit  to  be  suspendedf ; — this  very  House  of  Com- 
mons have  graciously  consented,  that  their  own  members 
may  be  compelled  to  pay  their  debts,  and  that  contested  elec- 
tions shall  for  the  future  be  determined  with  some  decent 
regard  to  the  merits  of  the  case.  The  event  of  the  suit  is  of 
no  consequence  to  the  crown.  While  parliaments  are  septen- 
nial, the  purchase  of  the  sitting  member  or  of  the  petitioner 
makes  but  the  difference  of  a  day. — Concessions,  such  as 
these,  are  of  little  moment  to  the  sum  of  things;  unless  it  be 
to  prove,  that  the  worst  of  men  are  sensible  of  the  injuries 
they  have  done  us,  and  perhaps  to  demonstrate  to  us  the  im- 
minent danger  of  our  situation.  In  the  shipwreck  of  the  state, 

*  The  Nullum  Tcmpus  bill  which  was  passed  in  the  year  1769.  Edit. 
j  For  a  further  explanation  on  this  subject,  see  note  to  Miscellaneous 
.Letters,  No.  xcu.  Edit. 


JUNIUS.  97 

trifles  float  and  are  preserved;  while  every  thing  solid  and 
valuable  sinks  to  the  bottom,  and  is  lost  forever. 

JUNIUS. 


LETTER  LX. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC  AHVERTISER. 
Sir,  15  October  1771. 

I  am  convinced  that  Junius  is  incapable  of  wilfully  mis- 
representing any  man's  opinion,  and  that  his  inclination  leads 
him  to  treat  Lord  Camden  with  particular  candour  and  res- 
pect. The  doctrine  attributed  to  him  by  Junius,  as  far  as 
it  goes,  corresponds  with  that  stated  by  your  correspondent 
Sccevola*,  who  seems  to  me  to  make  a  distinction  without  a 
difference.  Lord  Camden,  it  is  agreed,  did  certainly  maintain 

*  The  letter  of  Scsevola  here  referred  to,  occurs  in  the  Public  Adver- 
tiser of  October  12,  and  is  as  follows: 

TO  JUNIUS. 

Sir, 

You  have  mistaken  Lord  Camden's  opinion,  and  changed  it  into  as  weak 
and  mischievous  a  tenet  as  could  have  proceeded  from  Scroggs  or  Jeffe- 
ries.  You  have  made  it  the  counterpart  of  the  ship-money  doctrine.  In 
this  representation  you  follow  Lord  Mansfield,  who  gave  that  colour  to 
the  argument  in  the  House  of  Lords.  The  great  point  of  difference  be- 
tween the  representation  and  the  truth  is,  that  the  former  makes  Lord  Cam- 
den pronounce  the  King  judge  of  the  necessity,  and  the  latter,  viz.  my 
Lord  Camden's  real  speech  makes  parliament  the  judge  of  it,  and  exposes 
the  head  of  the  minister  who  advised  the  illegal  act  upon  the  plea  of  its 
necessity  to  the  mercy  of  parliament.  Lord  Camden's  opinion,  which  I 
heard  him  twice  deliver  in  the  House  of  Lords,  was  this: — That  "  if  the 
King  should,  in  the  recess  of  parliament,  issue  a  proclamation,  directing  a 
step  to  be  taken  fiat  against  a  subsisting  law,  and  at  the  next  meeting  of 
parliament,  the  step  should  appear  to  tliem  to  have  been  necessary  for  the 
good  of  the  state,  their  declaration  of  that  necessity  would  operate  as  a  re- 
trospect, so  as  to  make  the  act  ljegal  ab  initio" — (which  is  an  idea  coun- 
tenanced by  Mr.  Locke.) 

That  this  was  the  scope  and  tenor  of  the  noble  Lord's  argument,  I  ap- 
peal to  himself  and  all  that  heard  him. — Whether  the  opinion,  so  restored, 
be  or  be  not  erroneous  in  point  of  law,  is  a  question  foreign  to  this  letter, 
which  has  no  other  view  but  to  convince  the  public,  that  his  Lordship 
never  delivered  that  pernicious  and  foolish  opinion  which  Junius,  by 
VOL.  II.  N  mistake, 


98  LETTERS  OF 

that,  in  the  recess  of  parliament,  the  King,  (by  which  we  au 
mean  the  King  in  council,  or  the  executive  power)  might  sus- 
pend the  operation  of  an  act  of  the  legislature;  and  he  found- 
ed his  doctrine  upon  a  supposed  necessity,  of  which  the 
King,  in  the  Jirst  instance,  must  be  judge.  The  Lords  and 
Commons  cannot  be  judges  of  it  in  the  first  instance,  for 
they  do  not  exist. — Thus  far  Junius. 

But,  says  Sccevola,  Lord  Camden  made  parliament,  and  not 
the  King,  judges  of  the  necessity. — That  parliament  may 
review  the  acts  of  ministers  is  unquestionable;  but  there  is  a 
wide  difference  between  saying  that  the  crown  has  a  legal 
power,  and,  that  ministers  may  act  at  their  peril  When  we 
say  an  act  is  illegal,  we  mean  that  it  is  forbidden  by  a  joint 
resolution  of  the  three  estates.  How  a  subsequent  resolution 
of  two  of  those  branches  can  make  it  legal  ab  initio^  will  re- 
quire explanation.  If  it  could,  the  consequence  would  be 
truly  dreadful,  especially  in  these  times.  There  is  no  act  of 
arbitrary  power,  which  the  King  might  not  attribute  to  ne- 
cessity, and  for  which  he  would  not  be  secure  of  obtaining 
the  approbation  of  his  prostituted  lords  and  commons.  If 
Lord  Camden  admits  that  the  subsequent  sanction  of  parlia- 
ment was  necessary  to  make  the  proclamation  legal,  why  did 
he  so  obstinately  oppose  the  bill,  which  was  soon  after  brought 
in,  for  indemnifying  all  those  persons  who  had  acted  under 
it? — If  that  bill  had  not  been  passed,  I  am  ready  to  maintain, 
in  direct  contradiction  to  Lord  Camden's  doctrine,  (taken  as 
Sccevola  states  it)  that  a  litigious  exporter  of  corn,  who  had 
suffered  in  his  property  in  consequence  of  the  proclamation, 
might  have  laid  his  action  against  the  custom-house  officers, 
and  would  infallibly  have  recovered  damages.  No  jury  could 
refuse  them;  and  if  I,  who  am  by  no  means  litigious,  had 
L>een  so  injured,  I  would  assuredly  have  instituted  a  suit  in 
Westminster-hall,  on  purpose  to  try  the  question  of  right.  I 

mistake,  and  Lord  Mansfield,  by  the  basest  misrepresentation,  has  im- 
puted to  him. 

Sc/evola. 

For  Junius's  opinion  of  this  writer,  see  the  Note  to  Private  Letters, 
SJo.  47.  Edit, 


JUNIUS.  99 

would  have  done  it  upon  a  principle  of  defiance  of  the  pre- 
tended power  of  either  or  both  houses  to  make  declarations 
inconsistent  with  law,  and  I  have  no  doubt,  that,  with  an  act 
of  parliament  on  my  side,  I  should  have  been  too  strong  for 
them  all.  This  is  the  way,  in  which  an  Englishman  should 
speak  and  act,  and  not  suffer  dangerous  precedents  to  be 
established,  because  the  circumstances  are  favourable  or 
palliating. 

With  regard  to  Lord  Camden,  the  truth  is,  that  he  inad- 
vertently over-shot  himself,  as  appears  plainly  by  that  un- 
guarded mention  of  a  tyranny  of  forty  days,  which  I  myself 
heard.  Instead  of  asserting  that  the  proclamation  was  legal, 
he  should  have  said,  "  My  Lords,  I  know  the  proclamation 
was  illegal,  but  I  advised  it  because  it  was  indispensably  ne- 
cessary to  save  the  kingdom  from  famine,  and  I  submit  my- 
self to  the  justice  and  mercy  of  my  country." 

Such  language  as  this  would  have  been  manly,  rational, 
and  consistent: — not  unfit  for  a  lawyer,  and  every  way  wor- 
thy of  a  great  man. 

PHILO  JUNIUS. 

P.  S.  If  Scxvola  should  think  proper  to  write  again  upon 
this  subject,  I  beg  of  him  to  give  me  a  direct  answer,  that  is, 
a  plain  affirmative  or  negative,  to  the  following  questions: — 
In  the  interval  between  the  publishing  such  a  proclamation 
(or  order  of  council)  as  that  in  question,  and  its  receiving 
the  sanction  of  the  two  houses,  of  what  nature  is  it — is  it 
legal  or  illegal;  or  is  it  neither  one  nor  the  other? — I  mean 
to  be  candid,  and  will  point  out  to  him  the  consequence  of 
his  answer  either  way. — If  it  be  legal,  it  wants  no  farther 
sanction.  If  it  be  illegal,  the  subject  is  not  bound  to  obey  it, 
consequently  it  is  a  useless,  nugatory  act,  even  as  to  its  de- 
clared purpose.  Before  the  meeting  of  parliament,  the  whole 
mischief,  which  it  means  to  prevent,  will  have  been  com- 
pleted*. 

*  The  following  extract  of  a  subsequent  letter  from  Scaevola,  inserted  in 
the  Public  Advertiser,  October  24,  1771,  proves  sufficiently  that  this  wri- 
ter at  last  admitted  Lord  Camden  to  have  maintained  an  erroneous 
doctrine . 


XOO  LETTERS  OF 


LETTER  LXI. 

TO  ZENO*. 

Sik,  17  October,  177*1. 

The  sophistry  of  your  letter  in  defence  of  Lord  Mansfield 
is  adapted  to  the  character  you  defend.  But  Lord  Mansfield 
is  a  man  of  form,  and  seldom  in  his  behaviour  transgresses 
the  rules  of  decorum.  I  shall  imitate  his  Lordship's  good 
manners,  and  leave  you  in  full  possession  of  his  principles.  I 

"  Mv  Lord  Camden  certainly  thought  the  vote  of  the  two  houses  in  this 
case  equivalent  to  a  parliamentary  declaration:  he  also  thought  such  de- 
claration made  the  act  (illegal  before)  legal  ab  i?iitio.  Now  as  Lord  Cam- 
den is  no  patron  of  mine,  I  am  free  to  declare,  that  I  am  satisfied  he  was 
wrong  in  both  those  points  on  the  foot  of  strict  law;  that  he  was  wrong 
upon  his  conviction  Junius  himself  has  once  admitted;  and  that  he  was 
wrong  upon  fair  and  rational,  though  not  satisfactory,  grounds,  will  appear 
to  every  man  of  good  understanding.  The  shade  between  his  erroneous 
doctrine  and  the  true  one,  being  in  sense  and  reason  hardly  distinguisha- 
ble; both  doctrines  admitthe  proclamation  to  be  illegal,  and  at  the  minister's 
peril  till  the  meeting  of  parliament.  Both  doctrines  admit  the  two  houses 
of  parliament  (in  this  or  that  mode)  sole  judges  of  the  necessity.  Both  doc- 
trines agree  in  exposing  the  minister  to  impeachment,  if  the  two  houses 
of  parliament  should  decide  against  his  plea  of  necessity.  Whether  upon 
the  declaration  of  necessity  the  act  becomes  good  in  law  ab  initio,  or  not, 
is  the  only  question.  Locke  (no  Tory)  holds  the  affirmative.  The  law,  in  my 
opinion,  strictly  taken,  is  in  the  negative;  for  I  conceive  that  nothing  bu& 
an  indemnity -bill  could  justify  the  crown  for  having  superseded  a  positive 
act  of  parliament." 

To  these  remarks  Junius,  on  the  following  day,  puts  the  subjoined 
questions: 

1st.  "  In  what  part  of  Mr.  Locke's  writings  is  it  maintained  that  the 
King  ma}"  suspend  an  act  of  parliament,  and  that  the  subsequent  approba- 
tion of  the  two  Houses  makes  the  suspension  legal  ab  initio,  or  to  that  effect. 
2d.  "  Does  Scxvola  think  that  an  act  of  the  whole  legislature  is  as  easily 
obtained  and  completed,  as  a  vote  of  the  Lords  or  Commons."  The  rest 
is  a  dispute  about  words  not  worth  continuing.  Edit. 

*  The  letter  of  Zeno  here  referred  to  occurs  in  the  Public  Advertiser, 
dated  October  15,  1771,  and  is  addressed  "To  Junius,  alias  Edmund  the 
Jesuit  of  St.  Omer's."  This  writer,  however,  was  not  the  only  one  of  the 
same  period  who  erred  in  attributing  the  Letters  of  J  uxi  us  to  Mr.  Burke. 
See  Preliminary  Essay,  in  which  the  reasons  for  disbelieving  that  gentle- 
man to  have  been  the  author  of  them,  are  more  particularly  given. 

A? 


JUNIUS.  101 

will  not  call  you  liar,  Jesuit,  or  villain;  but  with  all  the  polite- 
ness imaginable,  perhaps  I  may  prove  you  so. 

Like  other  fair  pleaders  in  Lord  Mansfield's  school  of 
justice,  you  answer  Junius  by  misquoting  his  words,  and 

As  Junius  thought  Zeno's  letter  worthy  of  a  reply,  the  reader  may  not 
think  it  unworthy  of  a  perusal.  It  is  as  follows: 

Sir, 

Your  letter  of  the  8th  is  a  greater  miracle  than  any  you  have  hitherto 
produced.  I  do  not  mean  in  its  argument,  language,  and  arrangement.  In 
these  particulars  you  have  been  invested  with  a  creative  power,  and  what- 
ever  you  are  pleased  to  bring  forth,  is  not  for  us  to  approve,  but  to  admire: 
but,  Sir,  your  letter  of  the  8th  is  not  written  in  the  single  spirit  of  calumny; 
you  have  now  turned  the  efforts  which  formerly  were  exerted  in  creating 
divisions  amongst  the  good,  to  cement  those  which  never  fail  to  arise 
amongst  the  bad.  I  have  no  objection  to  your  success  in  this  undertaking. 
Let  the  fathers  of  your  church  and  the  sons  of  the  city  unite.  Let  them 
club  their  arts  and  their  powers.  Let  Wilkes  enjoy  his  fertility  in  expe- 
dients, he  will  have  need  for  it  all.  But  neither  that  fertility,  the  republican 
firmness  of  Sawbridge;  no,  nor  the  youth,  spirit,  and  graces  of  Townshend 
will  avail  to  overturn  the  constitution,  or  even  procure  to  them  or  to  you 
the  ultimate  object  of  your  desires — a  little  money. 

Yet,  Sir,  why,  in  a  letter  professedly  written  to  reconcile  the  patriots  of 
the  city,  do  you  make  a  digression  to  abuse  Lord  Mansfield!  Is  it  because 
of  the  diametrical  opposition  of  his  character  to  theirs?  Certainly  it  must 
be  so;  and  Junius  is  less  a  fool  than  I  believed  him.  Nothing  more  likely 
to  reconcile  rogues  who  rail  at  each  other,  than  railing  at  honest  men.  If 
your  dogs  are  of  the  true  breed,  they  will  leave  off  worrying  one  another, 
and  join  in  the  cry  against  the  common  enemy. 

It  is  on  the  subject  of  this  abuse  that  I  take  the  liberty  to  address  the 
mighty  Junius. 

This  phoenix  of  politicians  and  of  reasoners  tells  the  public,  that  "he 
never  had  a  doubt  about  the  strict  right  of  pressing,  till  he  knew  Lord 
Mansfield  was  of  the  same  opinion.  That  indeed  staggered  him  not  a  lit- 
tle;" and  to  be  sure  it  was  a  staggering  consideration:  for  who  is  to  learn 
that  Lord  Mansfield  is  utterly  ignorant  of  the  law?  andth;it  his  judgment 
is  avowedly  so  weak  and  perverse,  that  a  wise  politician  (I  mean  so  very 
wise  a  politician  as  Junius)  will  examine  no  further,  but  at  once  conclode, 
that  proposition  in  law  to  be  false,  which  Lord  Mansfield  holds  to  be  true. 

Sir,  when  you  are  only  puerile,  blundering,  inconsistent  and  absurd,  I 
treat  you  as  you  deserve,  with  ridicule  and  contempt.  But  when  you  assert 
positive  falsehoods,  the  mildest  usage  you  can  expect,  is  to  have  them 
crammed  down  the  foul  throat  from  which  they  issued.  Of  this  nature  are 
the  questions  you  make,  and  the  answers  you  are  pleased  to  give  to  your- 
self in  relation  to  Lord  Mansfield.  So  many  infamous  lies  as  these  answers 
contain,  were  never  crouded  together  before — not  even  by  Junius.  You 

insinuate 


102  LETTERS  OF 

misstating  his  propositions.  If  I  am  candid  enough  to  admit 
that  this  is  the  very  logic  taught  at  St,  Diner's,  you  will  readily 
allow  that  it  is  the  constant  practice  in  the  court  of  King's 
Bench. — Junius  does  not  say,  that  he  never  had  a  doubt 

insinuate  (and  you  dare  but  insinuate)  that  Lord  Mansfield  was  the  secret 
adviser  of  sending  out  the  guards  when  the  affair  of  St.  George's  Fields 
happened;  that  his  Lordship  was  in  any  shape  ostensibly  or  otherwise  con- 
cerned in  that  matter;  that  he  knew  of  it  till  days  after  it  happened,  is  a 
lie  of  the  first  magnitude;  and  I  dare  you  to  bring  even  the  shadow  of  proof 
of  your  infamous  assertion. 

It  is  also  a  lie  that  Lord  Mansfield  attacks  the  liberty  of  the  press.  He 
has  endeavoured,  indeed,  by  legal  and  constitutional  methods,  to  restrain 
the  abuse  of  that  liberty,  and  in  doing  so  he  has  shewn  himself  a  good 
citizen.  Are  you  a  politician,  and  ignorant  that  the  abuse  of  the  best  things 
makes  them  degenerate  into  the  worst?  Are  you  a  pretender  to  reason, 
and  ignorant  that  the  abuse  of  a  valuable  privilege  is  the  certain  mean  to 
lose  it?  Are  not  you  a  public  defamerof  every  respectable  character  in  the 
nation?  Have  not  you  carried  the  licence  of  the  press  beyond  the  bounds 
not  only  of  decency  and  humanity,  but  even  of  human  conception?  And 
dare  you  complain  that  its  liberty  is  attacked?  Your  reliance  on  the  igno- 
rance of  those  to  whom  you  write  must  be  great  indeed,  when  you  dare 
affirm  a  fact  which  is  contradicted  and  proved  a  lie  by  the  very  affirmation 
of  its  truth. 

Nor  is  it  lessfalse,  that  Lord  Mansfield  invades  the  constitutional  power 
of  juries.  I  refer  all  who  are  not  willing  to  believe  a  lie  upon  the  credit  of 
a  common  liar,  to  the  letters  of  Phileleutherus  Anglicanus,  and  those  un- 
der the  signature  of  A  Candid  Enquirer,  for  information  on  this  subject- 
The  letters  are  in  the  Public  Advertisers  of  November  and  December 
last;  and  from  them,  all  who  are  able  to  form  a  judgment  on  a  question  of 
law,  will  see  it  clearly  demonstrated,  that  Lord  Mansfield's  opinion  with 
respect  to  the  power  of  juries,  is  no  less  the  law  of  the  land,  than  the  ad~- 
vantage  of  the  subject. 

Your  question  relating  to  Lord  Mansfield's  challenging  a  juryman,  I 
confess  I  do  not  understand,  neither  do  I  know  to  what  it  alludes;  a  charge 
of  that  nature  ought  to  have  been  accompanied  with  circumstances  of  time, 
place,  and  occasion  When,  where,  and  on  what  account  was  this  done? 
Answer  me  these  questions,  and  I  pledge  myself  to  the  public,  that  I  shall 
prove,  to  the  conviction  of  every  reasonable  man,  that  if  it  was  so  done,  it 
was  legally  done. 

Your  next  accusation  shews  you  no  less  void  of  judgment  and  consisten- 
cy than  of  justice  and  truth.  You  accuse  Lord  Mansfield  to  the  public, 
for  saying  a  lord  is  entitled  to  no  greater  damages  in  a  suit  for  debauch- 
ing his  wife,  than  a  mechanic.  Lord  Mansfield  did  say,  that  in  an  action 
of  damages  for  criminal  conversation,  the  law  did  not  consider  the  rank  of 
'.he  person  injured;  and  in  this  he  uttered  not  only  the  dictates  of  law,  but 

the 


JUNIUS.  103 

about  the  strict  right  of  pressing,  till  he  knew  Lord  Mansfield 
was  of  the  same  opinion.  His  words  are,  until  he  heard  that 
Lord  Mansfield  had  applauded  Lord  Chatham  for  maintaining 
that  doctrine  in  the  House  of  Lords.  It  was  not  the  acciden- 
tal concurrence  of  Lord  Mansfield's  opinion,  but  the  suspi- 
cious applause  given  by  a  cunning  Scotchman  to  the  man  he 
detests,  that  raised  and  justified  a  doubt  in  the  mind  of 
Junius.  The  question  is  not,  whether  Lord  Mansfield  be 
a  man  of  learning  and  abilities  (which  Junius  has  never  dis- 
puted,) but  whether  or  no  he  abuses  and  misapplies  his 
talents. 

the  dictates  of  common  sense  and  humanity,  neither  of  which  you  seem  to 
understand.  Had  Lord  Mansfield  said  that  the  law  did  not  consider  the 
rank  of  the  injuring  person,  it  might  have  been  argued  that  he  meant  to 
screen  the  King's  brother:  but  the  difference  between  light  and  darkness 
is  not  greater  than  between  this  proposition  and  the  proposition  he  main- 
tained. None  but  an  Irish  understanding  could  possibly  take  the  change, 
or  suppose  them  convertible  propositions.  But  can  you,  Junius,  seriously 
make  your  court  to  the  people,  by  telling  them  there  is  a  wide  difference 
between  the  crime  of  debauching  the  wife  of  a  lord,  and  one  of  their  own] 
You  were  bred  at  St.  Omer's.  You  were  destined  for  a  church,  not  that 
indeed  of  which  Savile,  &c.  are  the  fathers;  but  however  a  church  which 
requires  some  reading.  Reading  the  scriptures,  it  is  true,  is  forbid  by 
your  canons;  but  surely  you  have  heard  of  the  prophet  Nathan's  address 
to  David  on  a  subject  of  this  nature?  The  prophet,  worse  than  Lord 
Mansfield,  thought  that  debauching  the  wife  of  a  poor  man  was  a  greater 
crime  than  debauching  the  wife  of  a  lord;  for  this  plain  and  humane  rea- 
son, that  a  poor  man's  wife  was  his  all,  his  only  comfort  and  consolation, 
whereas  a  rich  man  had  many  others;  yet  Junius,  the  popular  Junius, 
tells  the  people  plainly,  that  debauching  one  of  their  wives  is  nothing  in 
comparison  of  lying  with  a  lord's,  and  arraigns  the  upright  and  discerning 
judge,  who  says  that  the  injury  to  the  husband  is  in  both  cases  equal. 

Who  makes  commissioners  of  the  great  seal?  Lord  Mansfield. — In- 
deed;— I  thought  that  power  had  only  resided  in  the  King.  To  see  how 
plain  men  may  mistake!  If  you,  Junius,  by  making  commissioners  mean, 
advising  the  King  to  make  commissioners,  I  understand  you.  The  expres- 
sion is  rather  inaccurate,  but  that  one  is  often  obliged  to  pass  over  in 
Junius.  In  my  turn  give  me  leave  to  ask  you  a  question.  Who  so  proper 
to  advise  his  Majesty  in  the  choice  of  a  law  officer  as  Lord  Mansfield? 

But  Lord  Mansfield  not  only  made  the  commissioners  of  the  great  seal, 
he  also  framed  their  decree,  and  then  disavowed  the  decree  of  his  own 
framing  in  the  House  of  Peers.  This  is  an  absurd  and  an  improbable  lie. 
It  is  absurd  and  improbable  to  suppose  Lord  Mansfield  framed  a  decree 
for  three  judges  very  capable  to  frame  one  themselves.  It  is  more  absurd 

to 


1Q4,  LETTERS  OF 

Junius  did  not  say  that  Lord  Mansfield  had  advised  the 
calling  out  the  guards.  On  the  contrary,  his  plain  meaning 
is,  that  he  left  that  odious  office  to  men  less  cunning  than 
himself. — Whether  Lord  Mansfield's  doctrine  concerning 
libels  be  or  be  not  an  attack  upon  the  liberty  of  the  press,  is 

to  suppose  Lord  Mansfield  would  disavow  the  decree  which  he  himself 
had  made,  in  the  presence  of  the  three  commissioners  for  whom  he  had 
made  it,  and  who  could  so  easily  have  detected  his  duplicity.  And  it  is  a 
direct  and  public  lie  that  Lord  Mansfield  said  he  never  had  a  doubt  that 
the  law  was  in  direct  opposition  to  that  decree.  He  did  not  give  an  opinion 
in  the  House  of  Peers.  He  only  stated  the  question;  and  the  decree  was 
reversed  on  the  unanimous  opinion  of  the  eight  judges  who  attended. 
For  the  truth  of  this  I  appeal  to  all  who  were  present. 

The  last  charge  of  Junius  represents  Lord  Mansfield  making  it  his 
study  to  undermine  and  alter  the  whole  system  of  jurisprudence  in  the 
King's  Bench.  One  would  scarcely  believe  that  there  could  be  an  under- 
standing so  twisted,  or  a  heart  so  corruptly  malignant  as  to  make  that  an 
article  of  accusation,  which  fairly  taken  includes  in  it  the  most  exalted 
merit  and  virtue.  If  there  be  a  superlatively  eminent  quality  in  Lord 
Mansfield's  great  and  deserved  character,  it  is  the  unremitting  and  un- 
wearied efforts  he  constantly  has  made  to  rescue  injured  and  oppressed 
innocence  from  the  harpy  fangs  of  chicane  and  quibble.  The  nation  does 
him  justice  in  this  particular;  and  all  the  arts  and  lies,  that  have  been  em- 
ployed to  defame  him,  have  never  been  able  to  stagger  the  public  confi- 
dence in  his  judgment  and  integrity.  The  proof  of  this  is  in  the  breast  of 
every  man  to  whom  I  write;  and  the  crowd  of  suitors  in  the  court  where 
he  presides  gives  the  most  honourable  testimony  to  the  truth  which  I 
affirm,  and  the  most  palpable  lie  to  the  assertion  of  the  abandoned  Junius. 

And  now,  Sir,  having  answered  all  your  questions,  you  aVe  worth  no 
further  notice.  I  shall  in  my  turn  address  a  few  queries  to  the  public;  and 
I  am  sorry  that  the  temper  of  the  times  should  oblige  me  to  recall  to  their 
memory  things  which  ought  to  be  indelibly  engraven  on  the  heart  of  every 
Englishman. 

By  whose  advice  was  it  that  his  Majesty  immediately  on  his  accession 
to  the  throne  made  the  judges'  places  for  life,  thereby  rendering  them  in- 
dependent on  King  or  Minister?  Lord  Mansfield. — When  Lord  Chatham 
and  Lord  Camden  attempted  to  revive  the  impious  and  unconstitutional 
doctrine  of  a  power  in  the  crown  to  dispense  with  the  laws  of  the  land, 
(which  was  precisely  the  point  on  which  the  glorious  revolution  hinged, 
and  the  doctrine  for  maintaining  of  which  James  II.  lost  his  crown;)  who 
stood  in  the  breach,  and  with  eloquence  and  argument,  more  than  human, 
defeated  the  pernicious  attempt?  Lord  Mansfield. — Who  supported  and 
carried  through  the  House  of  Peers  the  bill  called  the  Nullum  Tempus 
Bill;  that  law  by  which  the  minds  of  the  people  were  quieted  against  ap- 
prehension of  claims  on  the  part  of  the  crown?   Lord  Mansfield. — To 

whom 


JUNIUS.  105 

a  question,  which  the  public  in  general  are  very  well  able  to 
determine.  I  shall  not  enter  into  it  at  present.  Nor  do  I 
think  it  necessary  to  say  much  to  a  man,  who  had  the  daring 
confidence  to  say  to  a  jury,  "  Gentlemen,  you  are  to  bring 
in  a  verdict  guilty  or  not  guilty,  but  whether  the  defendant 
be  guilty  or  innocent  is  not  matter  for  your  consideration." 
Clothe  it  in  what  language  you  will,  this  is  the  sum  total  of 
Lord  Mansfield  s  doctrine.  If  not,  let  Zeno  shew  us  the 
difference. 

But  it  seems,  the  liberty  of  the  press  may  be  abused,  and 
the  abuse  of  a  valuable  privilege  is  the  certain  means  to  lose  it* 
The  first  I  admit, — but  let  the  abuse  be  submitted  to  a  jury, 
a  sufficient  and  indeed  the  only  legal  and  constitutional  check 
upon  the  licence  of  the  press.  The  second,  I  flatly  deny.  In 
direct  contradiction  to  Lord  Mansfield  \  affirm  that  "  the 
abuse  of  a  valuable  privilege  is  not  the  certain  means  to  lose 
it."  If  it  were,  the  English  nation  would  have  few  privileges 
left,  for  where  is  the  privilege  that  has  not,  at  one  time  or 
other,  been  abused  by  individuals.  But  it  is  false  in  reason 
and  equity,  that  particular  abuses  should  produce  a  general 
forfeiture.  Shall  the  community  be  deprived  of  the  protec- 
tion of  the  laws  because  there  are  robbers  and  murderers?— 
Shall  the  community  be  punished,  because  individuals  have 

whom  do  we  owe  the  success  of  the  bill  for  restraining'  the  privilege  of 
parliament,  of  such  essential  service  to  the  internal  commerce  of  the  na- 
tion, and  especially  to  that  part  of  it  which  could  least  afford  to  lie  under 
any  disadvantage,  the  industrious  shopkeeper  and  tradesman?  Lord  Mans- 
field.— Who  carried  Mr.  Grenville's  last  legacy  to  the  nation  through  the. 
House  of  Peers,  that  bill  by  which  questions  of  elections  in  the  House  of 
Commons  are  henceforth  to  be  tried  in  a  manner  which  will  prevent  the 
injustice  supposed  to  have  been  done  in  the  Middlesex  election,  and  guard 
against  the  bad  consequences  which  it  was  feared  might  follow  from  that 
determination?  Lord  Mansfield. 

I  might  add  many  other  constitutional  questions  in  which  Lord  Mans- 
field has  ever  been  on  the.  side  of  public  liberty.  But  if  what  I  have  alrea- 
dy said  be  not  sufficient  to  vindicate  the  first  character  in  the  nation  from 
the  false  aspersions  of  an  unprincipled  scribbler,  I  am  bold  to  say,  that  the 
time  is  now  arrived  when  it  is  unworthy  of  an  honest  man  to  labour  for 
the  public;  and  the  character  of  an  Englishman,  once  so  respectable,  will 
no  longer  be  known  but  by  its  folly  and  ingratitude. 

Edit.  Zeno. 

Vol.  II.  O 


106  LETTERS  OF 

offended?  Lord  Mansfield  says  so,  consistently  enough  with 
his  principles,  but  I  wonder  to  find  him  so  explicit.  Yet,  for 
,  one  concession,  however  extorted,  I  confess  myself  obliged 
to  him. — The  liberty  of  the  press  is  after  all  a  valuable  pri- 
vilege. I  agree  with  him  most  heartily,  and  will  defend  it 
against  him. 

You  ask  me,  What  juryman  was  challenged  by  Lord 
Mansfield? — I  tell  you,  his  name  was  Benson.  When  his 
name  was  called,  Lord  Mansfield  ordered  the  clerk  to  pass 
him  by.  As  for  his  reasons,  you  may  ask  himself,  for  he  as- 
signed none*.  But  I  can  tell  you  what  all  men  thought  of  it. 
This  Benson\  had  been  refractory  upon  a  former  jury,  and 
would  not  accept  of  the  law  as  delivered  by  Lord  Mans- 
field, but  had  the  impudence  to  pretend  to  think  for  him- 
self.— But  you  it  seems,  honest  Zeno,  know  nothing  of  the 
matter!  'You  never  read  Junius's  letter  to  your  patron!  You 
never  heard  of  the  intended  instructions  from  the  city  to 
impeach  Lord  Mansfield! — You  never  heard  by  what  dex- 
terity of  Mr.  Patterson  that  measure  was  prevented^:!  How 
wonderfully  ill  some  people  are  informed! 

Junius  did  never  affirm  that  the  crime,  of  seducing  the 
wife  of  a  mechanic  or  a  peer,  is  not  the  same,  taken  in  a 
moral  or  religious  view.  What  he  affirmed  in  contradiction 
to  the  levelling  principle  so  lately  adopted  by  Lord  Mans- 
ion a  motion  made  in  the  House  of  Commons,  Nov.  27,  1770,  by  the 
Hon.  Mr.  Phipps,  for  leave  to  bring1  in  a  bill  to  amend  the  act  of  William 
the  third,  which  empowers  the  attorney  general  to  file  informations  ex 
officio,  the  late  Lord,  then  Mr.  Thurlow,  solicitor  general,  thus  defended 
Lord  Mansfield  from  the  charge  here  brought  against  him  by  Junius: — 
"  Indeed,  if  a  juryman  has  been  rejected  without  a  challenge  from  the  par- 
ties, there  is  room  for  clamour.  Such  an  act  is  highly  criminal.  No  man 
is  able,  no  honest  man  would  wish  to  defend  it.  But  let  us  not  be  rash  in 
passing  sentence.  Let  the  fact  be  well  authenticated,  before  we  condemn. 
Rumour  is  not  a  sufficient  ground  for  proceeding.  As  we  found  it  a  liar 
in  other  articles,  we  have  this  reason  to  doubt  its  veracity;  though  I  fre- 
quent Westminster-hall,  I  know  nothing  of  it;  but  I  must  confess  that  I 
cannot  give  it  the  least  credit.  The  great  judge  who  is  suspected,  was 
incapable  of  such  an  action."  Edit. 
f  See  Letter  i.xni.  post  p.  113.  Edit. 

\  Mr.  Patterson  was  one  of  the  common  council  for  the  ward  of  Far 
ringdon  Within,  and  took  an  active  part  in  favour  of  government.  Edit 


JUNIUS.  107 

field  was,  that  the  damages  should  be  proportioned  to  the  rank 
and  fortune  of  the  parties;  and  for  this  plain  reason;  (admit- 
ted by  every  other  judge  that  ever  sat  in  Westminster  Hall) 
because,  what  is  a  compensation  or  penalty  to  one  man  is 
none  to  another.  The  sophistical  distinction  you  attempt  to 
draw  between  the  person  injured,  and  the  person  injuring 
is  Mansfield  all  over.  If  you  can  once  establish  the  proposi- 
tion that  the  injured  party  is  not  intitled  to  receive  large 
damages,  it  follows  pretty  plainly  that  the  party  injuring 
should  not  be  compelled  to  pay  them;  consequently  the 
King's  brother  is  effectually  screened  by  Lord  Mansfield's 
doctrine.  Your  reference  to  Nathan  and  David  comes  natu- 
rally in  aid  of  your  patron's  professed  system  of  jurispru- 
dence. He  is  fond  of  introducing  into  the  court  of  King's 
Bench  any  law  that  contradicts  or  excludes  the  common  law 
of  England;  whether  it  be  canon,  civil,  jus  gentium,  or  Levi' 
tical.  But,  Sir,  the  Bible  is  the  code  of  our  religious  faith, 
not  of  our  municipal  jurisprudence:  and  though  it  was  the 
pleasure  of  God  to  inflict  a  particular  punishment  upon  Da- 
vid's crime  (taken  as  a  breach  of  his  divine  commands)  and 
to  send  his  prophet  to  denounce  it,  an  English  jury  have  no- 
thing to  do  either  with  David  or  the  prophet.  They  consider 
the  crime,  only  as  it  is  a  breach  of  order,  an  injury  to  an  in- 
dividual, and  an  offence  to  society,  and  they  judge  of  it  by 
certain  positive  rules  of  law,  or  by  the  practice  of  their  an- 
cestors. Upon  the  whole,  the  man  after  God's  own  heart  is 
much  indebted  to  you  for  comparing  him  to  the  Duke  of 
Cumberland.  That  his  Royal  Highness  may  be  the  man  af- 
ter Lord  Mansfield' s  own  heart  seems  much  more  probable, 
and  you  I  think,  Mr.  Zeno,  might  succeed  tolerably  well  in 
the  character  of  Nathan.  The  evil  deity,  the  prophet,  and  the 
royal  sinner  would  be  very  proper  company  for  one  another. 
You  say  Lord  Mansfield  did  not  make  the  commissioners 
of  the  Great  Seal*,  and  that  he  only  advised  the  King  to 

*  It  has  been  already  observed  that  the  great  seal  was  put  in  commis- 
sion upon  the  death  of  Charles  Yorke,  who  shot  himself  through  political 
chagrin.  Lord  Mansfield  was  upon  this  occasion  made  speaker  of  the 
House  of  Lords  with  a  salary  of  5000<\  per  annum.  Edit. 


108  LETTERS  OF 

■appoint.  I  believe  Junius  meant  no  more,  and  the  distinc- 
tion is  hardly  worth  disputing. — 

You  say  he  did  not  deliver  an  opinion  upon  Lord  Cha- 
tham's appeal. — I  affirm  that  he  did,  directly  in  favour  of 
the  appeal*.  This  is  a  point  of  fact,  to  be  determined  by 
evidence  only.  But  you  assign  no  reason  for  his  supposed 
silence,  nor  for  his  desiring  a  conference  with  the  judges 
the  day  before.  Was  not  all  Westminster-hall  convinced 
that  he  did  it  with  a  view  to  puzzle  them  with  some  per- 
plexing question,  and  in  hopes  of  bringing  some  of  them 
over  to  him? — You  say  the  commissioners  were  very  ca- 
pable of  framing  a  decree  for  themselves.  By  the  fact,  it  only 
appears,  that  they  were  capable  of  framing  an  illegal  one, 
which,  I  apprehend,  is  not  much  to  the  credit  either  of  their 
learning  or  integrity. 

We  are  both  agreed  that  Lord  Mansfield  has  incessantly 
laboured  to  introduce  new  modes  of  proceeding  in  the  court 
where  he  presides;  but  you  attribute  it  to  an  honest  zeal  in 
behalf  of  innocence  oppressed  by  quibble  and  chicane,  /say 
that  he  has  introduced  new  law  too,  and  removed  the  land- 
marks established  by  former  decisions.  /  say  that  his  view 
is  to  change  a  court  of  common  law  into  a  court  of  equity, 
and  to  bring  every  thing  withihthe  arbitrium  of  a  prcetorian 
court.  The  public  must  determine  between  us.  But  now  for 
his  merits.  First  then,  the  establishment  of  the  judges  in 
their  places  for  life,  (which  you  tell  us  was  advised  by  Lord 
Mansfield)  was  a  concession  merely  to  catch  the  people.  It 
bore  the  appearance  of  a  royal  bounty,  but  had  nothing  real 
in  it.  The  judges  were  already  for  life,  excepting  in  the  case 
of  a  demise.  Your  boasted  bill  only  provides  that  it  shall  not 
be  in  the  power  of  the  King's  successor  to  remove  them.  At 
the  best  therefore,  it  is  only  a  legacy,  not  a  gift  on  the  part 
of  his  present  Majesty,  since  for  himself,  he  gives  up  no- 

*  Sir  Wm.  Pynsent  had  bequeathed  an  estate  to  Lord  Chatham,  which 
bequest  was  controverted  by  his  immediate  heirs.  The  Chancellorship, 
then  in  commission,  was  appealed  to.  Lord  Chatham  lost  his  cause  by 
the  decision  of  the  commissioners:  but  gained  it  upon  a  further  appeal  to 
the  house  of  Lords.  Edit. 


JUNIUS.  109 

thing.— -That  he  did  oppose  Lord  Camden  and  Lord  North- 
tngton  upon  the  proclamation  against  the  exportation  of 
corn,  is  most  true,  and  with  great  ability.  With  his  talents, 
and  taking  the  right  side  of  so  clear  a  question,  it  was  im- 
possible to  speak  ill. — His  motives  are  not  so  easily  pene- 
trated. They,  who  are  acquainted  with  the  state  of  politics, 
at  that  period,  will  judge  of  them  somewhat  differently  from 
Zeno.  Of  the  popular  bills,  which  you  say  he  supported  in 
the  House  of  Lords,  the  most  material  is  unquestionably 
that  of  Mr.  Grenville,  for  deciding  contested  elections.  But 
I  should  be  glad  to  know  upon  what  possible  pretence  any 
member  of  the  upper  house  could  oppose  such  a  bill,  after  it 
had  passed  the  House  of  Commons? — I  do  not  pretend  to 
know  what  share  he  had  in  promoting  the  other  two  bills, 
but  I  am  ready  to  give  him  all  the  credit  you  desire.  Still 
you  will  find  that  a  whole  life  of  deliberate  iniquity  is  ill 
atoned  for  by  doing  now  and  then  a  laudable  action  upon  a 
mixed  or  doubtful  principle — If  it  be  unworthy  of  him, 
thus  ungratefully  treated,  to  labour  any  longer  for  the  pub- 
lic, in  God's  name  let  him  retire.  His  brother's  patron, 
(whose  health  he  once  was  anxious  for)  is  dead,  but  the  son 
of  that  unfortunate  prince  survives,  and,  I  dare  say,  will  be 
ready  to  receive  him. 

PHILO  JUNIUS. 


LETTER  LXII. 

TO  AN  ADVOCATE  IN  THE  CAUSE  OF  THE  PEOPLE*. 
Sir,  18  October,  1771. 

You  do  not  treat  Junius  fairly.  You  would  not  have  con- 
demned him  so  hastily,  if  you  had  ever  read  Judge  Foster'* 

*  The  letter  thus  subscribed  appeared  in  the  Public  Advertiser,  Oct- 
16,  1771,  and  deserves  a  perusal,  as  it  was  deemed  entitled  to  a  reply. 

TO  JUNIUS. 
Sir, 
There  is  a  bigotry  in  politics  as  well  as  in  religion.  Precepts,  which, 
on  examination,  we  should  have  found  to  be  erroneous,  are  often  impli 

citiv 


HO  LETTERS  OF 

argument  upon  the  legality  of  pressing  seamen.  A  man  who 
has  not  read  that  argument,  is  not  qualified  to  speak  accu- 
rately upon  the  subject.  In  answer  to  strong  facts  and  fair 
reasoning,  you  produce  nothing  but  a  vague  comparison  be- 

citly  received  by  us,  because  we  have  formed  an  opinion  of  the  integrity 
and  sound  judgment  of  those  by  whom  they  were  penned;  but  the  majo- 
rity of  the  people  are  biassed  by  those  principles  entirely  which  they  have 
imbibed  in  their  youth,  and  pay  deference  to  those  persons  and  things 
which  their  parents  instructed  them  to  revere.  The  greater,  therefore, 
the  reputation  of  a  writer,  the  stricter  guard  I  must  keep  over  my  be- 
lief, for  the  easier  he  might  lead  my  judgment  astray.  I  even  think  it  my 
duty,  when  such  a  writer  errs,  to  sound  the  alarm;  lest  my  fellow  citizens 
be  unwarily  misled. — Junius  is  their  favourite  guide;  but  shall  they  fol- 
low him  blindfold,  because  he  affirms  it  to  be  dark?  No,  let  them  walk 
with  their  eyes  open,  and  see  if  there  be  not  a  ray  of  light. — Credulity  and 
superstitious  veneration  have  ever  held  in  darkness  the  human  mind.  It 
was  not  till  the  pope  and  his  priests  had  forfeited  their  character  of  holi- 
ness and  infallibility  that  the  reformation  took  place,  and  mankind  began 
to  think  for  themselves;  the  scriptures  began  to  be  understood  in  their 
original  meaning,  though  many  to  this  day  interpret  them,  not  as  they 
have  considered  them  in  their  own  minds,  but  as,  by  their  priests  or  their 
parents,  they  are  taught  to  believe.  It  was  not  till  the  prerogative  of  the 
crown  was  abused  by  the  house  of  Stuart  that  the  Revolution  succeeded 
in  the  government  of  Britain.  Men  then  lost  that  fear  and  reverence  with 
which  they  used  to  behold  their  king;  and  they  began  to  imagine  it  would 
be  better  for  the  common-weal,  that  his  power  and  prerogative  were  cur- 
tailed. The  authority  of  the  monarchical  law-writers  became  also  disre- 
garded; and  customs,  which,  before  that  period,  were  peaceably  received 
as  the  laws  of  the  land,  were  then  found  to  be  illegal  and  inconsistent 
with  the  rights  of  a  free  man. — Our  minds  are  becoming  still  daily  more 
enlightened;  general  warrants  have  lately  been  abolished  as  illegal;  and 
you,  Junius,  have  publicly  arraigned  the  conduct  of  our  chief  magistrate, 
with  a  freedom  hitherto  unknown.  A  few  years  ago  a  jury  of  your  own 
countrymen  would  have  perused  your  sentiments  of  their  king,  with  al- 
most the  same  horror  and  detestation,  as  they  would  have  read  blasphemy 
against  their  God.  You  have  indeed,  Sir,  been  the  greatest  reformer  of 
our  political  creed,  and  I  revere  you  for  your  enlarged  mind.  But,  though 
In  general  I  assent  to  the  articles  of  your  faith,  I  cannot  entirely  agree 
with  you  in  the  opinions  delivered  to  us,  in  your  letter  of  the  8th  of  this 
month.  What  you  have  there  written  on  the  subject  of  press-warrants, 
does  not  become  your  pen.  I  wish,  Sir,  for  your  own  honour,  you  would 
give  that  matter  a  second  consideration.  You  say,  "  I  see  the  right  (of 
pressing  men  into  the  sea  service)  founded  originally  upon  necessity, 
which  supersedes  all  argument.  I  see  it  established  by  usage  immemo- 
rial and  admitted  by  more  than  a  tacit  assent  of  the  legislature.  I  conclude 

there 


JUNIUS.  HI 

tween  two  things,  which  have  little  or  no  resemblance  to 
each  other.  General  Warrants,  it  is  true,  had  been  often  is- 
sued, but  they  had  never  been  regularly  questioned  or  re- 
sisted, until  the  case  of  Mr.  Wilkes.  He  brought  them  to 
trial,  and  the  moment  they  were  tried,  they  were  declared 
illegal.  This  is  not  the  case  of  Press  Warrants.  They  have 
been  complained  of,  questioned,  and  resisted  in  a  thousand 
instances;  but  still  the  legislature  have  never  interposed,  nor 
has  there  ever  been  a  formal  decision  against  them  in  any 

there  is  no  remedy,  in  the  nature  of  things,  for  the  grievance  complained 

of;  for,  if  there  were,  it  must  long  since  have  been  redressed." Now 

really,  Sir,  this  conclusion  is  more  like  the  argument  of  a  bigotted  priest 
of  the  church  of  Rome,  than  the  sound  reasoning  of  a  protestant  divine. 
You  might  as  well  have  told  us  to  reverence  the  pope,  to  believe  in  tran- 
substantiation,  and  to  kneel  to  all  the  images  of  the  popish  saints;  because 
if  it  were  not  proper  so  to  do,  our  ancestors  would  not  have  done  so  before 
us.  Would  you  not  have  been  laughed  at  if,  in  the  debate  on  the  legality 
of  general  warrants,  you  hud  declared  there  was  no  remedy  against  them, 
because,  if  there  were,  they  must  long  since  have  been  declared  illegal? 
were  not  general  warrants  as  much  established,  by  usage  immemorial,  as 
is  the  arbitrary  custom  of  pressing  men?  and  were  they  not  as  anciently 
admitted  by  the  tacit  assent  of  the  legislature?  Surely,  Sir,  if  you  had 
been  seriously  inclined  to  investigate  the  truth,  you  would  have  delivered 
yourself  in  a  more  rational  stile. 

A  man  of  your  fertile  imagination  could  easily  have  thought  of  a  remedy 
against  the  grievance  complained  of,  in  the  custom  of  pressing  men.  You 
could  have  shewn  us,  that  a  body  of  seamen,  kept  in  constant  pay,  was 
much  more  necessary  for  the  defence  of  this  country  than  a  standing  army. 
You  could,  during  the  peace,  have  found  employment  for  those  seamen  in 
the  dock  yards,  in  the  herring  fishery,  in  the  custom-house  cutters,  and 
in  fully  manning  those  inactive  men  of  war  now  most  improperly  called 
guard  ships,  though  originally  intended  to  guard  our  isle.  In  short,  Sir,  if 
those  seamen  were  to  do  nothing  during  the  peace,  they  would  still  be 
more  requisite  than  an  army  in  peace  only  employed  to  add  force  to  the 
prerogative  of  the  crown.  But  Junius  was  not  in  earnest.  He  is  perhaps 
one  of  our  discarded  ministers  (or  rather  one  of  their  secretaries,  for 
ministers  rarely  write  so  well.)  He  expects  to  be  employed  again;  and  as 
he  may  then  have  occasion  for  men,  suddenly  to  put  a  fleet  to  sea,  he 
must  not  deliver  his  opinion  against  press- warrants-  if  it  were  received, 
he  might  hereafter  find  a  difficulty  to  equip  his  fleet;  the  remedy,  though 
found  by  him,  being  not  yet  applied  to  the  grievance  of  which  the  nation 
would  complain. 

AN  ADVOCATE  IN  THE  CAUSE  OF  THE  PEOPLE 


112  LETTERS  OF 

of  the  superior  courts.  On  the  contrary,  they  have  been  fre- 
quently recognized  and  admitted  by  parliament,  and  there 
are  judicial  opinions  given  in  their  favour,  by  judges  of  the 
first  character.  Under  the  various  circumstances,  stated  by 
Junius,  he  has  a  right  to  conclude,  for  himself,  that  there  is 
no  remedy.  If  you  have  a  good  one  to  propose,  you  may 
depend  upon  the  assistance  and  applause  of  Junius.  The 
magistrate,  who  guards  the  liberty  of  the  individual,  deserves 
to  be  commended.  But  let  him  remember  that  it  is  also  his 
duty  to  provide  for,  or  at  least  not  to  hazard  the  safety  of 
the  community.  If,  in  the  case  of  a  foreign  war  and  the  ex- 
pectation of  an  invasion,  you  would  rather  keep  your  fleet 
in  harbour,  than  man  it  by  pressing  seamen,  who  refuse  the 
bounty,  I  have  done. 

You  talk  of  disbanding  the  army  with  wonderful  ease 
and  indifference.  If  a  wiser  man  held  such  language,  I  should 
be  apt  to  suspect  his  sincerity. 

As  for  keeping  up  a  much  greater  number  of  seamen  in 
time  of  peace,  it  is  not  to  be  done.  You  will  oppress  the 
merchant,  you  will  distress  trade,  and  destroy  the  nursery 
of  your  seamen.  He  must  be  a  miserable  statesman,  who 
voluntarily,  by  the  same  act,  increases  the  public  expense, 
and  lessens  the  means  of  supporting  it. 

PHILO  JUNIUS. 


LETTER  LXIII. 

22  October,  1771. 
A  triend  of  Junius  desires  it  may  be  observed,  (in  an- 
swer to  A  Barrister  at  Law*), 

*  The  letter  here  referred  to  appeared  in  the  Public  Advertiser  of  Oct. 
19,  1771,  and  is  as  follows: 

Lord  Mansfield  defended  against  Junius  and  his  party. 

Junius  derives  importance  from  every  reply.   His  pride  is  flattered  by 

the  number  of  his  opponents;  and  even  detection  itself  is  a  triumph  to  a 

man  who  lus  no  honour,  no  fame  to  lose.  In  the  absence  of  all  character, 

he  enjoys  the  security  which  others  owe  to  a  reputation  invulnerable  on 

every 


JUNIUS.  U3 

1°.  That  the  fact  of  Lord  Mansfield's  having  ordered  a 
juryman  to  be  passed  by  (which  poor  Zeno  never  htard  of) 
is  now  formally  admitted.  When  Mr.  BenaorCs  name  was 
called,  Lord  Mansfield  was  observed  to  flush  in  the  face,  (a 

every  side:  and  lie  is  singularly  independent  of  rebuke,  under  the  unparal- 
leled depravity  of  his  mind. —  But  there  are  charges  which  require  an 
answer,  notwithstanding  the  discredit,  which  is  annexed  to  them,  on  ac- 
count of  the  quarter  from  which  they  come  Junius  is  not  more  wicked, 
than  some  of  bis  readers  are  credulous:  and  this  consideration  was  the  sole 
inducement  to  the  following  dispassionate  answer  to  his  late  Attack  upon 
a  great  law  Lord,  who  is  an  ornament  to  the  present  age. 

The  charge  that  his  Lordship  challenged  a  juror,  is  at  once  impossible  and 
absurd.  It  answers  itself,  and  bears  the  lie  on  its  face. — But  Junius  may- 
found  his  accusation  upon  a  misrepresented  fact:  A  juryman,  about  fifteen 
years  ago,  for  a  suspicion  conceived  upon  something  which  happened  in 
Court,  was  passed  by  with  th;-  acquiescenc  and  consent  of  the  counsel  on 
both  sides.  Neither  of  the  parties  complained.  A  factious  attorney,  to 
gain  consequence  to  himself,  began  to  mutter.  He  met  with  no  encourage- 
ment, and  he  dropt  the  affair.  Junius  ought  to  know,  that  jurors  are 
passed  by,  with  the  acquiescence  of  both  parties,  without  a  formal  chal- 
lenge. Without  the  consent  of  both,  it  cannot  be  done.  Such  a  measure 
•would  be  a  mis-trial;  and,  upon  motion,  would  be  set  aside  of  course  by 
the  court.  But  when  the  parties  are  satisfied,  nobody  else  has  any  right  to 
complain. 

His  Lordship  has  destroyed  the  liberty  of  the  press:  Junius,  in  his  charge, 
gives  himself  the  lie.  No  writer  ever  used  the  liberty  of  the  press  with 
such  unrestrained  freedom  as  himself:  no  times  were  ever  so  much  marked 
as  the  present,  with  public  scurrility  and  defamation.  A  reply  to  the 
charge  is  in  every  column  of  every  paper.  They  are  the  most  dangerous 
enemies,  who  abuse  the  liberty  of  the  press  like  Junius  and  his  adhere  .ts. 

His  Lordship,  not  content  with  destroying  the  liberty  of  the  press,  has, 
if  we  believe  Junius,  restrained  the  poiuer  of  juries  — -Juries,  it  has  never 
yet  been  doubted,  have  a  power  of  doing  either  right  or  wrong,  according 
to  their  will  and  pleasure.  The  only  question  is,  by  what  rules  should  they 
govern  themselves,  if  they  mean  to  do  right.  Till  the  year  1730,  there 
was  some  doubt,  whether  the  construction  of  a  libel  was  not  a  question  of 
law:  but  in  Franklin's  trial,  the  rule,  which  has  been  invariably  ever  since 
followed,  was  admitted  by  Lord  Hardwick,  then  Attorney  General,  agned 
to  bv  eminent  counsel  on  the  other  side,  and  adopted  by  the  court.  Lord 
Mansfield  made  a  late  opinion  of  the  court  very  public,  undoubtedly  with 
a  view,  that  it  should  be  taken  up  constitutionally  in  parliament,  by  those 
who  pretended  to  differ  from  him  in  opinion,  by  a  bill,  in  the  progress  of 
which  the  matter  might  be  discussed,  with  the  assistance  of  the  judges. 
It  was  in  this  light  understood;  and  the  most  consider  ble  part  of  those 
who  differed  from  that  opinion  in  the  House  of  Commons  being  clear,  tnat 

there 

Vol.  II.  P 


114  LETTERS  OF 

signal  of  guilt  not  uncommon  with  him)  and  cried  out,  pass 
him  by.  This  I  take  to  be  something  more  than  a  peremp- 
tory challenge.  It  is  an  unlawful  command,  without  any  rea- 
son assigned.  That  the  counsel  did  not  resist,  is  true;  but 

there  was  no  colour  for  a  declaratory  law,  moved  for  a  bill  to  make  a  law 
for  the  future,  which  was  rejected.  The  enormous  crime  trumped  up  by 
Junii  s  and  his  party  then  is,  that  a  judge  tells  the  jury  what,  in  his  opi- 
nion, the  law  is,  and  leaves  them  afterwards  to  do  as  they  please,  without 
interposition.  If  he  thinks  his  opinion  right,  as  he  most  certainly  does,  it 
is  not  in  his  power  to  do  otherwise;  and  he  must  repeat  the  same  conduct, 
whenever  a  similar  case  comes  before  him. 

Junius  next  affirms,  that  "to  save  the  King's  brother,  Lord  Mans- 
field declared  that,  in  a  verdict  for  criminal  conversation,  a  man  of  the 
first  quality  is  intitled  to  no  greater  damages  than  the  meanest  mechanic." 
— 1  have  talked  with  some  who  attended  the  trial,  I  have  read  the  spuri- 
ous accounts  of  it  in  print.  We  know  how  falsely  and  ignoranthy  such  notes 
are  taken,  even  when  the  writers  mean  no  harm.  They  are  generally  un- 
intelligible till  they  are  corrected  by  the  persons  concerned.  But  I  suspect, 
that  malice  joined  issue  with  blunder,  in  what  is  made  Lord  Mansfield's 
opinion.  It  is  full  of  nonsense,  contradictory  and  manifestly  imperfect. 
Much  depends  upon  a  word  or  two,  a  restriction  or  a  qualification.  The 
published  opinion  makes  Lord  Mansfield  tell  the  jury  that  the  measure 
of  damages  must  be  formed,  from  all  the  circumstances  of  the  case  taken 
together.  In  another  place,  it  makes  him  state  many  of  the  circumstances 
and  say,  they  are  not  at  all  material  without  any  restriction  or  qualifica- 
tion. But  the  scope  and  occasion  of  the  direction  are  very  plain,  in  what- 
ever words  the  direction  itself  was  expressed. 

A  very  eminent  and  able  counsel  had,  with  a  torrent  of  eloquence,  ap- 
plied to  the  passions  of  the  jury.  He  laboured,  with  great  art  and  address, 
to  carry  them,  it  is  impossible  to  say  where,  merely  on  account  of  the  rank 
and  situation  of  the  parties.  The  Duke  of  York,  he  informed  the  jury,  re- 
covered one  hundred  thousand  pounds  against  a  man  for  calling  him  a  pa- 
pist, which  was  no  additional  damage  to  his  character,  for  all  England 
knew  him  to  be  actually  a  papist.  If  therefore,  continued  the  counsel,  the 
King's  brother  recovered  so  much,  the  rule  should  be  reciprocal,  and  the 
defendant  ought  to  pay  much  more,  as  the  injury  was  greater.  The  learned 
counsel  judiciously  passed  over  the  many  cases  in  England — of  a  Duke  of 
Norfolk,  a  Duke  of  Beaufort,  a  Duke  of  Grafton,  and  many  other  peers, 
who  had  recovered  moderate  damages  from  men  of  fortune.  But  he  rested 
on  an  Irish  case,  of  which  he  stated  no  circumstances,  where  the  rule 
was  to  give  such  damages  as  should  ruin  the  defendant.  He,  therefore, 
contended  for  an  exorbitant  verdict,  by  way  of  punishment. 

It  was  the  indispensable  duty  of  the  judge  to  extricate  the  matter  from 
the  passions  of  the  jury,  worked  up  and  biassed  by  inflammatory  elo- 
quence, that  powerful  instrument  of  deceit,  and  to  bring  it  back  to  their 

coo; 


JUNIUS.  H5 

this  might  happen  either  from  inadvertence,  or  a  criminal 
complaisance  to  Lord  Mansfield. — You  Barristers  are  too 
apt  to  be  civil  to  my  Lord  Chief  Justice,  at  the  expense  of 
your  clients. 

cool  and  sound  judgments.  They  were,  therefore,  told  that  damages  are 
by  way  of  retribution  or  compensation  to  the  plaintiff  for  the  injury,  and  to 
be  estimated  from  all  the  circumstances.  The  rank  and  situation  of  the 
parties  were  not  of  themselves  decisive.  A  peer,  under  some  circum. 
stances,  may  be  intitled  to  less  damages  for  this  injury  than  a  tradesman 
under  other  circumstances:  That  it  might  be  just,  in  certain  situations,  to 
give  small  damages  for  this  injury  against  a  defendant  of  great  wealth, 
and  in  other  situations  to  give  ten  thousand  pounds  against  a  person  of  low 
degree.  Even  from  the  spurious  opinion  published,  the  case  appears  to 
have  been  left  to  the  jury,  upon  all  the  circumstances,  without  a  single 
remark  on  any  of  them,  without  a  word  of  alleviation.  No  cases  were  men- 
tioned where  moderate  damages  had  been  given  to  peers  of  the  highest 
rank  for  this  injury  against  persons  of  great  fortune. 

The  next  charge  of  Junius  and  his  party  against  the  noble  Lord  is, 
'•'that  he  has  changed  the  system  of  jurisprudence." — The  uncandid  party 
do  not  recollect  that  Lord  Mansfield  has  had  three  assistants  most  eminent 
for  knowledge  and  integrity.  The  only  change  we  of  Westminster-hall 
either  know  or  have  heard  of  is,  that  the  decisions  inform  and  satisfy  the 
bar:  that  hitherto  no  one  has  been  reversed,  and,  which  is  amain  point  to 
the  suitor,  and  perhaps  new,  there  is  no  delay. —  Since  Lord  Mansfield  sat 
there,  the  business,  which  flows  into  that  channel,  and  leaves  every  other 
almost  dry,  is  increased  beyond  belief  I  have  been  assured,  that  besides 
all  the  other  business,  there  are  not  fewer  than  seven  or  eight  hundred  causes 
entered  every  year  at  the  sittings  before  his  Lordship  for  London  and 
Middlesex.  It  is  at  once  unjust  and  uncandid  to  take  from  him  all  merit, 
while  he  goes  through  the  immense  fatigue  which  arises  from  a  high  re- 
putation. 

As  to  Lord  Chatham's  cause,  the  malevolent  writer  has  sat  down  to  in« 
vent  a  lie,  without  giving  himself  the  trouble  to  inquire  into  what  passed 
in  public  upon  that  subject.  I,  as  many  more  of  the  profession,  attended 
that  cause.  Lord  Mansfield  moved  the  question,  which  was  put  to  the 
judges,  penned  with  a  view  to  that  point,  upon  which,  it  appeared  after- 
wards, he  thought  the  cause  depended.  Though  it  had  been  argued,  both 
above  and  below,  upon  another  point,  the  judges  considered  the  point  on 
which  it  had  been  argued.  They  were  divided  and  prepared  to  give  dif- 
ferent opinions.  Lord  Mansfield,  apprized  of  the  disagreement  among  the 
judges,  suggested  that  point  upon  which  he  thought  the  cause  turned,  be 
the  other  as  it  might.  He  proposed  to  the  judges  to  consider  it  in  that 
light.  The  house  was  adjourned  expressly  for  this  purpose;  and  when  the 
judges  came  to  consider  the  cause  on  the  point  suggested  by  Lord  Mans- 
field, they  were  unanimous;  which  terminated  the  cause,  whatever  the  law 
might  be  upon  the  other  point  on  whieh  it  was  decided  below.  The  allega- 

ti 


116  LETTERS  OF 

2°.  Junius  did  never  say  that  Lord  Mansfield  had  de- 
stroyed iht  liberty  of  the  press.  "  That  his  Lordship  has 
laboured  to  destroy \ — that  his  doctrine  is  an  attack  upon  the 
liberty  of  the  press, — that  it  is  an  invasion  of  the  right  of 
juries,"  are  the  propositions  maintained  bv  Junius.  His  op- 
ponents never  answer  him  in  point,  for  they  never  meet  him 
fairly  upon  his  own  ground. 

3°.  Lord  Mansfield'* s  policy,  in  endeavouring  to  screen  his 
unconstitutional  doctrines  behind  an  act  of  the  legislature,  is 
easily  understood. — Let  every  Englishman  stand  upon  his 
guard; — the  right  of  juries  to  return  a  general  verdict,  in  all 
cases  whatsoever,  is  a  part  of  our  constitution.  It  stands  in 
no  need  of  a  bill,  either  enacting  or  declaratory,  to  confirm 
it*. 

4°.  With  regard  to  the  Grosvenor  cause,  it  is  pleasant  to 
observe  that  the  doctrine  attributed  by  Junius  to  Lord 
Mansfield,  is  admitted  by  Zeno,  and  directly  defended.  The 
Barrister  has  not  the  assurance  to  deny  it  flatly,  but  he 
evades  the  charge  and  softens  the  doctrine  by  such  poor, 
contemptible  quibbles,  as  cannot  impose  upon  the  meanest 
understanding. 

5°.  The  quantity  of  business  in  the  Court  of  King's  Bench 
proves  nothing  but  the  litigious  spirit  of  the  people,  arising 
from  the  great  increase  of  wealth  and  commerce.  These 
however  are  now  upon  the  decline,  and  will  soon  leave  no- 
thing out  law  suits  behind  them.  When  Junius  affirms  that 
Lord  Mansfield  has  laboured  to  alter  the  system  of  jurispru- 
dence, in  the  court  where  his  Lordship  presides,  he  speaks 

tion,  that  Lord  Mansfield  made  the  decree  for  the  commissioners,  bears 
on  its  face  the  marks  of  a  palpable  falsehood.  It  is  a  mei-e  invention  of 
Junius;  never  mentioned,  never  suspected  by  any  other  writer.  I  am  con- 
vinced, both  from  the  delicacy  of  the  commissioners  and  that  of  his  Lord- 
ship, that  not  a  single  word  ever  passed  between  them  on  the  subject. 

A  BARRISTER   AT   LAW. 

Temple,  Oct.  16.  Edit. 

*  This  subject  was  agitated  in  the  House  of  Commons,  in  the  spring  of 
the  year  1771,  on  the  motion  of  Mr.  Dowdeswell  for  leave  to  bring  in  an 
enacting  bill;  which  was  rejected,  for  the  reasons  assigned  in  the  note  to 
p.  257,  vol.1.  Edit. 


JUNIUS.  117 

to  those,  who  are  able  to  look  a  little  farther  than  the  vulgar. 
Besides  that  the  multitude  are  easily  deceived  by  the  im- 
posing names  of  equity  and  substantial  justice,  it  does  not 
follow  that  a  judge,  who  introduces  into  his  court  new  modes 
of  proceeding,  and  new  principles  of  law,  intends,  in  every 
instance,  to  decide  unjustly.  Why  should  he,  where  he  has 
no  interest? — We  say  that  Lord  Mansfield  is  a  bad  man,  and 
a  worse  judge; — but  we  do  not  say  that  he  is  a  mere  devil. 
Our  adversaries  would  fain  reduce  us  to  the  difficulty  of 
proving  too  much. — This  artifice  however  shall  not  avail 
him.  The  truth  of  the  matter  is  plainly  this.  When  Lord 
Mansjield  has  succeeded  in  his  scheme  of  changing  a  court 
of  common  lazv  to  a  court  of  equity,  he  will  have  it  in  his 
power  to  do  injustice  -whenever  he  thinks  proper.  This, 
though  a  wicked  purpose,  is  neither  absurd  nor  unattainable. 
6°.  The  last  paragraph,  relative  to  Lord  Chatham's  cause 
cannot  be  answered.  It  partly  refers  to  facts,  of  too  secret  a 
nature  to  be  ascertained,  and  partly  is  unintelligible.  "  Upon 
one  point,*  the  cause  is  decided  against  Lord  Chatham.— 
Upon  another  point,  it  is  decided  for  him." — Both  the  law 
and  the  language  are  well  suited  to  a  Barrister! — If  I  have 
any  guess  at  this  honest  gentleman's  meaning,  it  is,  that, 
u  whereas  the  commissioners  of  the  Great  Seal  saw  the  ques- 
tion in  a  point  of  view  unfavourable  to  Lord  Chatham,  and 
decreed  accordingly, — Lord  Mansfield,  out  of  sheer  love  and 
kindness  to  Lord  Chatham,  took  the  pains  to  place  it  in  a 
point  of  view  more  favourable  to  the  appellant.'''' — Credat 
Judceus  Apella. — So  curious  an  assertion  would  stagger  the 
faith  of  Mr.  Sylva. 


LETTER  LXIV. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC    ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  2  November,  1771. 

We  are  desired  to  make  the  following  declaration,  in  be- 
half of  Junius,  upon  three  material  points,  on  which  his 
opinion  has  been  mistaken,  or  misrepresented. 

1°.  Junius  considers  the  right  of  taxing  the  colonies,  by 


118  LETTERS  OF 

an  act  of  the  British  legislature,  as  a  speculative  right  merely, 
never  to  be  exerted,  nor  ever  to  be  renounced.  To  his  judg- 
ment it  appears  plain,  "  That  the  general  reasonings,  which 
were  employed  against  that  power,  went  directly  to  our 
whole  legislative  right,  and  that  one  part  of  it  could  not  be 
yielded  to  such  arguments,  without  a  virtual  surrender  of  all 
the  rest." 

2°.  That,  with  regard  to  press-warrants,  his  argument 
should  be  taken  in  his  own  words,  and  answered  strictly; — 
that  comparisons  may  sometimes  illustrate,  but  prove  no- 
thing; and  that,  in  this  case,  an  appeal  to  the  passions  is  un- 
fair and  unnecessary.  Junius  feels  and  acknowledges  the 
evil  in  the  most  express  terms,  and  will  shew  himself  ready 
to  concur  in  any  rational  plan,  that  may  provide  for  the  liber- 
ty of  the  individual,  without  hazarding  the  safety  of  the 
community.  At  the  same  time,  he  expects  that  the  evil,  such 
as  it  is,  be  not  exaggerated  or  misrepresented.  In  general,  it 
is  not  unjust  that,  when  the  rich  man  contributes  his  wealth, 
the  poor  man  should  serve  the  state  in  person; — otherwise 
the  latter  contributes  nothing  to  the  defence  of  that  law  and 
constitution,  from  which  he  demands  safety  and  protection. 
But  the  question  does  not  lie  between  rich  and  poor.  The 
laws  of  England  make  no  such  distinctions.  Neither  is  it 
true  that  the  poor  man  is  torn  from  the  care  and  support  of 
a  wife  and  family,  helpless  without  him.  The  single  question 
is,  whether  the  seaman*,  in  times  of  public  danger,  shall 
serve  the  merchant  or  the  state,  in  that  profession  to  which 
he  was  bred,  and  by  the  exercise  of  which  alone  he  can  ho- 
nestly support  himself  and  his  family. — General  arguments 
against  the  doctrine  of  necessity,  and  the  dangerous  use  that 
may  be  made  of  it,  are  of  no  weight  in  this  particular  case. 
Necessity  includes  the  idea  of  inevitable.  Whenever  it  is  so, 
it  creates  a  law,  to  which  all  positive  laws,  and  all  positive 
rights  must  give  way.  In  this  sense  the  levy  of  ship-money 
by  the  King's  warrant  was  not  necessary,  because  the  busi- 
ness might  have  been  as  well  or  better  done  by  parliament. 

*  I  confine  myself  strictly  to  seamen,- — if  any  others  are  pressed,  it  is 
gross  abuse,  which  the  magistrates  can  and  should  correct. 


JUNIUS.  119 

If  the  doctrine,  maintained  by  Junius,  be  confined  within 
this  limitation,  it  will  go  but  very  little  way  in  support  of  ar- 
bitrary power.  That  the  King  is  to  judge  of  the  occasion,  is 
no  objection,  unless  we  are  told  how  it  can  possibly  be  other- 
wise. There  are  other  instances,  not  less  important  in  the 
exercise,  nor  less  dangerous  in  the  abuse,  in  which  the  con- 
stitution relies  entirely  upon  the  King's  judgment.  The  exe- 
cutive power  proclaims  war  and  peace,  binds  the  nation  by 
treaties,  orders  general  embargoes,  and  imposes  quarantines, 
not  to  mention  a  multitude  of  prerogative  writs,  which, 
though  liable  to  the  greatest  abuses,  were  never  disputed. 

3°.  It  has  been  urged,  as  a  reproach  to  Junius,  that  he  has 
not  delivered  an  opinion  upon  the  Game  Laws,  and  particu- 
larly the  late  Dog-act.  But  Junius  thinks  he  has  much  greater 
reason  to  complain,  that  he  is  never  assisted  by  those,  who 
are  able  to  assist  him,  and  that  almost  the  whole  labour  of 
the  press  is  thrown  upon  a  single  hand,  from  which  a  discus- 
sion of  every  public  question  whatsoever  is  unreasonably  ex- 
pected. He  is  not  paid  for  his  labour,  and  certainly  has  a 

right  to  choose  his  emplovment. As  to  the  Game  Laws, 

he  never  scrupled  to  declare  his  opinion,  that  they  are  a  spe- 
cies of  the  Forest  Laws,  that  they  are  oppressive  to  the  sub- 
ject, and  that  the  spirit  of  them  is  incompatible  with  legal 
libertv: — that  the  penalties,  imposed  by  these  laws,  bear  no 
proportion  to  the  nature  of  the  offence,  that  the  mode  of  trial 
and  the  degree  and  kind  of  evidence  necessary  to  convict, 
not  only  deprive  the  subject  of  all  the  benefits  of  a  trial  by 
jury,  but  are  in  themselves  too  summary,  and  to  the  last  de- 
gree arbitrary  and  oppressive.  That,  in  particular,  the  late 
acts  to  prevent  dog-stealing,  or  killing  game  between  sun 
and  sun,  are  distinguished  by  their  absurdity,  extravagance, 
and  pernicious  tendency.  If  these  terms  are  weak,  or  ambi- 
guous, in  what  language  can  Junius  express  himself? — It  is 
no  excuse  for  Lord  Mansfield  to  say  that  he  happened  to  be 
absent  when  these  bills  passed  the  House  of  Lords.  It  was 
his  duty  to  be  present.  Such  bills  could  never  have  passed 
the  House  of  Commons  without  his  knowledge.  But  we  very 
well  know  by  what  rule  he  regulates  his  attendance.  When 


120  LETTERS  OF 

that  order  was  made  in  the  House  of  Lords  in  the  case  of 
Lord  Pom/ret*,  at  which  every  Englishman  shudders,  my 
honest  Lord  Mansfield  found  himself,  by  mere  accident,  in 
the  court  of  King's  Bench. — Otherwise,  he  would  have  done 
wonders  in  defence  of  law  and  propertv!  The  pitiful  evasion 
is  adapted  to  the  character.  But  Junius  will  never  justify 
himself,  by  the  example  of  this  bad  man.  The  distinction  be- 
tween doing  wrong-  and  avoiding  to  do  right  belongs  to  Lord 
Mansfield.  Junius  disclaims  it. 


LETTER  LXV. 

TO  LORD  CHIEF  JUSTICE  MANSFIELD. 

2  November,  1771. 
At  the  intercession  of  three  of  your  countrymen,  you  have 
bailed  a  man,  who,  I  presume,  is  also  a  Scotchman,  and  whom 
the  Lord  Mayor  of  London  had  refused  to  bailf .  I  do  not 
mean  to  enter  into  an  examination  of  the  partial,  sinister 
motives  of  your  conduct;  but  confining  myself  strictly  to  the 
fact,  I  affirm,  that  you  have  done  that,  which  by  law  you 
were  not  warranted  to  do.  The  thief  was  taken  in  the  theft; 
— the  stolen  goods  were  found  upon  him,  and  he  made  no 

*  A  case  brought  by  Lord  Pomfret  before  the  house,  from  one  of  the  in- 
ferior courts,  in  reference  to  a  tract  of  ground,  claimed  by  the  parish  in 
which  he  resided,  as  common  land,  but  maintained  by  his  Lordship  to  be 
a  part  of  his  own  freehold.  Edi  i. 

f  In  explanation  of  this  assertion,  the  Editor  extracts  the  following  para- 
graph from  the  Public  Advertiser,  Oct.  20,  17*71. 

"  Yesterday  application  was  made  to  the  Lord  Mayor,  by  the  friends  of 
John  Eyre,  Esq.  committed  on  the  oaths  of  Thomas  Fielding,  William  Hol- 
der, William  Payne,  and  William  Nash,  for  feloniously  stealing  eleven 
quires  of  writing  paper.  The  circumstances  were  so  strong  against  the  pri- 
soner, on  whom  the  goods  were  found,  and  no  defence  whatever  being  set 
up  by  him  before  the  magistrate  who  made  the  commitment,  that  the  Lord 
Mayor  refused  to  bail  him.  The  Alderman  who  committed  him,  had  be- 
fore refused  to  bail  him,  as  it  was  alleged  that  no  instance  whatever  had 
been  known  of  a  person  being  bailed  under  such  circumstances.  Mr.  Eyre 
was  however  bailed  yesterday  by  Lord  Mansfield,  himself  in  only  3iQ;.  and 
three  Scottish  securities  in  100/.  each,  a  Khiloch,  Farquar,  and  Innis.  Eyrt 
has  siJice  made  his  escape."  Edit. 


JUNIUS.  121 

defence.  In  these  circumstances,  (the  truth  of  which  You 
dare  not  deny,  because  it  is  of  public  notoriety)  it  could  not 
stand  indifferent  whether  he  was  guilty  or  not,  much  less 
could  there  be  any  presumption  of  his  innocence;  and,  in 
these  circumstances,  I  affirm,  in  contradiction  to  YOU, 
Lord  Chief  Justice  Mansfield,  that,  by  the  laws  of 
England,  he  was  not  bailable.  If  ever  Mr.  Eyre  should  be 
brought  to  trial#,  we  shall  hear  what  You  have  to  say  for 
Yourself;  and  I  pledge  myself,  before  God  and  my  country, 
in  proper  time  and  place  to  make  good  my  charge  against 
vou. 

JUNIUS. 


LETTER  LXVI. 

FOR  THE  PUBLIC  ADVERTISER. 

9  November,  1771. 
Junius  engages  to  make  good  his  charge  against  Lord- 
Chief  Justice  Mansfield,  some  time  before  the  meeting  of 
parliament,  in  order  that  the  House  of  Commons  may,  if 
they  think  proper,  make  it  one  article  in  the  impeachment  of 
the  said  Lord  Chief  Justice. 

*  The  facts  of  the  case  were  as  follow:  On  the  2nd  of  Oct.  1771,  Eyre 
was  committed  to  Wood-street  Compter,  by  Mr.  Alderman  Halifax,  for 
privately  stealing  out  of  a  room  at  Guildhall  three  quires  of  writing  paper, 
which  were  found  upon  him;  on  searching  his  lodgings,  there  were  dis- 
covered, in  a  bos,  eight  quires  more  of  the  same  sort  of  paper,  which  had 
been  marked  privately  for  the  discovery  of  the  thief.  Eyre  had  attended  at 
the  justice -room  for  a  considerable  time  under  the  pretence  of  learning 
the  business  of  a  magistrate,  to  which  situation,  he  said,  he  shortly  ex- 
pected to  be  appointed.  On  the  day  preceding  the  date  of  this  letter,  he 
surrendered  himself  at  the  Old  Bailey  to  take  his  trial  for  stealing  the 
paper,  to  which  charge  he  pleaded  guilty,  and  threw  himself  on  the  mercy 
of  the  court.  He  was  sentenced  to  be  transported.  This  sordid  wretch  was 
asserted  at  the  time  of  committing  so  miserable  a  theft,  to  be  worth  at 
least  thirty  thousand  pounds.  Edit. 

Vol.  II.  Q 


H%  LETTERS  OF 


LETTER  LXVII. 

TO  HIS  GRACE  THE  DUKE  OF  GRAFTON*. 

28  November,  1771. 
What  is  the  reason,  my  Lord,  that,  when  almost  every 
man  in  the  kingdom,  without  distinction  of  principles  or 
party,  exults  in  the  ridiculous  defeat  of  Sir  James  Lowtherf, 
when  good  and  bad  men  unite  in  one  common  opinion  of 
that  baronet,  and  triumph  in  his  distress,  as  if  the  event 
(without  any  reference  to  vice  or  virtue)  were  interesting  to 
human  nature,  your  Grace  alone  should  appear  so  miserably 
depressed  and  afflicted?  In  such  universal  joy,  I  know  not 
where  you  will  look  for  a  compliment  of  condolence,  unless 
you  appeal  to  the  tender,  sympathetic  sorrows  of  Mr.  Brad- 
shaw.  That  cream-coloured  gentleman's  tears:}:,  affecting  as 
they  are,  carry  consolation  along  with  them.  He  never 
weeps,  but,  like  an  April  shower,  with  a  lambent  ray  of  sun- 
shine upon  his  countenance.  From  the  feelings  of  honest 
men,  upon  this  joyful  occasion,  I  do  not  mean  to  draw  any 
conclusion  to  your  Grace.  They  naturally  rejoice,  when  they 
see  a  signal  instance  of  tyranny  resisted  with  success; — of 
treachery  exposed  to  the  derision  of  the  world; — an  infamous 

*  This  letter,  as  the  author  declares  in  Private  Letter,  No.  44,  was  writ- 
ten in  consequence  of  a  communication  from  Garrick  to  Ramus,  and  from 
the  latter  to  the  King,  that  Junius  would  write  no  more;  and  hence  the 
questions  in  the  concluding1  paragraph.  The  words  of  the  author  are, 
"•  David  Garrick  has  literally  forced  me  to  break  my  resolution  of  writing- 
no  more,"  for  the  subsequent  letter  addressed  to  Lord  Mansfield  was  com- 
pleted sometime  previous  to  the  date  of  this  Letter,  as  may  be  seen  in 
Private  Letter,  No.  40,  where,  and  in  that  which  follows  it,  will  be  found 
an  explanation  of  the  curious  circumstance  of  the  communication  to  the 
King,  the  author's  early  knowledge  of  the  fact,  and  a  copy  of  the  very 
severe  letter  that  he  sent  to  Mr.  Garrick,  in  consequence  of  the  informa- 
tion which  he  had  given  to  Mr.  Ramus.  Edit. 

f  He  refers  to  the  case  of  Lowther  against  the  Duke  of  Portland,  in  the 
contest  concerning  Inglewood  Forest,  &.c.  in  Cumberland.  See  the  detail 
and  determination  of  the  dispute  (which  last  had  now  just  taken  place)  in 
note  to  p.  78  of  this  volume.  Edit. 

\  See  Miscellaneous  Letter  lxxi.  in  this  vol  Edit. 


JUNIUS.  12a 

informer  defeated,  and  an  impudent  robber  dragged  to  the 
public  gibbet.— But,  in  the  other  class  of  mankind,  I  own  I 
expected  to  meet  the  Duke  of  Grafton.  Men,  who  have  no 
regard  for  justice,  nor  any  sense  of  honour,  seem  as  heartily 
pleased  with  Sir  James  Lowther's  well  deserved  punish- 
ment, as  if  it  did  not  constitute  an  example  against  them- 
selves. The  unhappy  Baronet  has  no  friends,  even  among 
those  who  resemble  him.  You,  my  Lord,  are  not  yet  reduced 
to  so  deplorable  a  state  of  dereliction.  Every  villain  in  the 
kingdom  is  your  friend;  and,  in  compliment  to  such  amity, 
I  think  you  should  suffer  your  dismal  countenance  to  clear 
up.  Besides,  my  Lord,  I  am  a  little  anxious  for  the  consist- 
ency of  your  character.  You  violate  your  own  rules  of  de- 
corum, when  you  do  not  insult  the  man  whom  you  have 
betrayed. 

The  divine  justice  of  retribution  aeems  now  to  have  be- 
gun its  progress.  Deliberate  treachery  entails  punishment 
upon  the  traitor.  There  is  no  possibility  of  escaping  it,  even 
in  the  highest  rank  to  which  the  consent  of  society  can  exalt 
the  meanest  and  worst  of  men.  The  forced,  unnatural  union 
of  Luttrell  and  Middlesex  was  an  omen  of  another  unnatural 
union,  by  which  indefeasible  infamy  is  attached  to  the  house 
of  Brunswick.  If  one  of  those  acts  was  virtuous  and  ho- 
nourable,the  best  of  princes,  I  thank  God,  is  happily  rewarded 
for  it  by  the  other. — Your  grace,  it  has  been  said,  had  some 
share  in  recommending  Colonel  Luttrell  to  the  King;— or 
was  it  only  the  gentle  Bradshaw,  who  made  himself  answer- 
able for  the  good  behaviour  of  his  friend?  An  intimate  con- 
nection has  long  subsisted  between  him  and  the  worthy 
Lord  Irnham.  It  arose  from  a  fortunate  similarity  of  prin- 
ciples, cemented  by  the  constant  mediation  of  their  common 
friend  Miss  Davis*. 

*  There  is  a  certain  family  in  this  country,  on  which  nature  seems  to 
have  entailed  an  hereditary  baseness  of  disposition.  As  far  as  their  history 
has  been  known,  the  son  has  regularly  improved  upon  the  vices  of  h is 
father,  and  has  taken  care  to  transmit  them  pure  and  undiminished  into 
the  bosom  of  his  successor.  In  the  senate,  their  abilities  have  confined  them 
to  those  humble,  sordid  services,  in  which  the  scavengers  of  the  ministry 
are  usually  employed.  But  in  the  memoirs  of  private  treachery,  they  stand 

first 


124  LETTERS  OF 

Yet  I  confess  I  should  be  sorry  that  the  opprobrious  mta-. 
my  of  this  match  should  reach  beyond  the  family. — We  have 
now  a  better  reason  than  ever  to  pray  for  the  long  life  of  the 
beet  of  princes,  and  the  welfare  of  his  royal  issue. — I  will 
not  mix  any  thing  ominous  with  my  prayers; — but  let  par- 
liament look  to  it. — A  Luttrell  shall  never  succeed  to  the 
crown  of  England*. — If  the  hereditary  virtues  of  the  family 
deserve  a  kingdom,  Scotland  will  be  a  proper  retreat  for 
them. 

The  next  is  a  most  remarkable  instance  of  the  goodness 
of  Providence.  The  just  law  of  retaliation  has  at  last  over- 
taken the  little,  contemptible  tyrant  of  the  North.  To  this 
son-in-law  of  your  dearest  friend  the  Earl  of  Bute,  you 
meant  to  transfer  the  Duke  of  Portland's  property!;  an<i  y011 
hastened  the  grant,  with  an  expedition  unknown  to  the  Trea- 
sury, that  he  might  have  it  time  enough  to  give  a  decisive 

first  and  unrivalled.  The  following  story  will  serve  to  illustrate  the  charac- 
ter of  this  respectable  family,  and  to  convince  the  world  that  the  present 
possessor  has  as  clear  a  title  to  the  infamy  of  his  ancestors,  as  he  has  to 
their  estate.  It  deserves  to  be  recorded  for  the  curiosity  of  the  fact,  and 
should  be  given  to  the  public  as  a  warning  to  every  honest  member  of 
society. 

The  present  Lord  Irnham,  who  is  now  in  the  decline  of  life,  lately  cul- 
tivated the  acquaintance  of  a  younger  brother  of  a  family,  with  which  he 
had  lived  in  some  degree  of  intimacy  and  friendship.  The  young  man  had 
long  been  the  dupe  of  a  most  unhappy  attachment  to  a  common  prostitute. 
His  friends  and  relations  foresaw  the  consequences  of  this  connection,  and 
did  every  thing  that  depended  upon  them  to  save  him  from  ruin.  But  he 
had  a  friend  in  Lord  Irnham,  whose  advice  rendered  all  their  endeavours 
ineffectual.  This  hoary  letcher,  not  contented  with  the  enjoyment  of  his 
friend's  mistress,  [the  notorious  Polly  Davis,  mentioned  in  the  letter  above] 
was  base  enough  to  take  advantage  of  the  passions  and  folly  of  a  young 
iTian,  and  persuaded  him  to  marry  her.  He  descended  even  to  perform  the 
office  of  father  to  the  prostitute.  He  gave  her  to  his  friend,  who  was  on 
the  point  of  leaving  the  kingdom,  and  the  next  night  lay  with  her  himself. 

Whether  the  depravity  of  the  human  heart  can  produce  any  thing  more 
base  and  detestable  than  this  fact,  must  be  left  undetermined,  until  the 
son  shall  arrive  at  his  father's  age  and  experience.  Author. 

This  note  appeared  in  the  Public  Advertiser,  April  7,  1769,  under  the 
signature  of  Recens.     Edit. 

*  The  Duke  of  Cumberland  was  now  married  to  Mrs.  Horton,  Colonel 
LuttreH's  sister.  See  Miscellaneous  Letter,  No.  CXI.  Edit. 

j  See  note  to  p.  78  of  this  volume.    Edit. 


JUNIUS.  125 

turn  to  the  election  for  the  county.  The  immediate  conse- 
quence of  this  flagitious  robbery  was,  that  he  lost  the  elec- 
tion, which  you  meant  to  insure  to  him,  and  with  such  sig- 
nal circumstances  of  scorn,  reproach  and  insult,  (to  say  no- 
thing of  the  general  exultation  of  all  parties)  as,  (excepting 
the  King's  brother-in-law  Colonel  Luttrell*,  and  old  Simon 
his  father-in-law)  hardly  ever  fell  upon  a  gentleman  in  this 
country. — In  the  event,  he  loses  the  very  property,  of  which 
he  thought  he  had  gotten  possession;  and  after  an  expense, 
which  would  have  paid  the  value  of  the  land  in  question 
twenty  times  over. — The  forms  of  villany,  you  see,  are  ne- 
cessary to  its  success.  Hereafter  you  will  act  with  greater 
circumspection,  and  not  drive  so  directly  to  your  object.  To 
snatch  a  grace,  beyond  the  reach  of  common  treachery,  is  an 
exception,  not  a  rule. 

And  now,  my  good  Lord,  does  not  your  conscious  heart 
inform  you,  that  the  justice  of  retribution  begins  to  operate, 
and  that  it  may  soon  approach  your  person? — Do  you  think 
that  Junius  has  renounced  the  Middlesex  election?— Or  that 
the  King's  timber  shall  be  refused  to  the  Royal  navy  with 
impunityf? — Or  tnat  you  shall  hear  no  more  of  the  sale  of 
that  patent  to  Mr.  Hine,  which  you  endeavoured  to  skreen  by 
suddenly  dropping  your  prosecution  of  Samuel  Vaughan\, 
when  the  rule  against  him  was  made  absolute?  I  believe  in- 
deed there  never  was  such  an  instance  in  all  the  history  of 
negative  impudence. — But  it  shall  not  save  you.  The  very 
sunshine  you  live  in,  is  a  prelude  to  your  dissolution.  When 
you  are  ripe,  you  shall  be  plucked.  JUNIUS. 

P.  S.  I  beg  you  will  convey  to  our  gracious  master  my 
humble  congratulations  upon  the  glorious  success  of  peerages 
and  pensions,  so  lavishly  distributed  as  the  rewards  of  Irish 
virtue. 

*  See  Miscellaneous  Letters,  No.  en.  Our  author  thus  denominates 
his  Majesty,  because  by  the  marriage  of  Luttrell's  sister,  Mrs.  Horton, 
with  the  Duke  of  Cumberland,  Luttrell  was  legally  become  the  brother- 
in-law  to  the  king's  brother;  as  was  Luttrell's  father,  father-in-law  to  him. 
Edit. 

f  See  note  to  p.  82  of  this  volume.    Edit. 

\  See  Letter  xxxm.  p.  185  of  vol.  I.  and  Private  Letter,  No.  17.  for  the 
particulars  of  the  transaction  here  alluded  to.    Edit. 


126  LETTERS  OF 


LETTER  LXVIII. 

TO  LORD  CHIEF  JUSTICE  MANSFIELD. 

21  January,  1772. 
I  have  undertaken  to  prove  that  when,  at  the  intercession 
of  three  of  your  countrymen,  you  bailed  John  Eyre,  you  did 
that,  which  by  law  you  were  not  warranted  to  do,  and  that  a 
felon,  under  the  circumstances,  of  being  taken  in  the  fact, 
xvith  the  stolen  goods  upon  him,  and  making  no  defence,  is  not 
bailable  by  the  laws  of  England.  Your  learned  advocates 
have  interpreted  this  charge  into  a  denial  that  the  court  of 
King's  Bench,  or  the  judges  of  that  court  during  the  vacation, 
have  any  greater  authority  to  bail  for  criminal  offences,  than 
a  justice  of  peace.  With  the  instance  before  me,  I  am  sup- 
posed to  question  your  power  of  doing  wrong,  and  to  deny 
the  existence  of  a  power  at  the  same  moment  that  I  arraign 
the  illegal  exercise  of  it.  But  the  opinions  of  such  men, 
whether  wilful  in  their  malignity,  or  sincere  in  their  igno- 
rance, are  unworthy  of  my  notice.  You,»  Lord  Mansfield, 
did  not  understand  me  so,  and  I  promise  you,  your  cause 
requires  an  abler  defence. — I  am  now  to  make  good  my 
charge  against  you.  However  dull  my  argument,  the  sub- 
ject of  it  is  interesting.  I  shall  be  honoured  with  the  atten- 
tion of  the  public,  and  have  a  right  to  demand  the  attention 
of  the  legislature.  Supported,  as  I  am,  by  the  whole  body  of 
the  criminal  law  of  England,  I  have  no  doubt  of  establishing 
my  charge.  If,  on  your  part,  you  should  have  no  plain,  sub- 
stantial defence,  but  should  endeavour  to  shelter  yourself 
under  the  quirk  and  evasion  of  a  practising  lawyer,  or  under 
the  mere  insulting  assertion  of  power  without  right,  the  repu- 
tation you  pretend  to  is  gone  for  ever; — you  stand  degraded 
from  the  respect  and  authority  of  your  office,  and  are  no 
longer  dejure,  Lord  Chief  Justice  of  England.  This  letter, 
my  Lord,  is  addressed,  not  so  much  to  you,  as  to  the  public. 
Learned  as  you  are,  and  quick  in  apprehension,  few  argu- 
ments are  necessary  to  satisfy  you,  that  you  have  done  that, 
tyhich  by  law  you  were  not  warranted  to  do.    Your  con- 


JUNIUS.  127 

science  already  tells  you,  that  you  have  sinned  against  know- 
ledge, and  that  whatever  defence  you  make  contradicts  your 
own  internal  conviction.  But  other  men  are  willing  enough 
to  take  the  law  upon  trust.  They  rely  upon  authority,  be- 
cause they  are  too  indolent  to  search  for  information;  or, 
conceiving  that  there  is  some  mystery  in  the  laws  of  their 
country,  which  lawyers  are  only  qualified  to  explain,  they 
distrust  their  judgment,  and  voluntarily  renounce  the  right 
of  thinking  for  themselves.  With  all  the  evidence  of  history 
before  them,  from  Tresillian  to  Jefferies,  from  Jefferies  to 
Mansfield^  they  will  not  believe  it  possible  that  a  learned  judge 
can  act  in  direct  contradiction  to  those  laws,  which  he  is  sup- 
posed to  have  made  the  study  of  his  life,  and  which  he  has 
sworn  to  administer  faithfully.  Superstition  is  certainly  not 
the  characteristic  of  this  age.  Yet  some  men  are  bigoted  in 
politics  who  are  infidels  in  religion. — I  do  not  despair  of 
making  them  ashamed  of  their  credulity. 

The  charge  I  brought  against  you  is  expressed  in  terms 
guarded  and  well  considered.  They  do  not  deny  the  strict 
power  of  the  judges  of  the  court  of  King's  Bench  to  bail  in 
cases,  not  bailable  by  a  justice  of  peace,  nor  replevisable 
by  the  common  writ,  or  ex  officio  by  the  Sheriff.  I  well  knew 
the  practice  of  the  court,  and  by  what  legal  rules  it  ought  to 
be  directed.  But  far  from  meaning  to  soften  or  diminish  the 
force  of  those  terms  I  have  made  use  of,  I  now  go  beyond 
them,  and  affirm, 

I.  That  the  superior  power  of  bailing  for  felony,  claimed 
by  the  court  of  King's  Bench,  is  founded  upon  the  opinion 
of  lawyers,  and  the  practice  of  the  court; — that  the  assent  of 
the  legislature  to  this  power  is  merely  negative,  and  that  it 
is  not  supported  by  any  positive  provision  in  any  statute 
whatsoever. — If  it  be,  produce  the  statute. 

II.  Admitting  that  the  judges  of  the  court  of  King's  Bench 
are  vested  with  a  discretionary  power  to  examine  and  judge 
of  circumstances  and  allegations,  which  a  justice  of  peace  is 
not  permitted  to  consider,  I  affirm,  that  the  judges,  in  the  use 
and  application  of  that  discretionary  power,  are  as  strictly 
bound  by  the  spirit,  intent,  and  meaning,  as  the  justice  of 


128  LETTERS  OF 

peace  is  by  the  words  of  the  legislature.  Favourable  circum- 
stances, alledged  before  the  judge,  may  justify  a  doubt  whe- 
ther the  prisoner  be  guilty  or  not;  and  where  the  guilt  is 
doubtful,  a  presumption  of  innocence  should,  in  general,  be 
admitted.  But,  when  any  such  probable  circumstances  are 
alledged,  they  alter  the  state  and  condition  of  the  prisoner. 
He  is  no  longer  that  all-but-convicted  felon,  whom  the  law 
intends,  and  who  by  law  is  not  bailable  at  all.  If  no  circum- 
stances whatsoever  are  alledged  in  his  favour; — if  no  alle- 
gation whatsoever  be  made  to  lessen  the  force  of  that  evi- 
dence, which  the  law  annexes  to  a  positive  charge  of  felony, 
and  particularly  to  the  fact  of  being  taken  with  the  maner,  I 
then  say  that  the  Lord  Chief  Justice  of  England  has  no  more 
right  to  bail  him  than  a  justice  of  peace.  The  discretion  of 
an  English  judge  is  not  of  mere  will  and  pleasure;  it  is  not 
arbitrary; — it  is  not  capricious;  but,  as  that  great  lawyer, 
(whose  authority  I  wish  you  respected  half  as  much  as  I  do) 
truly  says*,  "  Discretion,  taken  as  it  ought  to  be,  is  discer- 
nere  per  legem  quid  sit  justum.  If  it  be  not  directed  by  the 
right  line  of  the  law,  it  is  a  crooked  cord,  and  appeareth  to 
be  unlawful." — If  discretion  were  arbitrary  in  the  judge,  he 
might  introduce  whatever  novelties  he  thought  proper;  but, 
says  Lord  Coke,  "  Novelties,  without  warrant  of  precedents, 
are  not  to  be  allowed;  some  certain  rules  are  to  be  followed; 
— §>uicquid  judicis  authoritati  subjicitury  novitati  non  subji- 
citur;"  and  this  sound  doctrine  is  applied  to  the  Star-cham- 
ber, a  court  confessedly  arbitrary.  If  you  will  abide  by  the 
authority  of  this  great  man,  you  shall  have  all  the  advantage 
of  his  opinion,  wherever  it  appears  to  favour  you.  Except- 
ing the  plain,  express  meaning  of  the  legislature,  to  which  all 
private  opinions  must  give  way,  I  desire  no  better  judge  be- 
tween us  than  Lord  Coke. 

III.  I  affirm  that,  according  to  the  obvious,  indisputable 
meaning  of  the  legislature,  repeatedly  expressed,  a  person 
positively  charged  with  feloniously  stealing  and  taken  in  fla- 
grante delicto.,  with  the  stolen  goods  upon  him,  is  not  baila- 

*  4  Inst.  41.  66. 


JUNIUS.  129 

ble.  The  law  considers  him  as  differing  in  nothing  from  a 
convict,  but  in  the  form  of  conviction,  and  (whatever  a  cor- 
rupt judge  may  do)  will  accept  of  no  security,  but  the  con- 
finement of  his  body  within  four  walls.  I  know  it  has  been 
alledged  in  your  favour,  that  you  have  often  bailed  for  mur- 
ders, rapes,  and  other  manifest  crimes.  Without  question- 
ing the  fact,  I  shall  not  admit  that  you  are  to  be  justified  by 
your  own  example.  If  that  were  a  protection  to  you,  where 
is  the  crime  that,  as  a  judge,  you  might  not  now  securely 
commit?  But  neither  shall  I  suffer  myself  to  be  drawn  aside 
from  my  present  argument,  nor  you  to  profit  by  your  own 
wrong.  To  prove  the  meaning  and  intent  of  the  legislature 
will  require  a  minute  and  tedious  deduction.  To  investigate 
a  question  of  law  demands  some  labour  and  attention,  though 
very  little  genius  or  sagacity.  As  a  practical  profession,  the 
study  of  the  law  requires  but  a  moderate  portion  of  abilities* 
The  learning  of  a  pleader  is  usually  upon  a  level  with  his 
integrity.  The  indiscriminate  defence  of  right  and  wrong 
contracts  the  understanding,  while  it  corrupts  the  heart. 
Subtlety  is  soon  mistaken  for  wisdom,  and  impunity  for  vir- 
tue. If  there  be  any  instances  upon  record,  as  some  there 
are  undoubtedly,  of  genius  and  morality  united  in  a  lawyer, 
they  are  distinguished  by  their  singularity,  and  operate  as 
exceptions. 

I  must  solicit  the  patience  of  my  readers.  This  is  no  light 
matter,  nor  is  it  any  more  susceptible  of  ornament,  than  the 
conduct  of  Lord  Mansfield  is  capable  of  aggravation. 

As  the  law  of  bail  in  charges  of  felony,  has  been  exactly 
ascertained  by  acts  of  the  legislature,  it  is  at  present  of  little 
consequence  to  enquire  how  it  stood  at  common  law,  before 
the  statute  of  Westminster.  And  yet  it  is  worth  the  reader's 
attention  to  observe,  how  nearly,  in  the  ideas  of  our  ances- 
tors, the  circumstance  of  being  taken  -with  the  maner  ap- 
proached to  the  conviction  of  the  felon*.  It  "  fixed  the  au- 
thoritative stamp  of  verisimilitude  upon  the  accusation,  and 
by  the  common  law,  when  a  thief  was  taken  xo'ith  the  maner 

*  Blackstoiie,  4.  303. 

Vol.  II.  R 


|5Q  LETTERS  OF 

(that  is,  with  the  thing  stolen  upon  him,  in  manii)  he  might, 
so  detected  flagrante  delicto,  be  brought  into  court,  arraigned 
and  tried,  xvithout  indictment;  as,  by  the  Danish  law,  he 
might  be  taken  and  hanged  upon  the  spot,  without  accusa- 
tion or  trial."  It  will  soon  appear  that  our  statute  law,  in  this 
behalf,  though  less  summary  in  point  of  proceeding,  is  di- 
rected by  the  same  spirit.  In  one  instance,  the  very  form  is 
adhered  to.  In  offences  relating  to  the  forest,  if  a  man  was 
taken  with  vert,  or  venison*,  it  was  declared  to  be  equiva- 
lent to  indictment.  To  enable  the  reader  to  judge  for  him- 
self, I  shall  state,  in  due  order,  the  several  statutes  relative 
to  bail  in  criminal  cases,  or  as  much  of  them  as  may  be  ma- 
terial to  the  point  in  question,  omitting  superfluous  words. 
If  I  misrepresent,  or  do  not  quote  with  fidelity,  it  will  not  be 
difficult  to  detect  me. 

f  The  statute  of  Westminster  the  first,  in  1275,  sets  forth 
that,  "  Forasmuch  as  Sheriffs  and  others,  who  have  taken 
and  kept  in  prison  persons  detected  of  felony,  and  inconti- 
nent have  left  out  by  replevin  such  as  were  not  replevisable 
because  they  would  gain  of  the  one  party  and  grieve  the 
other;  and,  forasmuch  as,  before  this  time,  it  was  not  deter- 
mined which  persons  were  replevisable  and  which  not,  it  is 
provided  and  by  the  King  commanded  that  such  prisoners, 
&c.  as  be  taken  with  the  maner,  Sec.  or  for  manifest  offences, 
shall  be  in  no  -wise  replevisable  by  the  common  writ,  nor 
without  writ:}:." — Lord  Coke,  in  his  exposition  of  the  last 
part  of  this  quotation,  accurately  distinguishes  between  re- 
plevy  by  the  common  writ  or  ex  officio,  and  bail  by  the  King's 

*  Ed.  III.  cap.  8— and  7  Rich.  II.  cap.  4. 

■f  "  Videtur  que  le  statute  de  mai?iprise  nest  que  rehersall  del  comen  ley."-~. 
Bro.  Mainp.  61. 

\  "  There  are  three  points  to  be  considered  in  the  construction  of  all 
remedial  statutes; — the  old  law,  the  mischief,  and  the  remedy; — that  is, 
how  the  common  law  stood  at  the  making  of  the  act,  what  the  mischief 
was  for  which  the  common  law  did  not  provide,  and  what  remedy  the  par- 
liament hath  provided  to  cure  this  mischief.  It  is  the  business  of  the  judge? 
so  to  construe  the  act,  as  to  suppress  the  mischief  and  advance  the  reme 
dy." — Black  stone,  1.  87. 


JUNIUS.  131 

Bench.  The  words  of  the  statute  certainly  do  not  extend  tp 
the  judges  of  that  court.  But,  besides  that  the  reader  will 
soon  find  reason  to  think  that  the  legislature,  in  their  inten- 
tion, made  no  difference  between  bailable  and  replevisable, 
Lord  Coke  himself  (if  he  be  understood  to  mean  nothing  but 
an  exposition  of  the  statute  of  Westminster,  and  not  to  state 
the  law  generally)  does  not  adhere  to  his  own  distinction. 
In  expounding  the  other  offences,  which,  by  this  statute,  are 
declared  not  replevisable,  he  constantly  uses  the  words  not 
bailable. — "  That  outlaws,  for  instance,  are  not  bailable  at 
all; — that  persons,  who  have  abjured  the  realm,  are  attainted 
upon  their  own  confession,  and  therefore  not  bailable  at  all 
by  laxv; — that  provers  are  not  bailable; — that  notorious  felons 
are  not  bailable"  The  reason,  why  the  superior  courts  were 
not  named  in  the  statute  of  Westminster,  was  plainly  this, 
"  because  anciently  most  of  the  business,  touching  bailment 
of  prisoners  for  felony  or  misdemeanors,  was  performed  by 
the  sheriffs,  or  special  bailiffs  of  liberties,  either  by  writ,  or 
virtute  officii*";  consequently  the  superior  courts  had  little 
or  no  opportunity  to  commit  those  abuses,  which  the  statute 
imputes  to  the  sheriffs. — With  submission  to  Doctor  Black- 
stone,  I  think  he  has  fallen  into  a  contradiction,  which,  in 
terms  at  least,  appears  irreconcileable.  After  enumerating 
several  offences  not  bailable,  he  asserts,  without  any  condi- 
tion or  limitation  whatsoever!,  "  all  these  are  clearly  not  ad- 
missible to  bail."  Yet  in  a  few  lines  after  he  says,  '*  it  is 
agreed  that  the  court  of  King's  Bench  may  bail  for  any  crime 
whatsoever,  according  to  circumstances  o/'the  case."  To  his 
first  proposition  he  should  have  added,  by  sheriffs  or  justices; 
otherwise  the  two  propositions  contradict  each  other;  with 
this  difference  however,  that  the  first  is  absolute,  the  second 
limited  by  a  consideration  of  circumstances.  I  say  this  with- 
out the  least  intended  disrespect  to  the  learned  author.  His 
work  is  of  public  utility,  and  should  not  hastily  be  con- 
demned. 

The  statute  of  17  Richard  II.  cap.  10.  1393,  sets  forth. 

•  2  Hale,  P.  C.  128. 136.  t  Blackstone,  4.  296. 


132  LETTERS  OF 

that  forasmuch  as  thieves  "  notoriously  defamed,  and  others 
taken  with  the  maner,  by  their  long  abiding  in  prison,  were 
delivered  by  charters,  and  favourable  inquests  procured,  to 
the  great  hinderance  of  the  people,  two  men  of  law  shall  be 
assigned,  in  every  commission  of  the  peace,  to  proceed  to 
the  deliverance  of  such  felons,  &c."  It  seems  by  this  act, 
that  there  was  a  constant  struggle  between  the  legislature 
and  the  officers  of  justice.  Not  daring  to  admit  felons  taken 
with  the  maner  to  bail  or  mainprize,  they  evaded  the  law  by 
keeping  the  party  in  prison  a  long  time,  and  then  delivering 
him  without  due  trial. 

The  statute  of  1  Richard  III.  in  1483,  sets  forth,  that 
M  forasmuch  as  divers  persons  have  been  daily  arrested  and 
imprisoned  for  suspicion  of  felony,  sometime  of  malice,  and 
sometime  of  a  light  suspicion,  and  so  kept  in  prison  without 
bail  or  mainprize,  be  it  ordained  that  every  justice  of  peace 
shall  have  authority,  by  his  discretion,  to  let  such  prisoners 
and  persons  so  arrested  to  bail  or  mainprize." — By  this  act 
it  appears  that  there  had  been  abuses  in  matter  of  imprison- 
ment, and  that  the  legislature  meant  to  provide  for  the  im- 
mediate enlargement  of  persons  arrested  on  light  suspicion 
of  felony. 

The  statute  of  3  Henry  VII.  in  1486,  declares,  that  "  un- 
der colour  of  the  preceding  act  of  Richard  the  third,  persons, 
such  as  were  not  mainpernable,  were  oftentimes  let  to  bail  or 
mainprize,  by  justices  of  the  peace,  whereby  many  murder- 
ers and  felons  escaped,  the  King,  &c.  hath  ordained,  that  the 
justices  of  the  peace,  or  two  of  them  at  least  (whereof  one  to 
be  of  the  quorum)  have  authority  to  let  any  such  prisoners  or 
persons,  mainpernable  by  the  law,  to  bail  or  mainprize." 

The  statute  of  1st  and  2d  of  Philip  and  Mary,  in  1554, 
sets  forth,  that  "  notwithstanding  the  preceding  statute  of 
Henry  the  seventh,  one  justice  of  peace  hath  oftentimes,  by 
sinister  labour  and  means,  set  at  large  the  greatest  and  nota- 
blest  offenders,  such  as  be  riot  replcvisable  by  the  laws  of  this 
realm,  and  yet,  the  rather  to  hide  their  affections  in  that  be- 
half, have  assigned  the  cause  of  their  apprehension  to  be  but 
only  for  suspicion  of  felony,  whereby  the  said  offenders  have 


JUNIUS.  133 

esoaped  unpunished,  and  do  daily,  to  the  high  displeasure  of 
Almighty  God,  the  great  peril  of  the  King  and  Queen's  true 
subjects,  and  encouragement  of  all  thieves  and  evil-doers;— 
for  reformation  whereof  be  it  enacted,  that  no  justice  of 
peace  shall  let  to  bail  or  mainprize  any  such  persons,  which, 
for  any  offence  by  them  committed,  be  declared  not  to  be  re- 
plevised,  or  bailed,  or  be  forbidden  to  be  replevied  or  bailed 
by  the  statute  of  Westminster  the  first;  and  furthermore  that 
any  persons,  arrested  for  manslaughter  or  felony,  being  bail- 
able by  the  law,  shall  not  be  let  to  bail  or  mainprize,  by  any 
justices  of  peace,  but  in  the  form  thereinafter  prescribed." — 
In  the  two  preceding  statutes,  the  words  bailable,  replevisa- 
ble,  and  mainpernable  are  used  synonymously*,  or  promis- 
cuously to  express  the  same  single  intention  of  the  legisla- 
ture, viz.  not  to  accept  of  any  security  but  the  body  of  the  of- 
fender; and  when  the  latter  statute  prescribes  the  form,  in 
which  persons  arrested  on  suspicion  of  felony  (being  bailable 
by  the  law)  may  be  let  to  bail,  it  evidently  supposes  that  there 
are  some  cases,  not  bailable  by  the  law. — It  may  be  thought 
perhaps,  that  I  attribute  to  the  legislature  an  appearance  of 
inaccuracy  in  the  use  of  terms,  merely  to  serve  my  present 
purpose.  But,  in  truth,  it  would  make  more  forcibly  for  my 
argument  to  presume  that  the  legislature  were  constantly 
aware  of  the  strict  legal  distinction  between  bail  and  replevy, 
and  that  they  always  meant  to  adhere  to  itf.  For  if  it  be  true 
that  replevy  is  by  the  sheriffs,  and  bail  by  the  higher  courts 
at  Westminster,  (which  I  think  no  lawyer  will  deny)  it  fol- 
lows that,  when  the  legislature  expressly  sav,  that  any  parti- 
cular offence  is  by  law  not  bailable,  the  superior  courts  are 
comprehended  in  the  prohibition,  and  bound  by  it.  Other- 
wise, unless  there  was  a  positive  exception  of  the  superior 
courts  (which  I  affirm  there  never  was  in  any  statute  relative 
to  bail)  the  legislature  would  grossly  contradict  themselves, 
and  the  manifest  intention   of  the  law  be  evaded.  It  is  an 

*  2  Hale,  P.  C.  2.  124. 

\  Vide  2  Inst.  150.  186. — "  The  word  repiemsable  never  signifies  bailable. 
Bailable,  is  in  a  court  of  record  by  the  King's  justices;  but  replevisable  i? 
by  the  Sheriff  "Seklen,  State  Tr.  7.  149. 


154  LETTERS  OF 

established  rule  that,  when  the  law  is  special,  and  the  reason 
of  it  general,  it  is  to  be  generally  understood;  and  though,  by 
custom,  a  latitude  be  allowed  to  the  court  of  King's  Bench, 
(to  consider  circumstances  inductive  of  a  doubt  whether  the 
prisoner  be  guilty  or  innocent)  if  this  latitude  be  taken  as  an 
arbitrary  power  to  bail,  when  no  circumstances  whatsoever 
are  alleged  in  favour  of  the  prisoner,  it  is  a  power  without 
right,  and  a  daring  violation  of  the  whole  English  law  of 
bail. 

The  act  of  31st  of  Charles  the  second  (commonly  called 
the  Habeas  Corpus  Act)  particularly  declares,  that  it  is  not 
meant  to  extend  to  treason  or  felony  plainly  and  specially 
expressed  in  the  warrant  of  commitment.  The  prisoner  is 
therefore  left  to  seek  his  Habeas  Corpus  at  common  law;  and 
so  far  was  the  legislature  from  supposing  that  persons,  (com- 
mitted for  treason  or  felony  plainly  and  specially  expressed 
in  the  warrant  of  commitment)  could  be  let  to  bail  by  a  sin- 
gle judge,  or  by  the  whole  court,  that  this  very  act  provides 
a  remedy  for  such  persons,  in  case  they  are  not  indicted  in 
the  course  of  the  term  or  session  subsequent  to  their  com- 
mitment. The  law  neither  suffers  them  to  be  enlarged  before 
trial,  nor  to  be  imprisoned  after  the  time,  in  which  they  ought 
regularly  to  be  tried.  In  this  case  the  law  says,  M  It  shall  and 
may  be  lawful  to  and  for  the  judges  of  the  court  of  King's 
Bench  and  justices  of  oyer  and  terminer,  or  general  gaol  de- 
livery, and  they  are  hereby  required,  upon  motion  to  them 
made  in  open  court,  the  last  day  of  the  term,  session,  or  gaol 
delivery,  either  by  the  prisoner  or  any  one  in  his  behalf,  to 
set  at  liberty  the  prisoner  upon  bail;  unless  it  appear  to  the 
judges  and  justices,  upon  oath  made,  that  the  witnesses  for 
the  King  could  not  be  produced  the  same  term,  sessions,  or 
gaol  delivery." — Upon  the  whole  of  this  article  1  observe, 

1°.  That  the  provision,  made  in  the  first  part  of  it,  would 
be,  in  a  great  measure,  useless  and  nugatory,  if  any  single 
judge  might  have  bailed  the  prisoner  ex  arbitrio,  during  the 
vacation;  or  if  the  court  might  have  bailed  him  immediately 
after  the  commencement  of  the  term  or  sessions. — 2°.  When 
the  law  says,  Jt  shall  and  may  be  lawful  to  bail  for  felony  un- 


JUNIUS.  135 

der  particular  circumstances,  we  must  presume  that,  before 
the  passing  of  that  act,  it  was  not  lawful  to  bail  under  those 
circumstances.  The  terms  used  by  the  legislature  are  enact- 
ing, not  declaratory. — 3°.  Notwithstanding  the  party  may 
have  been  imprisoned  during  the  greatest  part  of  the  vaca- 
tion, and  during  the  whole  session,  the  court  are  expressly 
forbidden  to  bail  him  from  that  session  to  the  next,  if  oath 
be  made  that  the  witnesses  for  the  King  could  not  be  pro- 
duced that  same  term  or  sessions. 

Having  faithfully  stated  the  several  acts  of  parliament  re- 
lative to  bail  in  criminal  cases,  it  may  be  useful  to  the  reader 
to  take  a  short,  historical  review  of  the  law  of  bail,  through 
its  various  gradations  and  improvements. 

By  the  ancient  common  law,  before  and  since  the  con- 
quest, all  felonies  were  bailable,  till  murder  was  excepted  by 
statute,  so  that  persons  might  be  admitted  to   bail,  before 
conviction,  almost  in  every  case.  The  statute  of  Westmin- 
ster says  that,  before  that  time,  it  had  not  been  determined, 
which  offences  were  replevisable,  and  which  were  not,  whe- 
ther by  the  common  writ  de  homine  replegiando,  or  ex  officio 
by  the  Sheriff.  It  is  very  remarkable  that  the  abuses  arising 
from  this  unlimited  power  of  replevy,  dreadful  as  they  were, 
and  destructive  to  the  peace  of  society,  were  not  corrected 
or  taken  notice  of  by  the  legislature,  until  the  commons  of 
the  kingdom  had  obtained  a  share  in  it  by  their  representa- 
tives; but  the  House  of  Commons  had  scarce  begun  to  exist, 
when  these  formidable  abuses  were  corrected  by  the  statute 
of  Westminster.   It  is  highly  probable  that  the  mischief  had 
been  severely  felt  by  the  people,  although  no  remedy  had 
been  provided  for  it  by  the  Norman  Kings  or  Barons.  ***  The 
:   iniquity  of  the  times  was  so  great,  as  it  even  forced  the  sub- 
I  jects  to  forego  that,  which  was  in  account  a  great  liberty,  to 
|  stop  the  course  of  a  growing  mischief."  The  preamble  to  the 
|  statutes,  made  by  the  first  parliament  of  Edward  the  first, 
|  assigns  the  reason  of  calling  it,  f  "  because  the  people  had 
i  been  otherwise  entreated  than  they  ought  to  be,  the  peace 
less  kept,  the  laws  less  used,  and  offenders  less  punished  thaE 

*  Seide/ij  by  JV.  Bacon.  182.  t  Parliamentary  History.  1.  82. 


136  LETTERS  OF 

they  ought  to  be,  by  reason  whereof  the  people  feared  less  to 
offend;"  and  the  first  attempt  to  reform  these  various  abuses 
was  by  contracting  the  power  of  replevying  felons. 

For  above  two  centuries  following  it  does  not  appear  that 
any  alteration  was  made  in  the  law  of  bail,  except  that  being 
taken  with  vert  or  venison  was  declared  to  be  equivalent  to 
indictment.  The  legislature  adhered  firmly  to  the  spirit  of  the 
statute  of  Westminster.  The  statute  of  27th  of  Edward  the 
first  directs  the  justices  of  assize  to  inquire  and  punish  offi- 
cers bailing  such  as  were  not  bailable.  As  for  the  judges  of 
the  superior  courts,  it  is  probable  that,  in  those  days,  they 
thought  themselves  bound  by  the  obvious  intent  and  mean- 
ing of  the  legislature.  They  considered  not  so  much  to  what 
particular  persons  the  prohibition  was  addressed,  as  what  the 
thing  was,  which  the  legislature  meant  to  prohibit,  well 
knowing  that  in  law,  quando  aliquid  prohibetur,  prohibetur 
et  omne,  per  quod  devenitur  ad  illud.  "  When  any  thing  is 
forbidden,  all  the  means,  by  which  the  same  thing  may  be 
compassed  or  done,  are  equally  forbidden." 

By  the  statute  of  Richard  the  third,  the  power  of  bailing 
was  a  little  enlarged.  Every  justice  of  peace  was  authorized 
to  bail  for  felony;  but  they  were  expressly  confined  to  per- 
sons arrested  on  light  suspicion;  and  even  this  power,  so 
limited,  was  found  to  produce  such  inconveniences  that,  in 
three  years  after,  the  legislature  found  it  necessary  to  repeal 
it.  Instead  of  trusting  any  longer  to  a  single  justice  of  peace, 
the  act  of  3d  Henry  Vllth,  repeals  the  preceding  act,  and 
directs  "that  no  prisoner,  {of  those  who  are  mainpernable  by 
the  law)  shall  be  let  to  bail  or  mainprize,  by  less  than  two 
justices,  whereof  one  to  be  of  the  quorum."  And  so  indis- 
pensably necessary  was  this  provision  thought,  for  the  ad- 
ministration of  justice,  and  for  the  security  and  peace  of 
society,  that,  at  this  time,  an  oath  was  proposed  by  the  King 
to  be  taken  by  the  knights  and  esquires  of  his  household,  by 
the  members  of  the  House  of  Commons,  and  by  the  peers, 
spiritual  and  temporal,  and  accepted  and  sworn  to  quasi  una 
voce  by  them  all,  which,  among  other  engagements,  binds 
them  "  not  to  let  anv  man  to  bail  or  mainprize,  knowing  and 


JUNIUS,  137 

deeming  him  to  be  a  felon,  upon  your  honour  and  worship. 
So  help  you  God  and  all  saints*." 

In  about  half  a  century  however  even  these  provisions 
were  found  insufficient.  The  act  of  Henry  the  seventh  was 
evaded,  and  the  legislature  once  more  obliged  to  interpose. 
The  act  of  1st  and  2d  of  Philip  and  Mary  takes  away  entirely 
from  the  justices  all  power  of  bailing  for  offences  declared 
not  bailable  by  the  statute  of  Westminster. 

The  illegal  imprisonment  of  several  persons,  who  had  re- 
fused to  contribute  to  a  loan  exacted  by  Charles  the  6rst,  and 
the  delay  of  the  Habeas  Corpus  and  subsequent  refusal  to 
bail  them,  constituted  one  of  the  first  and  most  important 
grievances  of  that  reign.  Yet  when  the  House  of  Commons, 
which  met  in  the  year  1628,  resolved  upon  measures  of  the 
most  firm  and  strenuous  resistance  to  the  power  of  imprison- 
ment assumed  by  the  King  or  privy-council,  and  to  the  re- 
fusal to  bail  the  party  on  the  return  of  the  Habeas  Corpus, 
they  did  expressly,  in  all  their  resolutions,  make  an  excep- 
tion of  commitments,  where  the  cause  of  the  restraint  was 
expressed,  and  did  by  law  justify  the  commitment.  The 
reason  of  the  distinction  is,  that,  whereas  when  the  cause  of 
commitment  is  expressed,  the  crime  is  then  known  and  the 
offender  must  be  brought  to  the  ordinary  trial;  if,  on  the  con- 
trary, no  cause  of  commitment  be  expressed,  and  the  prisoner 
be  thereupon  remanded,  it  may  operate  to  perpetual  impri- 
sonment. This  contest  with  Charles  the  first  produced  the 
act  of  the  16th  of  that  King,  by  which  the  court  of  King's 
Bench  are  directed,  within  three  days  after  the  return  to  the 
Habeas  Corpus  to  examine  and  determine  the  legality  of  any 
commitment  by  the  King  or  privy-council,  and  to  do  what 
to  justice  shall  appertain  in  delivering,  bailing,  or  remanding 
the  prisoner. — Now,  it  seems,  it  is  unnecessary  for  the  judge 
to  do  what  appertains  to  justice.  The  same  scandalous  traf- 
fic, in  which  we  have  seen  the  privilege  of  parliament  exerted 
or  relaxed,  to  gratify  the  present  humour,  or  to  serve  the 
immediate  purpose  of  the  crown,  is  introduced  into  the  ad- 

*  Parliamentary  Historv,  2. 419. 
Vol.  II.  S 


138  LETTERS  OF 

ministration  of  justice.  The  magistrate,  it  seems,  has  now 
no  rule  to  follow,  but  the  dictates  of  personal  enmity,  na- 
tional partiality,  or  perhaps  the  most  prostituted  corruption. 
To  complete  this  historical  inquiry,  it  only  remains  to  be 
observed  that,  the  Habeas  Corpus  act  of  31st  of  Charles  the 
second,  so  justly  considered  as  another  Magna  Charta  of  the 
kingdom  "  extends  only  to  the  case  of  commitments  for  such 
criminal  charge,  as  can  produce  no  inconvenience  to  public 
justice  by  a  temporary  enlargement  of  the  prisoner*.'1 — So 
careful  were  the  legislature,  at  the  very  moment,  when  they 
were  providing  for  the  liberty  of  the  subjeet,  not  to  furnish 
any  colour  or  pretence  for  violating  or  evading  the  establish- 
ed law  of  bail  in  the  higher  criminal  offences.  But  the  ex- 
ception, stated  in  the  body  of  the  act,  puts  the  matter  out  of 
all  doubt.  After  directing  the  judges  how  they  are  to  pro- 
ceed to  the  discharge  of  the  prisoner  upon  recognizance  and 
surety,  having  regard  to  the  quality  of  the  prisoner  and  na- 
ture of  the  offence,  it  is  expressly  added,  "  unless  it  shall 
appear  to  the  said  Lord  Chancellor,  &c.  that  the  party,  so 
committed,  is  detained  for  such  matters,  or  offences,  for  the 

Which,  BY  THE  LAW  THE  PRISONER  IS  NOT  BAILABLE." 

When  the  laws,  plain  of  themselves,  are  thus  illustrated 
by  facts,  and  their  uniform  meaning  established  by  history, 
we  do  not  want  the  authority  of  opinions  however  respecta- 
ble, to  inform  our  judgment  or  to  confirm  our  belief.  But  I 
am  determined  that  you  shall  have  no  escape.  Authority  of 
every  sort  shall  be  produced  against  you,  from  Jacob  to  Lord 
Coke,  from  the  dictionary  to  the  classic. — In  vain  shall  you 
appeal  fro—,  those  upright  judges,  whom  you  disdain  to  imi- 
tate, to  those  whom  you  have  made  your  example.  With 
one  voice,  they  all  condemn  you. 

"  To  be  taken  with  the  maner  is  where  a  thief,  having 
stolen  any  thing,  is  taken  with  the  same  about  him,  as  it 
were  in  his  hands,  which  is  called  flagrante  delicto.  Such  a 
criminal  is  not  bailable  by  lazv." — Jacob  under  the  word 
Maner. 

*  Blackstone,  ■■■  1  T 


JUNIUS.  139 

M  Those  who  are  taken  with  the  Maner,  are  excluded,  by 
the  statute  of  Westminster,  from  the  benefit  of  a  replevin."— - 
Hawkins.  P.  C.  2.  98. 

"  Of  such  heinous  offences  no  one,  who  is  notoriously- 
guilty,  seems  to  be  bailable  by  the  intent  of  this  statute." — 
D°.  2.  99. 

"  The  common  practice,  and  allowed  general  rule  is,  that 
bail  is  only  then  proper  where  it  stands  indifferent  whether 
the  party  were  guilty  or  innocent." — D°.  D°. 

"  There  is  no  doubt  but  that  the  bailing  of  a  person,  who 
is  not  bailable  by  laxv,  is  punishable  either  at  common  law 
as  a  negligent  escape,  or  as  an  offence  against  the  several 
statutes  relative  to  bail." — D°.  89. 

"  It  cannot  be  doubted  but  that,  neither  the  judges  of  this, 
nor  of  any  other  superior  court  of  justice,  are  strictly  within 
the  purview  of  that  statute,  yet  they  will  always,  in  their 
discretion,  pay  a  due  regard  to  it,  and  not  admit  a  person  to 
bail,  who  is  expressly  declared  by  it  irreplevisable,  xoithout 
some  particular  circumstance  in  his  favour;  and  therefore  it 
seems  difficult  to  find  an  instance,  where  persons,  attainted 
of  felony,  or  notoriously  guilty  of  treason  or  manslaughter, 
Sec.  by  their  own  confession,  or  otherxvise,  have  been  admit- 
ted to  the  benefit  of  bail,  without  some  special  motive  to  the 
court  to  grant  it." — D°.  114. 

"  If  it  appears  that  any  man  hath  injury  or  wrong  by  his 
imprisonment,  we  have  power  to  deliver  and  discharge  him; 
— if  otherwise,  he  is  to  be  remanded  by  us  to  prison  again." — ■ 
LordCh.  J.  Hyde.  State  Trials.  7.115. 

"  The  statute  of  Westminster  was  especially  for  direction 
to  the  Sheriffs  and  others,  but  to  say  courts  of  justice  are 
excluded  from  this  statute,  I  conceive  it  cannot  be." — Attor- 
ney General  Heath,  D°.  132. 

"  The  court,  upon  view  of  the  return,  judge th  of  the  suf- 
ficiency or  insufficiency  of  it.  If  they  think  the  prisoner  in 
law  to  be  bailable,  he  is  committed  to  the  Marshal  and  bail- 
ed; if  not,  he  is  remanded." — Through  that  whole  debate 
the  objection,  on  the  part  of  the  prisoners,  was,  that  no  cause 
of  commitment  was  expressed  in  the  warrant;  but  it  was, 


140  LETTERS  OF 

uniformly  admitted  by  their  counsel  that,  if  the  cause  of  com- 
mitment had  been  expressed  for  treason  or  felony,  the  court 
would  then  have  done  right  in  remanding  them. 

The  Attorney  General  having  urged,  before  a  committee 
of  both  houses,  that,  in  Beckwith's  case  and  others,  the  lords 
of  the  council  sent  a  letter  to  the  court  of  King's  Bench  to 
bail;  it  was  replied  by  the  managers  for  the  House  of  Com- 
mons, that  this  was  of  no  moment,  "  for  that  either  the  pri- 
soner was  bailable  by  the  lazv,  or  not  bailable; — if  bailable  by 
the  law,  then  he  was  to  be  bailed  without  anv  such  letter; — 
if  not  bailable  by  the  law,  then  plainly  the  judges  could  not 
have  bailed  him  upon  the  letter,  without  breach  of  their  oath, 
which  is,  that  they  are  to  do  justice  according  to  the  lazu,  &?c." 
— State  Trials.  7.  175. 

"  So  that,  in  bailing  upon  such  offences  of  the  highest  na- 
ture, a  kind  of  discretion,  rather  than  a  constant  law,  hath 
been  exercised,  when  it  stands  wholly  indifferent  in  the  eye 
of  the  court,  whether  the  prisoner  be  guilty  or  not." — Sel- 
den.  State  Trials.  7.  230.  1. 

"  I  denv  that  a  man  is  always  bailable,  when  imprison- 
ment is  imposed  upon  him  for  custody." — Attorney  General 
Heath,  Z)°.  238. — By  these  quotations  from  the  State  Trials, 
though  otherwise  not  of  authority,  it  appears  plainly  that, 
in  regard  to  bailable  or  not  bailable,  all  parties  agreed  in 
admitting  one  proposition  as  incontrovertible. 

"  In  relation  to  capital  offences  there  are  especially  these 
acts  of  parliament  that  are  the  common  landmarks*  touch- 
ing offences  bailable  or  not  bailable." — Hale  2.  P.  C.  127. 
The  enumeration  includes  the  several  acts  cited  in  this 
paper. 

"  Persons,  taken  with  the  Manouvre,  are  not  bailable,  be- 
cause it  is  fur  turn  manifestum" — Hale  2.  P.  C.  133. 

"  The  writ  of  Habeas  Corpus  is  of  a  high  nature;  for  if 
persons  be  wrongfully  committed,  they  are  to  be  discharged 
upon  this  writ  returned;  or,  if  bailable,  they  are  to  be  baikcl; 
— if  not  bailable,  they  arc  to  be  committed.'*'' — Hale  2.  P.  C. 

'■'  It  has  been  the  study  of  Lord  Mansfield  to  remove  landmarks. 


JUNIUS.  141 

143.  This  doctrine  of  Lord  Chief  Justice  Hale  refers  im- 
mediately to  the  superior  courts  from  whence  the  writ  issues. 
— "  After  the  return  is  filed,  the  court  is  either  to  discharge, 
or  bail,  or  commit  him,  as  the  nature  of  the  cause  requires." 
—Hale  2.  P.  C.  146. 

"  If  bail  be  granted,  otherwise  than  the  law  alloweth,  the 
party  that  alloweth  the  same,  shall  be  fined,  imprisoned, 
render  damages,  or  forfeit  his  place,  as  the  case  shall  re- 
quire."— Selden  by  N.  Bacon.  182. 

"  This  induces  an  absolute  necessity  of  expressing,  upon 
every  commitment,  the  reason,  for  which  it  is  made;  that 
the  court,  upon  a  Habeas  Corpus,  may  examine  into  its  va- 
lidity, and,  according  to  the  circumstances  of  the  case,  may 
discharge,  admit  to  bail,  or  remand  the  prisoner." — Black- 
stone.  3.  133. 

"  Marriot  was  committed  for  forging  indorsements  upon 
bank  bills,  and,  upon  a  Habeas  Corpus,  was  bailed,  because 
the  crime  was  only  a  great  misdemeanor; — for  though  the 
forging  the  bills  be  felony,  yet  forging  the  indorsement  is 
not."— Salkeld.  1.  104. 

"  Appell  de  Mahem,  &c.  ideo  ne  fuit  lesse  a  bailie,  nient 
plus  que  in  appell  de  robbery  ou  murder;  quod  nota,  et  que 
in  robry  et  murder  le  partie  n'est  baillable." — Bro.  Main* 
prise,  67. 

"  The  intendment  of  the  law  in  bails  is,  quod  stat  indijfer- 
enter,  whether  he  be  guilty  or  no;  but,  when  he  is  convict  by 
verdict  or  confession,  then  he  must  be  deemed  in  law  to  be 
guilty  of  the  felony,  and  therefore  not  bailable  at  all. — Coke 
2.  Inst.  188. — 4.  178. 

11  Bail  is  quando  stat  indiff'er  enter,  and  not  when  the  of- 
fence is  open  and  manifest." — 2.  Inst.  189. 

"  In  this  case  non  stat  indiffer enter,  whether  he  be  guilty 
or  no,  being  taken  with  the  Maner,  that  is,  with  the  thing- 
stolen,  as  it  were  in  his  hand." — jD°.  D°. 

"  If  it  appeareth  that  this  imprisonment  be  just  and  law- 
ful, he  shall  be  remanded  to  the  former  gaoler;  but,  if  it  shall 
appear  to  the  court  that  he  was  imprisoned  against  the  law 
of  the  land,  they  ought,  bv  force  of  this  statute,  to  deliver 


142  LETTERS  OF 

him;  if  it  be  doubtful,  and  under  consideration,  he  may  be 
bailed." — 2.  Inst.  55. 

It  is  unnecessary  to  load  the  reader  with  any  farther  quo- 
tations. If  these  authorities  are  not  deemed  sufficient  to 
establish  the  doctrine  maintained  in  this  paper,  it  will  be  in 
vain  to  appeal  to  the  evidence  of  law-books,  or  to  the  opi- 
nions of  judges.  They  are  not  the  authorities  by  which  Lord 
Mansfield  will  abide.  He  assumes  an  arbitrary  power  of 
doing  right;  and,  if  he  does  wrong,  it  lies  only  between  God 
and  his  conscience. 

Now,  my  Lord,  although  I  have  great  faith  in  the  pre- 
ceding argument,  I  will  not  say,  that  every  minute  part  of  it 
is  absolutely  invulnerable.  I  am  too  well  acquainted  with 
the  practice  of  a  certain  court,  directed  by  your  example,  as 
it  is  governed  by  your  authority,  to  think  there  ever  yet  was 
an  argument,  however  conformable  to  law  and  reason,  in 
which  a  cunning,  quibbling  attorney  might  not  discover  a 
flaw.  But,  taking  the  whole  of  it  together,  I  affirm  that  it 
constitutes  a  mass  of  demonstration,  than  which  nothing 
more  complete  or  satisfactory  can  be  offered  to  the  human 
mind.  How  an  evasive,  indirect  reply  will  stand  with  your 
reputation,  or  how  far  it  will  answer  in  point  of  defence  at 
the  bar  of  the  House  of  Lords,  is  worth  your  consideration. 
If,  after  all  that  has  been  said,  it  should  still  be  maintained, 
that  the  court  of  King's  Bench,  in  bailing  felons,  are  ex- 
empted from  all  legal  rules  whatsoever,  and  that  the  judge 
has  no  direction  to  pursue,  but  his  private  affections,  or  mere 
unquestionable  will  and  pleasure,  it  will  follow  plainly,  that 
the  distinction  between  bailable  and  not  bailable,  uniformly 
expressed  by  the  legislature,  current  through  all  our  law- 
books, and  admitted  by  all  our  great  lawyers  without  excep- 
tion, is  in  one  sense  a  nugatory,  in  another  a  pernicious  dis- 
tinction. It  is  nugatory,  as  it  supposes  a  difference  in  the 
bailable  quality  of  offences,  when,  in  effect,  the  distinction 
refers  only  to  the  rank  of  the  magistrate.  It  is  pernicious,  as 
it  implies  a  rule  of  law,  which  yet  the  judge  is  not  bound  to 
>.iv  the  least  regard  to,  and  impresses  an  idea  upon  the  minds 


JUNIUS.  143 

of  the  people,  that  the  judge  is  wiser  and  greater  than  the 
law. 

It  remains  only  to  apply  the  law,  thus  stated,  to  the  fact 
in  question.  By  an  authentic  copy  of  the  mittimus  it  appears 
that  John  Eyre  was  committed  for  felony,  plainly  and  spe- 
cially expressed  in  the  warrant  of   commitment.  He  was 
charged  before  Alderman  Halifax  by  the  oath  of  Thomas 
Fielding,  William  Holder,  William  Payne,  and  William 
Nash,  for  feloniously  stealing  eleven  quires  of  writing-paper, 
value  six  shillings,  the  property  of  Thomas  Beach,  &c. — 
By  the  examinations,  upon  oath,  of  the  four  persons  men- 
tioned in  the  mittimus,  it  was  proved,  that  large  quantities 
of  paper  had  been  missed,  and  that  eleven  quires  (previous- 
ly marked  from  a  suspicion  that  Eyre  was  the  thief)  were 
found  upon  him.  Many  other  quires  of  paper,  marked  in  the 
same  manner,  were  found  at  his  lodgings;  and  after  he  had 
been  sometime  in  Wood-street  Compter,  a  key  was  found  in 
his  room  there,  which  appeared  to  be  a  key  to  the  closet  at 
Guildhall,  from  whence  the  paper  was  stolen.  When  asked 
what  he  had  to  say  in  his  defence,  his  only  answer  was, 
I  hope  you  will  bail  me.  Mr.  Holder,  the  Clerk,  replied, 
That  is  impossible.   There  never  was  an  instance  of  it,  when 
the  stole?!  goods  were  found  upon  the  thief.  The  Lord  Mayor 
was  then  applied  to,  and  refused  to  bail  him. — Of  all  these 
circumstances  it  was  your  duty  to  have  informed  yourself 
minutely.  The  fact  was  remarkable,  and  the  Chief  Magis- 
trate of  the  city  of  London  was  known  to  have  refused  to 
bail  the  offender.  To  justify  your  compliance  with  the  soli- 
citations of  your  three  countrymen,  it  should  be  proved  that 
such  allegations  were  offered  to  you,  in  behalf  of  their  asso- 
ciate, as  honestly  and  bona  fide  reduced  it  to  a  matter  of 
doubt  and  indifference  whether  the  prisoner  was  innocent  or 
guilty — Was  any  thing  offered  by  the  Scotch  triumvirate 
that  tended  to  invalidate  the  positive  charge  made  against 
him  by  four  credible  witnesses  upon  oath? — Was  it  even  in- 
sinuated to  you,  either  by  himself  or  his  bail,  that  no  felony 
was  committed; — or  that  he  was  not  the  felon; — that  the 
stolen  goods  were  not  found  upon  him; — or  that  he  was  only 


144  LETTERS  OF 

the  receiver,  not  knowing  them  to  be  stolen? — Or,  in  short, 
did  they  attempt  to  produce  any  evidence  of  his  insanity? — ■ 
To  all  these  questions,  I  answer  for  you,  without  the  least 
fear  of  contradiction,  positively  NO.  From  the  moment  he 
was  arrested,  he  never  entertained  any  hope  of  acquittal; 
therefore  thought  of  nothing  but  obtaining  bail,  that  he  might 
have  time  to  settle  his  affairs,  convey  his  fortune  into  another 
country,  and  spend  the  remainder  of  his  life  in  comfort  and 
affluence  abroad.  In  this  prudential  scheme  of  future  happi- 
ness, the  Lord  Chief  Justice  of  England  most  readily  and 
heartily  concurred.  At  sight  of  so  much  virtue  in  distress, 
your  natural  benevolence  took  the  alarm.  Such  a  man  as 
Mr.  Eyre,  struggling  with  adversity,  must  always  be  an  in- 
teresting scene  to  Lord  Mansfield. — Or  was  it  that  liberal 
anxiety,  by  which  your  whole  life  has  been  distinguished,  to. 
enlarge  the  liberty  of  the  subject? — My  Lord,  we  did  not 
want  this  new  instance  of  the  liberality  of  your  principles. 
We  already  knew  what  kind  of  subjects  they  were,  for  whose 
liberty  you  were  anxious.  At  all  events,  the  public  are  much 
indebted  to  you  for  fixing  a  price,  at  which  felony  may  be 
eommitted  with  impunity.  You  bound  a  felon,  notoriously 
worth  thirty  thousand  pounds,  in  the  sum  of  three  hundred. 
With  your  natural  turn  to  equity,  and  knowing,  as  you  are, 
in  the  doctrine  of  precedents,  you  undoubtedly  meant  to 
settle  the  proportion  between  the  fortune  of  the  felon,  and 
the  fine,  by  which  he  may  compound  for  his  felony.  The 
ratio  now  upon  record,  and  transmitted  to  posterity  under 
the  auspices  of  Lord  Mansfield,  is  exactly  one  to  a  hun- 
dred.— My  Lord,  without  intending  it,  you  have  laid  a 
cruel  restraint  upon  the  genius  of  your  countrymen.  In  the 
warmest  indulgence  of  their  passions  they  have  an  eye  to 
the  expense,  and  if  their  other  virtues  fail  us,  we  have  a 
resource  in  their  economy. 

By  taking  so  trifling  a  security  from  John  Eyre,  you  in- 
vited and  manifestly  exhorted  him  to  escape.  Although  in 
bailable  cases,  ic  be  usual  to  take  four  securities,  you  left 
him  in  the  custody  of  three  Scotchmen,  whom  he  might  have 
■easily  satisfied  for  conniving  at  his  retreat.  That  he  did  not 


JUNIUS.  145 

make  use  of  the  opportunity  you  industriously  gave  him  nei- 
ther justifies  your  conduct,  nor  can  it  be  any  way  accounted 
for,  but  by  his  excessive  and  monstrous  avarice.  Any  other 
man,  but  this  bosom-friend  of  three  Scotchmen,  would  gladlv 
have  sacrificed  a  few  hundred  pounds,  rather  than  submit  to 
the  infamy  of  pleading  guilty  in  open  court.  It  is  possible 
indeed  that  he  might  have  flattered  himself,  and  not  unrea- 
sonably, with  the  hopes  of  a  pardon.  That  he  would  have 
been  pardoned  seems  more  than  probable,  if  I  had  not  di- 
rected the  public  attention  to  the  leading  step  you  took  in 
favour  of  him.  In  the  present  gentle  reign,  we  well  know 
what  use  has  been  made  of  the  lenity  of  the  court  and  of  the 
mercy  of  the  crown.  The  Lord  Chief  Justice  of  England 
accepts  of  the  hundredth  part  of  the  property  of  a  felon  taken 
in  the  fact,  as  a  recognizance  for  his  appearance.  Your  bro- 
ther Smythe  browbeats  a  jury,  and  forces  them  to  alter  their 
verdict,  by  which  they  had  found  a  Scotch  Serjeant  guilty  of 
murder;  and  though  the  Kennedys  were  convicted  of  a 
most  deliberate  and  atrocious  murder,  they  still  had  a  claim 
to  the  royal  mercy*. — They  were  saved  by  the  chastity  of 

•  The  case  of  the  Kennedys  is  stated  in  note  to  p.  247  of  Volume  I. — 
That  of  John  Taylor,  is  as  follows:  He  was  a  serjeant  in  the  first,  or  royal 
Scots  regiment  of  foot,  and  was  tried  at  the  Guildford  summer  assizes,  in 
the  year  1770,  for  the  murder  of  James  Smith,  the  master  of  the  Wheat- 
sheaf,  near  Westminster  bridge  It  appeared  upon  the  trial,  that  the  de- 
ceased had  uttered  some  aggravating  expressions  against  the  Scots;  in 
consequence  of  which,  the  prisoner  being  suddenly  thrown  off  his  guard, 
drew  his  sword  and  stabbed  him.  The  jury,  after  deliberating  a  conside- 
rable time,  brought  in  a  verdict  of  guilty,  on  which  Mr.  Baron  Smythe  ex- 
pressed his  surprise,  adding  that  he  had  told  them  it  was  only  manslaugh- 
ter, and  desired  that  a  special  verdict  should  be  drawn  up,  which  the  intimi- 
dated jury  signed.  On  this  Mr.  Jasper  Smith,  a  near  relation  of  the  deceased, 
addressed  the  court  in  the  following  words: — "  My  Lord,  I  am  the  nearest  of 
kin  to  the  unfortunate  man  who  was  murdered.  I  always  thought,  my  Lord, 
when  a  verdict  was  once  given,  it  was  unalterable,  but  by  the  present  me- 
thod of  proceeding  there  need  not  have  been  any  jury  at  all.  It  is  as  plain 
a  murder  as  can  be,  and  I  am  persuaded  your  Lordship  thinks  so."  To  this 
speech  no  reply  was  given.  The  decision  of  the  judge,  in  the  above  case, 
occasioned  some  severe  animadversions  on  his  conduct,  and  several  que- 
ries were  addressed  to  him  upon  the  subject,  which  were  repeatedly  in- 
serted in  the  Public  Advertiser,  so  as  to  become  extremely  conspicuous. 
This  account  however,  extracted  from  that  paper,  does  not  seem  to  con- 

VOL.  II.  T  tain 


146  LETTERS  OF 

their  connections. — They  had  a  sister; — yet  it  was  not  her 
beauty,  but  the  pliancy  of  her  virtue  that  recommended  her 
to  the  King* — The  holy  author  of  our  religion  was  seen  in 
the  company  of  sinners;  but  it  was  his  gracious  purpose  to 
convert  them  from  their  sins.  Another  man,  who  in  the  cere- 
monies of  our  faith  might  give  lessons  to  the  great  enemy  of 
it,  upon  different  principles  keeps  much  the  same  company. 
He  advertises  for  patients,  collects  all  the  diseases  of  the 
heart,  and  turns  a  royal  palace  into  an  hospital  for  incura- 
bles.— A  man  of  honour  has  no  ticket  of  admission  at  St. 
James's.  They  receive  him,  like  a  virgin  at  the  Magdalen; — 
Go  thou  and  do  likewise. 

My  charge  against  you  is  now  made  good.  I  shall  how- 
ever be  ready  to  answer  or  to  submit  to  fair  objections*.  If, 

tain  the  whole  train  of  the  circumstances  which  preceded  this  unfortunate 
catastrophe,  for  when  Taylor  was  brought  to  the  bar  of  the  King's  Bench, 
February  8, 1771,  Lord  Mansfield,  who  read  the  minutes  of  the  evidence  as 
taken  down  by  Baron  Smyth  e,  who  presided  at  the  trial,  observed,  that  it  ap- 
peared that  the  prisoner  had  been  three  times  assaulted  by  Smith,  the  de- 
ceased, collared  and  violently  thrown  backward  upon  a  bench  without  any 
provocation,  turned  out  of  the  house,  and  called  by  the  most  opprobrious 
names;  and  farther,  that  when  out  in  the  street,  he  was  pursued  and  at- 
tacked by  two  men,  before  he  offered  to  draw  his  sword;  from  which  cir- 
cumstances the  court  was  unanimously  of  opinion  that  he  had  only  been 
guilty  of  manslaughter,  and  sentenced  him  to  be  burnt  in  the  hand,  which 
was  performed  accordingly,  behind  the  bar.  Mr.  Dunning  also,  a  strong 
oppositionist,  defended  Mr.  Baron  Smythe's  conduct  in  respect  to  the  trial 
alluded  to  by  Junius,  in  a  speech  spoken  on  a  motion  made  by  Mr.  Ser- 
jeant Glynn,  December  6,  1770,  "for  an  inquiry  into  the  administration  of 
criminal  justice,  and  the  proceedings  of  the  judges  in  Westminster-hall, 
particularly  in  cases  relating  to  the  liberty  of  the  press  and  the  constitu- 
tional power  and  duty  of  juries." — Mr.  Dunning's  words  are  as  follow: — 
"  It  is  not  that  the  characters  of  the  judges  are  not  traduced  by  ground- 
less accusations,  and  scandalous  aspersions.  These  are  grievances  which 
every  one  sees,  and  every  one  laments.  Judge  Smythe,  for  example,  has,  to 
my  knowledge,  been  very  injuriously  treated.  His  conduct  in  trying  the 
Scotch  serjeant  at  Guildford,  for  which  he  has  been  so  much  abused  in 
print,  and  now  arraigned  in  Parliament,  was,  in  my  opinion,  very  fair  and 
honourable.  I  was  consulted  on  the  affair  as  an  advocate,  and  I  must  say 
that  I  perfecth^coincided  with  him  in  sentiment.  Had  I  been  in  his  place, 
I  must  have  fallen  under  the  same  odium;  for  my  conscience  would  not 
have  allowed  me  to  use  any  other  language  but  that  of  Baron  Sinythe." — 
Edit. 
*  See  Miscellaneous  Letter,  No.  cvi.  in  which  Junius  defends  the 

present 


JUNIUS.  147 

whenever  this  matter  shall  be  agitated,  you  suffer  the  doors 
of  the  House  of  Lords  to  be  shut,  I  now  protest,  that  I  shajl 
consider  you  as  having  made  no  reply.  From  that  moment, 
in  the  opinion  of  the  world,  you  will  stand  self-convicted. 
Whether  your  reply  be  quibbling  and  evasive,  or  liberal  and 
in  point,  will  be  matter  for  the  judgment  of  your  peers; — 
but  if,  when  every  possible  idea  of  disrespect  to  that  noble 
house,  (in  whose  honour  and  justice  the  nation  implicitly 
confides)  is  here  most  solemnly  disclaimed,  you  should  en- 
deavour to  represent  this  charge  as  a  contempt  of  their  au- 
thority, and  move  their  Lordships  to  censure  the  publisher 
of  this  paper,  I  then  affirm  that  you  support  injustice  by  vio- 
lence, that  you  are  guilty  of  a  heinous  aggravation  of  your 
offence,  and  that  you  contribute  your  utmost  influence  to 
promote,  on  the  part  of  the  highest  court  of  judicature,  a 
positive  denial  of  justice  to  the  nation. 

JUNIUS. 


LETTER  LXIX. 

TO  THE  RIGHT  HONOURABLE  LORD  CAMDEN*. 
My  Lord, 

I  turn  with  pleasure,  from  that  barren  waste,  in  which  no 
salutary  plant  takes  root,  no  verdure  quickens,  to  a  character 
fertile,  as  I  willingly  believe,  in  every  great  and  good  quali- 
fication. I  call  upon  you,  in  the  name  of  the  English  nation, 
to  stand  forth  in  defence  of  the  laws  of  your  country,  and  to 
exert,  in  the  cause  of  truth  and  justice,  those  great  abilities, 
with  which  you  were  entrusted  for  the  benefit  of  mankind. 
To  ascertain  the  facts,  set  forth  in  the  preceding  paper,  it 
may  be  necessary  to  call  the  persons,  mentioned  in  the  mitti~ 
mus,  to  the  bar  of  the  House  of  Lordsf.  If  a  motion  for 

present  Letter  against  several  attacks  which  had  been  made  upon  it  in  the 
Public  Advertiser.  Edit. 

*  This  Letter  followed  the  preceding  in  the  Public  Advertiser  of  Janu- 
ary 21, 1772. 

f  In  the  case  of  Lord  Mansfield's  having  bailed  Eyre,  Lord  Camden 
had  openly  expressed  his  opinion  that  ths  bail  was  illegal,  and  had  given 
reason  to  expect  that  be  would  make  it  the  subject  of  a  parliamentary  en- 
quiry 


148  LETTERS  OF 

that  purpose  should  be  rejected,  we  shall  know  what  to  think 
of  Lord  Mansfield's  innocence.  The  legal  argument  is  sub- 
mitted to  your  Lordship's  judgment.  After  the  noble  stand 
you  made  against  Lord  Mansfield  upon  the  question  of  libel, 
we  did  expect  that  you  would  not  have  suffered  that  matter 
to  have  remained  undetermined.  But  it  was  said  that  Lord 
Chief  Justice  Wilmot  had  been  prevailed  upon  to  vouch  for 
an  opinion  of  the  late  Judge  Yates,  which  was  supposed  to 
make  against  you;  and  we  admit  of  the  excuse.  When  such 
detestable  arts  are  employed  to  prejudge  a  question  of  right,  S 
it  might  have  been  imprudent,  at  that  time,  to  have  brought 
it  to  a  decision.  In  the  present  instance  you  will  have  no 
such  opposition  to  contend  with.  If  there  be  a  judge,  or  a 
lawyer  of  any  note  in  Westminster-hall,  who  shall  be  daring 
enough  to  affirm  that,  according  to  the  true  intendment  of 
the  laws  of  England,  a  felon,  taken  with  the  Maner,  in  fla- 
granti delicto,  is  bailable;  or  that  the  discretion  of  an  English 
judge  is  merely  arbitrary,  and  not  governed  by  rules  of  law, 
— I  should  be  glad  to  be  acquainted  with  him.  Whoever  he 
be,  I  will  take  care  that  he  shall  not  give  you  much  trouble. 
Your  Lordship's  character  assures  me  that  you  will  assume 
that  principal  part,  which  belongs  to  you,  in  supporting  the 
laws  of  England,  against  a  wicked  judge,  who  makes  it  the 
occupation  of  his  life,  to  misinterpret  and  pervert  them.  If 
you  decline  this  honourable  office,  I  fear  it  will  be  said  that, 
for  some  months  past,  you  have  kept  too  much  company 
with  the  Duke  of  Grafton.  When  the  contest  turns  upon 
the  interpretation  of  the  laws,  you  cannot,  without  a  formal 
surrender  of  all  your  reputation,  yield  the  post  of  honour 
even  to  Lord  Chatham.  Considering  the  situation  and  abili- 
ties of  Lord  Mansfield,  I  do  not  scruple  to  affirm,  with  the 
most  solemn  appeal  to  God  for  my  sincerity,  that,  in  my 
judgment,  he  is  the  very  worst  and  most  dangerous  man  in 
the  kingdom.  Thus  far  I  have  done  my  duty  in  endeavour- 
ing to  bring  him  to  punishment.  But  mine  is  an  inferior, 

quiryou  the  commencement  of  the  ensuing  session.  Junius  refers  to  this 
generally  conceived  pledge,  and  strives,  (though  the  effort  was  in  vain)  to 
induce  his  Lordship  to  redeem  it.  Edit. 


JUNIUS.  149 

ministerial  office  in  the  temple  of  justice. — I  have  bound  the 
victim,  and  dragged  him  to  the  altar. 

JUNIUS. 


The  Reverend  Mr.  John  Home  having,  with  his  usual 
veracity  and  honest  industry,  circulated  a  report  that  Junius, 
in  a  letter  to  the  Supporters  of  the  Bill  of  Rights,  had  warmly 
declared  himself  in  favour  of  long  parliaments  and  rotten 
boroughs,  it  is  thought  necessary  to  submit  to  the  public  the 
following  extract  from  his  letter  to  John  Wilkes,  Esq.*  dated 
the  7th  of  September,  1771,  and  laid  before  the  society  on 
the  24th  of  the  same  month. 

'*  With  regard  to  the  several  articles,  taken  separately,  I 
own  I  am  concerned  to  see  that  the  great  condition,  which 
ought  to  be  the  sine  qua  non  of  parliamentary  qualification, — 
which  ought  to  be  the  basis  (as  it  assuredly  will  be  the  only 
support)  of  every  barrier  raised  in  defence  of  the  constitu- 
tion, I  mean  a  declaration  upon  oath  to  shorten  the  duration 
of  parliaments,  is  reduced  to  the  fourth  rank  in  the  esteem 
of  the  society;  and,  even  in  that  place,  far  from  being  insist- 
ed on  with  firmness  and  vehemence,  seems  to  have  been  par- 
ticularly slighted  in  the  expression.— You  shall  endeavour  to 
restore  annual  parliaments! — Are  these  the  terms,  which 
men,  who  are  in  earnest,  make  use  of,  when  the  salus  reipub- 
licce   is   at   stake? — I    expected   other  language    from    Mr. 
Wilkes. — Besides  my  objection  in  point  of  form,  I  disap- 
prove highly  of  the  meaning  of  the  fourth  article  as  it  stands. 
Whenever  the  question  shall  be  seriously  agitated,  I  will  en- 
deavour (and  if  I  live  will  assuredly  attempt  it)  to  convince 
the  English  nation,  by  arguments  to  my  understanding  unan- 
swerable, that  they  ought  to  insist  upon  a  triennial,  and 

banish  the  idea  of  an  annual  parliament 

I  am  convinced  that,  if  shortening  the  duration  of  parlia- 
ments (which  in  effect  is  keeping  the  representative  under 
the  rod  of  the  constituent)  be  not  made  the  basis  of  our  new 
parliamentary  jurisprudence,  other  checks  or  improvements 

*  This  letter  is  given  in  the  private  correspondence  between  Junius 
*nd  Mr.  Wilkes,  which  will  be  found  in  Vol.  I.  of  this  work.  Edit. 


150  LETTERS  OF 

signify  nothing.  On  the  contrary,  if  this  be  made  the  founda- 
tion, other  measures  may  come  in  aid,  and,  as  auxiliaries,  be 
of  considerable  advantage.  Lord  Chatham's  project,  for  in- 
stance, of  increasing  the  number  of  knights  of  shires,  appears 

to  me  admirable As  to  cutting  away  the  rotten 

boroughs,  I  am  as  much  offended  as  any  man  at  seeing  so 
many  of  them  under  the  direct  influence  of  the  crown,  or  at 
the  disposal  of  private  persons.  Yet,  I  own,  I  have  both 
doubts  and  apprehensions,  in  regard  to  the  remedy  you  pro- 
pose. I  shall  be  charged  perhaps  with  an  unusual  want  of 
political  intrepidity,  when  I  honestly  confess  to  you,  that  I 
am  startled  at  the  idea  of  so  extensive  an  amputation. — In 
the  first  place,  I  question  the  power,  de  jure,  of  the  legisla- 
ture to  disfranchise  a  number  of  boroughs,  upon  the  general 
ground  of  improving  the  constitution.  There  cannot  be  a 
doctrine  more  fatal  to  the  liberty  and  property  we  are  con- 
tending for,  than  that,  which  confounds  the  idea  of  a  supreme 
and  an  arbitrary  legislature.  I  need  not  point  out  to  you  the 
fatal  purposes,  to  which  it  has  been,  and  may  be  applied.  If 
we  are  sincere  in  the  political  creed  we  profess,  there  are 
many  things,  which  we  ought  to  affirm,  cannot  be  done  by 
King,  Lords,  and  Commons.  Among  these  I  reckon  the  dis- 
franchising of  boroughs  with  a  general  view  of  improvement. 
I  consider  it  as  equivalent  to  robbing  the  parties  concerned 
of  their  freehold,  of  their  birthright.  I  say  that,  although 
this  birthright  may  be  forfeited,  or  the  exercise  of  it  sus- 
pended in  particular  cases,  it  cannot  be  taken  away,  by  a 
general  law,  for  any  real  or  pretended  purpose  of  improving 
the  constitution.  Supposing  the  attempt  made,  I  am  persuad- 
ed you  cannot  mean  that  either  King  or  Lords  should  take 
an  active  part  in  it.  A  bill,  which  only  touches  the  repre- 
sentation of  the  people,  must  originate  in  the  House  of  Com- 
mons. In  the  formation  and  mode  of  passing  it,  the  exclu- 
sive right  of  the  Commons  must  be  asserted  as  scrupulously, 
as  in  the  case  of  a  money-bill.  Now,  Sir,  I  should  be  glad 
to  know  by  what  kind  of  reasoning  it  can  be  proved,  that 
there  is  a  power  vested  in  the  representative  to  destroy  his 
immediate  constituent.  From  whence  could  he  possibly  de- 


JUNIUS.  151 

rive  it?  A  courtier,  I  know,  will  be  ready  to  maintain  the 
affirmative.  The  doctrine  suits  him  exactly,  because  it  gives 
an  unlimited  operation  to  the  influence  of  the  crown.  But 
we,  Mr.  Wilkes,  ought  to  hold  a  different  language.  It  is 
no  answer  to  me  to  say,  that  the  bill  when  it  passes  the  House 
of  Commons,  is  the  act  of  the  majority,  and  not  the  repre- 
sentatives of  the  particular  boroughs  concerned.  If  the  ma- 
jority can  disfranchise  ten  boroughs,  why  not  twenty,  why 
not  the  whole  kingdom?  Why  should  not  they  make  their 
own  seats  in  parliament  for  life? — When  the  septennial  act 
passed,  the  legislature  did  what,  apparently  and  palpably, 
they  had  no  power  to  do;  but  they  did  more  than  people  in 
general  were  aware  of:  they,  in  effect,  disfranchised  the 
whole  kingdom  for  four  years. 

"  For  argument's  sake,  I  will  now  suppose,  that  the  ex- 
pediency of  the  measure,  and  the  power  of  parliament  are 
unquestionable.  Still  you  will  find  an  insurmountable  diffi- 
culty in  the  execution.  When  all  your  instruments  of  ampu- 
tation are  prepared,  when  the  unhappy  patient  lies  bound  at 
your  feet,  without  the  possibility  of  resistance,  by  what  in- 
falliable  rule  will  you  direct  the  operation? — When  you  pro- 
pose to  cut  away  the  rotten  parts,  can  you  tell  us  what  parts 
are  perfectly  sound? — Are  there  any  certain  limits,  in  factor 
theory,  to  inform  you  at  what  point  you  must  stop,  at  what 
point  the  mortification  ends?  To  a  man  so  capable  of  observa- 
tion and  reflection  as  you  are,  it  is  unnecessary  to  say  all  that 
might  be  said  upon  the  subject.  Besides  that  I  approve  highly 
of  Lord  Chatham's  idea  of  infusing  a  portion  of  new  health 
into  the  constitution  to  enable  it  to  bear  its  infirmities,  (a  bril- 
liant expression,  and  full  of  intrinsic  wisdom)  other  reasons 
concur  in  persuading  me  to  adopt  it.  I  have  no  objection,"  &c. 

The  man,  who  fairly  and  completely  answers  this  argu- 
ment, shall  have  my  thanks  and  my  applause.  My  heart  is 
already  with  him. — I  am  ready  to  be  converted. — I  admire 
his  morality,  and  would  gladly  subscribe  to  the  articles  of  his 
faith. — Grateful,  as  I  am,  to  the  good  being,  whose  bounty 
has  imparted  to  me  this  reasoning  intellect,  whatever  it  is,  I 
hold  myself  proportionably  indebted  to  him,  from  whose  en- 


152  LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS. 

lightened  understanding  another  ray  of  knowledge  commu- 
nicates to  mine.  But  neither  should  I  think  the  most  exalted 
faculties  of  the  human  mind,  a  gift  worthy  of  the  divinity: 
nor  any  assistance,  in  the  improvement  of  them,  a  subject  of 
gratitude  to  my  fellow  creature,  if  I  were  not  satisfied,  that 
really  to  inform  the  understanding  corrects  and  enlarges  the 
heart. 

JUNIUS. 


y„,  .//„,,/,,,,,.■  /„,&,■,/,„,,.,,/  /,,„//.„,.„   a/f"  //■',/,..>  /i,n .  /..h   „>,/>//</,../,>.•//*,.  r/////,.   ,    ///.././A. 


A 


fvi  Jo*-  ^/J?  ft-zt  ftrty  6i '- 


j^LKtL 


fofr'K- 


fa 


a  \ 


* 


Id/ml.'  ^-^f-^- 


< 

- 


■ 


<^-«^y 


I  a^-tc-rlt' 


■-' 


</ 


,tru*__ 


■i 

i 


<^0    Hr-<ru^  V-taut 


l'/,it,\\\i;./\\\ 


<Ltu,  ■  _  fL<nv 


-U'  ni    1  u~ti 


*<  /t   f  «„'. 


^".  •yuk  /4  ..^^^  L   (Ut^oL,    id  HjU 


0 

1°  ■      CUXJH.) 


MISCELLANEOUS  LETTERS 


OF 


JUNIUS. 


Vol.  II.  U 


MISCELLANEOUS  LETTERS 

or 

JUNIUS. 


LETTER  I. 

FOR  THE  PUBLIC  ADVERTISER. 

28  April,  1767. 
Dictatura,  quam  in  summis  reifiublicm  angustiis  accefieraty  fier 
fiacem  continuata,  libertatem  fregit;  donee  ilium  conversus  in. 
rabiem  fio/iuluSf  et  dii  ultores  de  saxo  Tarfieio  dejecerunt. 

LlVY. 

1  HE  bravest  and  freest  nations  have  sometimes  submit- 
ted to  a  temporary  surrender  of  their  liberties,  in  order  to 
establish  them  forever.  At  a  crisis  of  public  calamity  or  dan- 
ger, the  prudence  of  the  state  placed  a  confidence  in  the  vir- 
tue of  some  distinguished  citizen,  and  gave  him  power  suf- 
ficient to  preserve  or  to  oppress  his  country.  Such  was  the 
Roman  dictator,  and  while  his  office  was  confined  to  a  short 
period,  and  only  applied  as  a  remedy  to  the  disasters  of  an 
unsuccessful  war,  it  was  usually  attended  with  the  most  im- 
portant advantages,  and  left  no  dangerous  precedent  behind. 
The  dictator  finding  employment  for  all  his  activity  in  repul- 
sing a  foreign  invasion,  had  but  little  time  to  contrive  the 
ruin  of  his  own  country,  and  his  ambition  was  nobly  satisfied 
by  the  honour  of  a  triumph,  and  the  applause  of  his  fellow 
citizens.  But  as  soon  as  this  wise  institution  was  corrupted, 
when  that  unlimited  trust  of  power,  which  should  have  been 
reserved  for  conjunctures  of  more  than  ordinary  difficulty 
and  hazard,  was  without  necessity  committed  to  one  man's 
uncertain  moderation,  what  consequence  could  be  expected 


156  MISCELLANEOUS 

but  that  the  people  should  pay  the  dearest  price  for  their 
simplicity,  nor  ever  resume  those  rights,  which  they  could 
vainly  imagine  were  more  secure  in  the  hands  of  a  single 
man,  than  where  the  laws  and  constitution  had  placed  them. 
Without  any  uncommon  depravity  of  mind,  a  man  so  trusted 
might  lose  all  ideas  of  public  principle  or  gratitude,  and  not 
unreasonably  exert  himself  to  perpetuate  a  power,  which  he 
saw  his  fellow-citizens  weak  and  abject  enough  to  surrender 
to  him.  But  if,  instead  of  a  man  of  a  common  mixed  cha- 
racter, whose  vices  might  be  redeemed  by  some  appearance 
of  virtue  and  generosity,  it  should  have  unfortunately  hap- 
pened that  a  nation  had  placed  all  their  confidence  in  a  man 
purely  and  perfectly  bad;  if  a  great  and  good  prince,  by  some 
fatal  delusion,  had  made  choice  of  such  a  man  for  his  first 
minister,  and  had  delegated  all  his  authority  to  him,  what 
security  would  that  nation  have  for  its  freedom,  or  that  prince 
for  his  crown?  The  history  of  every  nation,  that  once  had  a 
claim  to  liberty,  will  tell  us  what  would  be  the  progress 
of  such  a  traitor,  and  what  the  probable  event  of  his  crimes*. 
Let  us  suppose  him  arrived  at  that  moment,  at  which  he 
might  see  himsc4f  within  reach  of  the  great  object,  to  which 
all  the  artifices,  the  intrigues,  the  hypocrisy  and  the  impu- 
dence of  his  past  life  were  directed.  On  the  point  of  having 
the  whole  power  of  the  crown  committed  to  him,  what  would 
be  his  conduct?  an  affectation  of  prostrate  humility  in  the 
closet,  but  a  lordly  dictation  of  terms  to  the  people,  by  whose 
interest  he  had  been  supported,  by  whose  fortunes  he  had 
subsisted.  Has  he  a  brother?  that  brother  nrnst  be  sacrificedf. 

*  This  severe  invective  is  aimed  against  the  late  Lord  Chatham,  for- 
merly the  right  honourable  W.  Pitt.  The  reader,  by  a  perusal  of  the  pre- 
ceding letters,  is  already  acquainted  with  the  utter  aversion  which  J  unius 
at  first  felt  for  this  nobleman,  on  various  political  accounts,  and  especially 
on  the  subject  of  the  American  dispute.  His  aversion,  however,  softened 
as  their  political  views  approximated,  and  was  at  length  converted  into  ap- 
probation and  eulogy.  See  for  a  further  explanation,  the  note  to  Miscel- 
laneous Letter,  No.  xu.  p.  197  of  this  volume.  Edit. 

f  Lord  Temple,  brother-in-law  to  Lord  Chatham.  They  resigned  their 
respective  offices,  the  former  of  Privy  Seal,  and  the  latter  of  principal 
Secretary  of  state,  in  October  1765.  Lord  Temple  was  succeeded  by  the 

D.uke 


4 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS'.  157 

Has  he  a  rancorous  enemy?  that  enemy  must  be  promoted^. 
Have  years  of  his  life  been  spent  in  declaiming  against  the 
pernicious  influence  of  a  favourite?  That  favourite  must  be 
feken  to  his  bosom,  and  made  the  only  partner  of  his  powerf . 
But  it  is  in  the  natural  course  of  things  that  a  despotic  pow- 
er, which  of  itself  violates  every  principle  of  a  free  constitu- 
tion, should  be  acquired  by  means,  which  equally  violate 

Duke  of  Bedford;  and  upon  his  resignation  by  Lord  Chatham  himself: 
during  which  administration  Lord  Temple  took  no  part  whatever. 

The  following  letter  from  this  nobleman  before  his  promotion  to  the 
peerage  explains  the  motives  of  their  joint  resignation;  it  was  addressed 
to  a  friend  in  the  city: — 

"  Dear  Sir, 
"  Finding  to  my  great  surprise,  that  the  cause  and  manner  of  my  re- 
signing the  seals,  is  grossly  misrepresented  in  the  city,  as  well  as  that  the 
most  gracious  and  spontaneous  marks  of  his  Majesty's  approbation  of  my 
services,  which  marks  followed  my  resignation,  have  been  infamously  tra- 
duced as  a  bargain  for  my  forsaking  the  public,  I  am  under  a  necessity  of 
declaring  the  truth  of  both  these  facts,  in  a  manner  which  I  am  sure  no 
gentleman  will  contradict.  A  difference  of  opinion  with  regard  to  mea- 
sures to  be  taken  against  Spain,  of  the  highest  importance  to  the  honour 
of  the  crown,  and  to  the  most  essential  national  interests,  and  this  founded 
on  what  Spain  had  already  done,  not  on  what  that  court  may  farther  in- 
tend to  do,  was  the  cause  of  my  resigning  the  seals.  Lord  Temple  and  I 
submitted  in  writing,  and  signed  by  us,  our  most  humble  sentiments  to  his 
Majesty,  which  being  overruled  by  the  united  opinion  of  all  the  rest  of  the 
King's  servants,  I  resigned  the  seals  on  Monday  the  5th  of  this  month,  in 
order  to  not  remain  responsible  for  measures  which  I  was  no  longer  allow- 
ed to  guide.  Most  gracious  public  marks  of  his  Majesty's  approbation  of 
my  services  followed  my  resignation:  they  are  unmerited  and  unsolicited, 
and  I  shall  ever  be  proud  to  have  received  them  from  the  best  of  Sovereigns. 
"  I  will  now  only  add,  my  dear  Sir,  that  I  have  explained  these  matters 
only  for  the  honour  of  truth,  not  in  any  view  to  court  return  of  confidence 
from  any  man,  who  with  a  credulity  as  weak  as  it  is  injurious,  has  thought 
fit  hastily  to  withdraw  his  good  opinion,  from  one  who  has  served  his 
country  with  fidelity  and  success,  and  who  justly  reveres  the  upright  and 
candid  judgment  of  it;  little  solicitous  about  the  censures  of  the  capricious 
and  the  ungenerous:  accept  my  sincerest  acknowledgments  for  all  your 
kind  friendship,  and  believe  me  ever  with  truth  and  esteem, 
"  My  dear  Sir, 
^  "  Your  faithful  friend, 

&f     "Oct.  14,  l£tft|  "W.Pitt."     Edit 

*  The  Duke  of  Bedford.  Edit.  f  Lord  Bute.  Edit. 


158  MISCELLANEOUS 

every  principle  of  honour  and  morality.  The  office  of  a  grand 
Vizir  is  inconsistent  with  a  limited  monarchy,  and  can  never 
subsist  long  but  by  its  destruction.  The  same  measures,  by 
which  an  abandoned  profligate  is  advanced  to  power,  must 
be  observed  to  maintain  him  in  it.  The  principal  nobility, 
who  might  disdain  to  submit  to  the  upstart  insolence  of  a 
dictator,  must  be  removed  from  every  post  of  honour  and 
authority;  all  public  employments  must  be  filled  with  a  des- 
picable set  of  creatures,  who  having  neither  experience  nor 
capacity,  nor  any  weight  or  respect  in  their  own  persons, 
will  necessarily  derive  all  their  little  busy  importance  from 
him.  As  the  absolute  destruction  of  the  constitution  of  his 
country  would  be  his  great  object,  to  be  consistent  with  that 
design  he  must  exert  himself  to  weaken  and  impoverish 
every  rank  and  order  of  the  community,  which  by  the  nature 
of  their  property,  and  the  degree  of  their  wealth,  might  have 
a  particular  interest  in  the  support  of  the  established  go- 
vernment, as  well  as  power  to  oppose  any  treacherous  at- 
tempts against  it.  The  landed  estate  must  be  oppressed;  the 
rights  of  the  merchant  must  be  arbitrarily  invaded,  and  his 
property  forced  from  him  by  main  force,  without  even  the 
form  of  a  legal  proceeding.  It  will  assist  him  much,  if  he  can 
contribute  to  the  destruction  of  the  poor  by  continuing  the 
most  burthensome  taxes  upon  the  main  articles  of  their  sub- 
sistence. He  must  also  take  advantage  of  any  favourable 
conjuncture  to  try  how  far  the  nation  will  bear  to  see  the 
established  laws  suspended  by  proclamation,  and  upon  such 
occasions  he  must  not  be  without  an  apostate  lawyer,  weak 
enough  to  sacrifice  his  own  character,  and  base  enough  to 
betray  the  laws  of  his  country*.  X 

These  are  but  a  few  of  the  pernicious  practices  by  which 
a  traitor  may  be  known,  by  which  a  free  people  may  be  en- 
slaved. But  the  masterpiece  of  his  treachery,  and  the  surest 
of  answering  all  his  purposes  would  be,  if  possible,  to  foment 
such  discord  between  the  mother-country  and  her  colonies, 

*  This  subject  is  fully  explained  in  many  parts  of  the  Inters  of  Junius,   A 
and  in  the  notes  now  subjoined  to  them.  The  character  alluded  to  is  Earl 
7^  Camden,  at  that  time  Lord  Chancellor.  Edit. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  L59. 

as  may  leave  them  both  an  easier  prey  to  his  own  dark  ma- 
chinations. With  this  patriotic  view  he  will  be  ready  to  de- 
clare himself  the  patron  of  sedition,  and  a  zealous  advocate 
for  rebellion.  His  doctrines  will  correspond  with  the  pro- 
ceedings of  the  people  he  protects,  and  if  by  his  assistance 
they  can  obtain  a  victory  over  the  supreme  legislature  of  the 
empire,  he  will  consider  that  victory  as  an  important  step 
towards  the  advancement  of  his  main  design*. 

Such.  Sir,  in  any  free  state,  would  probably  be  the  con- 
duct and  character  of  a  man  unnecessarily  trusted  with  ex- 
orbitant power.  He  must  either  succeed  in  establishing  a 
tyranny  or  perish.  I  cannot  without  horror  suppose  it  possi- 
ble that  this  our  native  country  should  ever  be  at  the  mercy 
of  so  black  a  villain.  But  if  the  case  should  happen  hereafter, 
I  hope  the  British  people  will  not  be  so  abandoned  by  Pro- 
vidence, as  not  to  open  their  eyes  time  enough  to  save  them- 
selves from  destruction;  and  though  we  have  no  Tarpeian 
rock  for  the  immediate  punishment  of  treason,  yet  we  have 
impeachments,  and  a  gibbet  is  not  too  honourable  a  situation 
for  the  carcase  of  a  traitor. 

POPLICOLA. 


LETTER  II. 


TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC  ADVERTISER. 

Sik,  28  May,  1767. 

Your  correspondent  C.  D.f  professes  to  undeceive  the 
public  with  respect  to  some  reflections  thrown  out  upon  the 
Earl  of  Chatham  in  Mr.  Wilkes's  letter  to  the  Duke  of  Graf- 

*  Lord  Chatham,  then  Mr.  Pitt,  opposed  Mr.  George  Grenville's  Stamp 
Act,  and  denied  the  right  of  the  parliament  of  Great  Britain  to  legislate 
for  America.  Edit. 

f  Poplicola,  the  writer  of  this  reply,  by  some  means  or  other  mistook  the 
real  signature,  which  instead  of  being  CD.  was  W.  D.  The  letter  is  dated 
from  Clifton,  and  is  obviously  from  the  pen  of  Sir  W.  Draper;  affording  a 
singular  proof  that  the  Knight  of  the  Bath  and  Junius  were  political  op- 
ponents under  signatures  mutually  unknown,  and  so  far  back  as  May  1767. 
The  subject  of  Sir  William's  observations  was  a  defence  of  Lord  Chat- 
ham, against  some  strong  observations  made  upon  his  character  by  Mr. 

Wilkes, 


160  MISCELLANEOUS 

ton.  Without  undertaking  the  defence  of  that  gentleman's 
conduct,  or  character,  permit  me  to  observe  that  he  was  the 
instrument,  and  an  useful  one  to  the  party,  therefore  should 
not  have  been  sacrificed  by  it.  He  served  them  perhaps  with 

Wilkes,  in  a  letter  addressed  to  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  relative  to  the  illegal 
proceedings  of  the  Earl  of  Halifax.  The  letter  is  dated  Paris,  Dec.  12, 
1763,  and  the  part  chiefly  adverted  to  is  the  following?1 — 

"  I  believe  that  the  flinty  heart  of  Lord  Chatham  has  known  the  sweets 
of  private  friendship,  and  the  fine  feelings  of  humanity,  as  little  as  even 
Lord  Mansfield.  They  are  both  fbrmed  to  be  admired  not  beloved.  A 
proud,  insolent,  overbearing,  ambitious  man  is  always  full  of  the  ideas  of 
his  own  importance,  and  vainly  imagines  himself  superior  to  the  equality 
necessary  among  real  friends,  in  all  the  moments  of  true  enjoyment. 
Friendship  is  too  pure  a  pleasure  for  a  mind  cankered  with  ambition,  or 
the  lust  of  power  and  grandeur.  Lord  Chatham  declared  in  parliament 
the  strongest  attachment  to  Lord  Temple,  one  of  the  greatest  characters 
our  country  could  ever  boast,  and  said  he  <would  live  and  die  with  Ms  ?ioble 
brother.  He  has  received  obligations  of  the  first  magnitude  from  that  noble 
brother,  yet  what  trace  of  gratitude  or  of  friendship  was  ever  found  in  any 
part  of  his  conduct?  and  has  he  not  now  declared  the  most  open  variance., 
and  even  hostility?  I  have  had  as  warm  and  express  declarations  of  regard 
as  could  be  made  by  this  marble-hearted  friend,  and  Mr.  Pitt  had  no  doubt 
his  views  in  even  feeding  me  with  flattery  from  time  to  time;  on  occasions 
too  where  candour  and  indulgence  were  all  I  could  claim.  He  may  re- 
member the  compliments  he  paid  me  on  two  certain  poems  in  the  year 
1754.  If  I  were  to  take  the  declarations  made  by  himself  and  the  late  Mr. 
Potter  d  la  letter,  they  were  more  charmed  with  those  verses  after  the 
ninety-ninth  reading,  than  after  the  first;  so  that  from  this  circumstance, 
as  well  as  a  few  of  his  speeches  in  parliament,  it  seems  to  be  likewise  true 
of  the  first  orator,  or  rather  the  first  comedian,  of  our  age,  non  displicuissc 
iUijocos,  sed  non  contigisse. 

"  I  will  now  submit  to  your  Grace,  if  there  was  not  something  pecu- 
liarly base  and  perfidious  in  Mr.  Pitt's  calling  me  a  blasphemer  of  my  God 
for  those  very  verses,  at  a  time  when  I  was  absent,  and  dangerously  ill 
from  an  affair  of  honour.  The  charge  too  he  knew  was  false,  for  the  whole 
ridicule  of  those  two  pieces  was  confined  to  certain  mysteries,  which  for- 
merly the  unplaced  and  unpensioned  Mr.  Pitt  did  not  think  himself  obliged 
even  to  affect  to  believe.  He  added  another  charge  equally  unjust,  that  I 
was  the  libeller  of  my  King,  though  he  was  sensible  that  i  never  wrote  a 
single  line  disrespectful  to  the  sacred  person  of  my  Sovereign,  but  had 
only  attacked  the  despotism  of  his  ministers,  with  the  spirit  becoming  a 
<jood  subject,  and  zealous  friend  of  his  country.  The  reason  of  this  perfidy 
was  plain.  He  was  then  beginning  to  pay  homage  to  the  Scottish  idol,  and 
1  was  the  most  accept  sacrifice  he  could  offer  at  the  shrine  of  Bute. 
History  scarcely  gives  so  remarkable,  a  change.  He  was  a  few  years  ago 

the 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  161 

too  much  zeal;  but  such  is  the  reward,  which  the  tools  of 
faction  usually  receive,  and  in  some  measure  deserve,  when 
they  are  imprudent  enough  to  hazard  every  thing  in  support 
of  other  men's  ambition. 

the  mad,  seditious  tribune  of  the  people,  insulting  his  Sovereign,  even  in 
bis  capital  city,  now  he  is  the  abject,  crouching  deputy  of  the  proud  Scot, 
who  he  declared  in  parliament  -wanted  wisdom,  and  held  principles  incompati- 
ble with  freedom;  a  most  ridiculous  character  surely  for  a  statesman,  and 
the  subject  of  a  free  kingdom,  but  the  proper  composition  for  ^.favourite. 
Was  it  possible  for  me  after  this  to  write  a  suppliant  letter  to  Lord  Chat- 
ham? I  am  the  first  to  pronounce  myself  most  unworthy  of  a  pardon,  if  I 
could  have  obtained  it  on  those  terms. 

"  Although  I  declare,  my  Lord,  that  the  conscious  pride  of  virtue  makes 
me  look  down  with  contempt  on  a  man,  who  could  be  guilty  of  this  base- 
ness, who  could  in  the  lobby  declare  that  I  must  be  supported,  and  in  the 
House  on  the  same  day  desert  and  revile  me,  yet  I  will  on  every  occasion 
do  justice  to  the  minister.  He  has  served  the  public  in  all  those  points, 
where  the  good  of  the  nation  coincided  with  his  own  private  views;  and  in 
no  other.  I  venerate  the  memory  of  the  secretary,  and  I  think  it  an  honour 
to  myself  that  I  steadily  supported  in  parliament  an  administration,  the 
most  successful  we  ever  had,  and  which  carried  the  glory  of  the  nation  to 
the  highest  pitch  in  every  part  of  the  world.  He  found  his  country  almost 
in  despair.  He  raised  the  noble  spirit  of  England,  and  strained  every  nerve 
against  our  enemies.  His  plans,  when  in  power,  were  always  great,  though 
in  direct  opposition  to  the  declarations  of  his  whole  life,  when  out  of 
power.  The  invincible  bravery  of  the  British  troops  gave  success  even  to 
the  most  rash,  the  most  extravagant,  the  most  desperate  of  his  projects. 
He  saw  early  the  hostile  intentions  of  Spain,  and  if  the  written  advice  had 
been  followed,  a  very  few  weeks  had  then  probably  closed  the  last  general 
war;  although  the  merit  of  that  advice  was  more  the  merit  of  his  noble 
brother,  than  his  own.  After  the  omnipotence  of  Lord  Bute  in  1761  had 
forced  Mr.  Pitt  to  retire  from  his  Majesty's  councils,  and  the  cause  was 
declared  by  himself  to  be  our  conduct  relative  to  Spain,  I  had  the  happi- 
ness of  setting  that  affair  in  so  clear  and  advantageous  a  light,  that  he  ex- 
pressed the  most  entire  satisfaction,  and  particular  obligations  to  my  friend- 
ship. I  do  not  however  make  this  a  claim  of  merit  to  Mr.  Pitt.  It  was  my 
duty,  from  the  peculiar  advantages  of  information  I  then  had." 

In  answer  to  these  strictures  Sir  William  Draper  in  the  letter  subscrib- 
ed W.  D.  and  which  is  too  long  to  be  copied  verbatim,  quotes  several  of 
Mr.  Wilkes's  previous  declarations  in  favour  of  Lord  Chatham,  while  Mr. 
Pitt,  and  concludes  as  follows: — 

"  The  letter  asserts  also  that  Lord  Chatham  is  now  the  abject,  crouch- 
ing deputy  of  Lord  Bute,  who  he  declared  in  parliament  wanted  wisdom. 
and  held  principles  incompatible  with  freedom.  The  world  knows  nothing 
t>f  this  abject,  crouching  deputed  minister,  but  from  Mr.  Wilkes's  single 
affirmation;  but  all  know  that  his  Majesty  has  been  pleased  to  call  Lord 
Vol.  II.  X  Chatham 


16:2  MISCELLANEOUS 

I  cannot  admit,  that  because  Mr.  Pitt  was  respected  ane& 
honoured  a  few  years  ago,  the  Earl  of  Chatham  therefore 
deserves  to  be  so  now;  or  that  a  description,  which  might 
have  suited  him  at  one  part  of  his  life,  must  of  necessity  be 
the  only  one  applicable  to  him  at  another.  It  is  barely  possi- 
ble, that  a  very  honest  commoner  may  become  a  very  cor- 

Chatham  again  to  the  ministry:  if  Lord  Bute  supports  him  in  it,  he  gives 
the  noblest  proof  of  generosity  and  greatness  of  soul,  and  has  revenged 
himself  in  the  finest  manner  upon  Lord  Chatham  for  those  expressions, 
and  affords  the  strongest  proof  that  he  does  not  want  wisdom,  or  hold 
principles  incompatible  with  freedom.  What  greater  proof  of  wisdom  can 
he  give,  than  in  supporting  that  person  who  is  the  most  capable  of  doing 
good  to  his  country,  and  has  upon  all  occasions  approved  himself  the  most 
zealous  protector  of  its  liberties?  But  I  beg  pardon;  upon  a  late  occasion, 
indeed,  Lord  Chatham  shewed  himself  to  be  no  friend  to  liberty;  he  was 
so  very  tyrannical,  as  well  as  Lord  Camden,  that  he  denied  some  traders 
the  right,  liberty,  and  privilege  of  starving  his  fellow-citizens,  by  export- 
ing all  the  corn  out  of  the  kingdom,  for  which  he  has  met  with  his  reward, 
and  been  as  much  abused  as  if  he  himself  had  been  guilty  of  starving  them- 
Is  there  no  Tarpeian  rock  for  such  a  tyrant? 

"  Mr.  Wilkes  has  now  done  with  Lord  Chatham,  leaving  him  to  the 
poor  consolation  of  a  place,  a  peerage,  and  a  pension;  for  which,  he  says, 
he  has  sold  the  confidence  of  a  great  nation.  But  I  cannot  take  leave  of, 
or  have  done  with  Mr.  Wilkes,  without  making  a  few  observations  upon 
this  paragraph:  Mr.  Wilkes  is  a  great  jester;  in  this  place  he  cannot  pos- 
sibly be  serious;  for  as  to  the  pension,  I  think  I  cannot  explain  it  better  to 
my  countrymen,  than  in  Mr.  Wilkes's  own  words,  August  12,  1762. 

"I  must,  in  compliance  with  a  few  vulgar  writers,  call  the  inadequate 
reward  given  to  Mr.  Pitt,  for  as  great  services  as  ever  were  performed  by 
a  subject,  a  pension,  although  the  grant  is  not  during  pleasure,  and  there- 
fore cannot  create  any  undue,  unconstitutional  influence.  In  the  same  light 
we  are  to  consider  the  Dukes  of  Cumberland's  and  Marlborough's,  Prince 
Ferdinand's,  and  Admiral  Hawke's,  Mr.  Onslow's,  &c.  &c.  8tc.  I  was  going 
to  call  it  the  King's  gold  box;  for  Mr.  Pitt  having  before  received  the  most 
obliging  marks  of  regard  from  the  public,  the  testimony  of  his  Sovereign 
only  remained  wanting." 

M  Now  as  Mr.  Wilkes  has  so  fully  set  forth  the  nature  of  this  pension,  I 
cannot  think  it  will  at  all  lessen  the  confidence  of  the  nation  in  Lord  Chat- 
ham: it  may  very  possibly  lessen  their  confidence  in  Mr.  Wilkes,  who  has 
contradicted  himself  so  furiously,  and  perhaps  destroy  that  idea  of  con- 
sistency which  the  gentleman  boasts  of  in  his  letter  to  the  Duke  of  Graf- 
ton; where  he  assures  his  Grace,  that  'however  unfashionable  such  a  de- 
claration may  be,  consistency  shall  never  depart  from  his  character.'  The 
reader  has  the  proofs  before  him,  and  will  judge  of  it  accordingly.  W.  D ." 
•—Edit. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS,  163 

rupt  and  worthless  peer;  and  I  am  inclined  to  suspect  that 
Mr.  C.  D.  will  find  but  few  people  credulous  enough  to  be- 
lieve that  either  Mr.  Pitt  or  Mr.  Pultney,  when  they  accept- 
ed of  a  title,  did  not,  by  that  action,  betray  their  friends, 
their  country,  and,  in  every  honourable  sense,  themselves. 
Mr.  C.  D.  wilfully  misrepresents  the  cause  of  that  censure, 
which  was  very  justly  thrown  upon  Lord  Chatham,  when 
the  exportation  of  corn  was  prohibited  by  proclamation.  The 
measure  itself  was  necessary,  and  the  more  necessary  from 
the  scandalous  delay  of  the  ministry  in  calling  the  parliament 
together;  but  to  maintain  that  the  proclamation  was  legal, 
and  that  there  was  a  suspending  power  lodged  in  the  Crown, 
was  such  an  outrage  to  the  common  sense  of  mankind,  and 
such  a  daring  attack  upon  the  constitution,  as  a  free  people 
ought  never  to  forgive.  The  man,  who  maintained  those 
doctrines,  ought  to  have  had  the  Tarpeian  rock,  or  a  gibbet 
for  his  reward.  Another  gentleman,  upon  that  occasion,  had 
spirit  and  patriotism  enough  to  declare,  even  in  a  respectable 
assembly,  that  when  he  advised  the  proclamation,  he  did  it 
with  the  strongest  conviction  of  its  being  illegal;  but  he  rest- 
ed his  defence  upon  the  unavoidable  necessity  of  the  case, 
and  submitted  himself  to  the  judgment  of  his  country.  This 
noble  conduct  deserved  the  applause  and  gratitude  of  the 
nation,  while  that  of  the  Earl  of  Chatham,  and  his  miser- 
able understrappers,  deserved  nothing  but  detestation  and 
contempt. 

POPLICOLA. 


LETTER  III. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 

24  June,  1767. 
Accedere  matrem  muliebri  imfiotentid;  serviendum  feminee^  duobus- 
que  insufier   nebulonibus^   qui  remfiublicam   interim  firemant^ 
quandoque  distrahant.  Tacitus  l°Annalium. 

The  uncertain  state  of  politics  in  this  country  sets  all  the 
speculations  of  the  press  at  defiance.  To  talk  of  modern  mi- 
nisters, or  to  examine  their  conduct,  would  be  to  reason 


164  MISCELLANEOUS 

without  data;  for  whether  it  be  owing  to  the  real  simple  in- 
nocence of  doing  nothing,  or  to  a  happy  mysteriousness  in 
concealing  their  activity,  we  know  as  little  of  the  services 
they  have  performed,  since  it  became  their  lot  to  appear  in 
the  gazette,  as  we  did  of  their  persons  or  characters  before. 
They  seem  to  have  come  together  by  a  sort  of  fortuitous 
concourse,  and  have  hitherto  done  nothing  else  but  jumble 
and  jostle  one  another,  without  being  able  to  settle  into  any 
one  regular  or  consistent  figure.  I  am  not  however  such  an 
atheist  in  politics  as  to  suppose  that  there  is  not  somewhere 
an  original  creating  cause,  which  drew  these  atoms  forth  into 
existence;  but  it  seems  the  utmost  skill  and  cunning  of  that 
secret  governing  hand  could  go  no  farther.  To  create  or  fo- 
ment confusion,  to  sacrifice  the  honour  of  a  King,  or  to  de- 
stroy the  happiness  of  a  nation,  requires  no  talent,  but  a 
natural  itch  for  doing  mischief.  We  have  seen  it  performed 
for  years  successively,  with  a  wantonness  of  triumph,  by  a 
man  who  had  neither  abilities  nor  personal  interest,  nor  even 
common  personal  courage*.  It  has  been  possible  for  a  noto- 
rious coward,  skulking  under  a  petticoat,  to  make  a  great 
nation  the  prey  of  his  avarice  and  ambition.  But  I  trust  the 
time  is  not  very  distant  when  we  shall  see  him  dragged  forth 
from  his  retirement,  and  forced  to  answer  severely  for  all  the 
mischiefs  he  hath  brought  upon  us. 

It  is  worth  while  to  consider,  though  perhaps  not  safe  to 
point  out,  by  what  arts  it  hath  been  possible  for  him  to  main- 
tain himself  so  long  in  power,  and  to  screen  himself  from 
national  justice.  Some  of  them  have  been  obvious  enough; 
the  rest  may  without  difficulty  be  guessed  at.  But  whatever 
they  are,  it  is  not  above  a  twelvemonth  ago,  since  they  might 
have  all  been  defeated,  and  the  venomous  spider  itself  caught 
and  trampled  on  in  its  own  webs.  It  was  then  his  good  for- 
tune to  corrupt  one  man,  from  whom  we  least  of  all  expect- 
ed so  base  an  apostacyf.  Who  indeed  could  have  suspected, 
that  it  should  ever  consist  with  the  spirit  or  understanding 
of  that  person  to  accept  of  a  share  of  power  under  a  pernio 

*  The  Earl  of  Bate.  Edit.  f  The  Earl  of  Chatham.  Edit 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS  165 

oious  court  minion,  whom  he  himself  had  affected  to  detest 
or  despise,  as  much  as  he  knew  he  was  detested  and  despised 
by  the  whole  nation?  I  will  not  censure  him  for  the  avarice 
of  a  pension,  nor  the  melancholy  ambition  of  a  title.  These 
were  objects  which  he  perhaps  looked  up  to,  though  the  rest 
of  the  world  thought  them  far  beneath  his  acceptance.  But, 
to  become  the  stalking-horse  of  a  stallion,  to  shake  hands 
with  a  Scotchman  at  the  hazard  of  catching  all  his  infamy; 
to  fight  under  his  auspices  against  the  constitution;  and  to 
receive  the  word  from  him,  prerogative  and  a  thistle;  (by 
the  once  respected  name  of  Pitt)  it  is  even  below  contempt. 
But  it  seems  that  this  unhappy  country  had  long  enough  beeji 
distracted  by  their  divisions,  and  in  the  last  instance  was  to 
be  oppressed  by  their  union.  May  that  union,  honourable  as 
it  is,  subsist  for  ever!  may  they  continue  to  smell  at  one 
thistle,  and  not  be  separated  even  in  death! 

ANTI-SEJANUS,  Jvs. 


LETTER  IV. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF    THE  PUBLIC    ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  St.  James's  Coffee-House,  25  Aug.  1767. 

I  have  been  some  time  in  the  country,  which  has  pre- 
vented your  hearing  sooner  from  me.  I  find  you  and  your 
brother  printers  have  got  greatly  into  a  sort  of  knack  of  stuff- 
ing your  papers  with  flummery  upon  two  certain  brothers*, 
who  are  labour-in-vain  endeavouring  to  force  themselves 
out  of  the  world's  contempt.  I  have  great  good  will  to  you, 
and  hope  you  are  well  paid  for  this  sort  of  nonsense,  as  in- 
deed you  ought  to  be,  for  it  certainly  disgraces  your  paper. 
It  is  in  vain  that  your  friends  assure  the  coffee-house,  that 
these  things  are  wrote  by  the  brothers  themselves;  that  you 
believe  no  more  of  them  than  the  rest  of  the  world  does;  and 

*  Lord  Townshend,  and  his  brother,  the  honourable  Charles  Townshend, 
the  former  just  appointed  lord  lieutenant  of  Ireland,  and  the  Litter  at  this 
time  chancellor  of  the  exchequer.  Edit. 


166  MISCELLANEOUS 

that  you  only  put  them  in  to  shew  your  extreme  impartiality., 
which  sometimes  obliges  you  to  insert  the  most  improbable 
stories;  I  would  therefore  advise  you  as  a  friend,  to  give  up 
this  noble  pair  as  enfans  perdus. 

I  am  not  a  stranger  to  this  par  nobile  fratrum.  I  have 
served  under  the  one,  and  have  been  forty  times  promised 
to  be  served  by  the  other.  I  don't  think  it  possible  to  cha- 
racterise either  without  having  recourse  to  the  other;  but 
any  body  who  knows  one  of  them,  may  easily  obtain  an  idea 
of  the  other:  Thus  now;  suppose  you  acquainted  with  the 
chancellor,  take  away  his  ingenuity,  and  a  something,  that  at 
times  looks  something  like  good-nature,  but  it  is  not,  and  you 
have  the  direct  and  actual  character  of  the  peer;  a  boaster 
without  spirit,  and  a  pretender  to  wit  without  a  grain  of  sense; 
in  a  word,  a  vainglorious  idler  without  one  single    good 

quality  of  head  or  heart.  I  hope  his  affairs  with  Lord 

and  Mr. are  the  only  instances  of  his  setting  out  with 

unnecessary  insolence,  and  ending  with  shameful  tameness. 
But  is  such  a  man  likely  to  please  the  brave  Irish,  whose 
hasty  tempers,  or  whose  blunders,  may  sometimes  lead  them 
into  a  quarrel;  but  whose  swords  always  carry  them  through 
it.  Are  these  the  pair,  who  are  to  give  stability  to  a  waver- 
ing favourite,  and  permanency  to  a  locum  tenens  administra- 
tion? Alas!  alas! 

Non  tali  auxilio,  nee  defensoribus  istis 
Tempus  eget: 

And  is  it  by  such  a  prop  that  Grafton  thinks  to  stand,  af- 
ter throwing  down  his  idol  Pitt,  at  whose  false  altar  he  had 
before  sacrificed  his  friends?  Is  it  for  such  a  man  that  Con- 
way foregoes  the  connections  of  his  youth,  and  the  friends 
of  his  best  and  ripest  judgment. — 0  tempore!  O  mores! 

A  FAITHFUL  MONITOR 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  167 


LETTER  V*. 

TO    THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PVBLIC  ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  16  Sept.  \~67- 

His  Excellency  the  Lord  Lieutenant  of  Irelandf,  is  said 
to  have  a  singular  turn  for  portrait  painting,  which  he  wil- 
lingly employs  in  the  service  of  his  friends.  He  performs 
gratis,  and  seldom  gives  them  the  trouble  of  sitting  for  their 
pictures.  But  I  believe  the  talents  of  this  ingenious  noble- 
man never  had  so  fair  an  occasion  of  being  employed  to 
advantage  as  at  present.  It  happens  very  fortunately  for  him, 
that  he  has  now  a  set  of  friends,  who  seem  intended  by  na- 
ture for  the  subjects  of  such  a  pencil.  In  delineating  their 
features  to  the  public,  he  will  have  an  equal  opportunity  of 
displaying  the  delicacy  of  his  hand,  and  upon  which  he 
chiefly  piques  himself,  the  benevolence  of  his  heart.  But 
considering  the  importance  of  his  present  cares,  I  would 
fain  endeavour  to  save  him  the  labour  of  the  design,  in  hopes 
that  he  will  bestow  a  few  moments  more  upon  the  execution. 
Yet  I  will  not  presume  to  claim  the  merit  of  invention.  The 
blindness  of  chance  has  done  more  for  the  painter,  than  the 
warmest  fancy  could  have  imagined,  and  has  brought  toge- 
ther such  a  groupe  of  figures,  as  I  believe  never  appeared 
in  real  life  or  upon  canvas  before. 

Your  principal  character,  my  Lord,  is  a  young  duke:}: 
mounted  upon  a  lofty  phaeton;  his  head  grows  giddy:  his 
horses  carry  him  violently  down  a  precipice,  and  a  bloody 
oarcase,  the  fatal  emblem  of  Britannia,  lies  mangled  under 
his  wheels.  By  the  side  of  this  furious  charioteer  sits  Cau- 
tion without  foresight§,  a  motley  thing,  half  military,  scarce 

*  The  following  answer  to  correspondents  in  the  Public  Advertiser  of 
Sept.  16,  identifies  Junius  to  have  been  the  writer  of  this  letter.  "Our 
Correspondent  C.  will  observe,  that  we  have  obeyed  his  directions  in 
every  particular,  and  we  shall  always  pay  the  utmost  attention  to  whatever 
comes  from  so  masterly  a  pen."  Edit. 

f  Lord  Townshend.  Edit.  i.  The  Duke  of  Grafton.  Edit 

^  Mr.  Conway,  secretary  of  state  for  the  northern  department.   E^n  . 


168  MISCELLANEOUS 

civil.  He  too  would  guide,  but,  let  who  will  drive,  is  deter- 
mined to  have  a  seat  in  the  carriage.  If  it  be  possible,  my 
Lord,  give  him  to  us  in  the  attitude  of  an  orator  eating  the 
end  of  a  period,  which  may  begin  with,  I  did  not  say  I  would 
pledge  MYself — The  rest  he  eats. 

Your  next  figure  must  bear  the  port  and  habit  of  a  judge. 
The  laws  of  England  under  his  feet,  and  before  his  distorted 
vision  a  dagger,  which  he  calls  the  law  of  nature,  and  which 
marshals  him  the  way  to  the  murder  of  the  constitution*. 

In  such  good  company,  the  respectable  president  of  the 
council,  cannot  possibly  be  omittedf.  A  reasonable  number 
of  decrees  must  be  piled  up  behind  him,  with  the  word  re- 
versed in  capital  letters  upon  each  of  them;  and  out  of  his 

decent  lips  a  compliment  a  la  Tilbury,  Hell  andd n  blast 

you  all.     ***** 

There  is  still  a  young  man,  my  Lord,  who  I  think  will 
make  a  capital  figure  in  the  piece.  His  features  are  too  hap- 
pily marked  to  be  mistaken.  A  single  line  of  his  face  will  be 
sufficient  to  give  us  the  heir  apparent  of  Loyola  and  all  the 
College.  A  little  more  of  the  devil,  my  Lord,  if  you  please, 
about  the  eyebrows;  that's  enough;  a  perfect  Malagrida  Ipro- 
test\!  So  much  for  his  person;  and  as  for  his  mind,  a  blink- 
ing bull  dog  placed  near  him,  will  form  a  very  natural  type 
of  all  his  good  qualities. 

These  are  the  figures,  which  are  to  come  forward  to  the 
front  of  the  piece.  Your  friendship  for  the  Earl  of  Bute  will 

*  Lord  Camden.  A  scarcity  of  grain  having-  been  experienced  during 
the  recess,  government  had  taken  upon  itseif  to  stop  the  exportation  of 
corn,  in  defiance  of  an  act  of  parliament  that  granted  a  bounty  for  export- 
ing it.  The  legality  of  this  measure  of  a  proclamation  having  been  ques« 
tioned,  Lord  Camden  maintained  that  in  a  case  of  necessity,  the  crown 
was  possessed  of  a  legal  power  to  suspend  the  operation  of  an  act  of  the 
legislature.  See  this  subject  farther  touched  upon  in  Junius,  Vol.  II. 
Letter  lix.  Edit. 

f  Lord  Northington,  formerly  lord  chancellor,  whose  decrees  have  been 
allowed  less  weight  than  those  of  the  greater  number  of  the  dignified  cha- 
racters who  have  since  held  this  important  office.  Edit. 

\  Lord  Shelburne,  father  to  the  present  Marquis  of  Lansdown,  at  that 
time  secretarv  cf  state  for  the  southern  department.  Edit 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS*.  169 

naturally  secure  a  corner  in  the  retirement  for  him  and  his 
curtain.  Provided  you  discover  him    *     *     #     *     *^J 

If  there  are  still  any  vacancies  in  the  canvas,  you  will 
easily  fill  them  up  with  fixtures  or  still  life.  You  may  shew 
us  half  a  paymaster*  for  instance,  with  a  paper  stuck  upon 
the  globe  of  his  eye,  and  a  label  out  of  his  mouth,  No,  Sir,  I 
am  of  t'other  side,  Sir.  How  I  lament  that  sounds  cannot  be 
conveyed  to  the  eye! 

You  may  give  us  a  Commander  in  Chieff,  and  a  Secre- 
tary at  Warf  seeming  to  pull  at  two  ends  of  a  rope;  while  a 
slip  knot  in  the  middle  may  really  strangle  three-fourths  of 
the  army;  or  a  lunatic  brandishing  a  crutch§,  or  bawling 
through  a  grate,  or  writing  with  desperate  charcoal  a  letter 
to  North  America;  or  a  Scotch  secretary  teaching  the  Irish 
people  the  true  pronunciation  of  the  English  language.  That 
barbarous  people  are  but  little  accustomed  to  figures  of  ora- 
tory, so  that  you  may  represent  him  in  any  attitude  you 
think  proper,  from  that  of  Sir  Gilbert  Elliot!;  down  to  Go- 
vernor Johnstone.  These,  however,  are  but  the  slighter 
ornaments  of  composition,  and  so  I  leave  them  to  the  choice 
of  your  own  luxurious  fancy. 

The  back  ground  may  be  shadowed  with  the  natural  ob- 
scurity of  Scotch  clerks  and  Scotch  secretaries,  who  may  be 
itched  out  to  the  life,  with  one  hand  grasping  a  pen,  the 
other  riveted  in  their  respective  *  *  #■#•###.  Your 
southern  writers  are  apt  to  rub  their  foreheads  in  the  agony 
of  composition;  but  with  Scotchmen,  the  seat  of  inspiration 
lies  in  a  lower  place,  which,  while  the  furor  is  upon  them, 
they  lacerate  without  mercy.  By  this  delectable  friction, 
their  imaginations  become  as  prurient  as  their  *  *  *  * 
*    *,  and  the  latter  are  relieved  from  one  sort  of  mattert 

U  A  lady,  who  was  thought  to  have  considerable  influence,  is  here 
alluded  to.  Edit. 

*  Sir  G.Cooke  and  T.  Townshend,  Esq.  afterwards  Lord  Sydney,  were 
joint  paymasters,  the  latter  of  whom  is  supposed  to  be  alluded  to.  Edit. 

f  The  Marquis  of  Granby.  Edit.  i  Lord  Barrington.  Edit. 

§  Lord  Chatham.  Edit.  j|  At  that  time  Irish  secretary.  Edit, 

Vol.  II.  Y 


170  MISCELLANEOUS 

while  their  brains  are  supplied  with  another.  Every  thing 
they  write  in  short  is  polished  ad  unguem. 

But  amidst  ail  the  licence  of  your  wit,  my  Lord,  I  must 
entreat  you  to  remember  that  there  is  one  character  too  high 
and  too  sacred  even  for  the  pencil  of  a  peer,  though  your 
Lordship  has  formerly  done  business  for  the  family.  Be- 
sides, the  attempt  would  be  unnecessary.  The  true  character 
of  that  great  person  is  engraven  in  the  hearts  of  the  Irish 
nation;  and  as  to  a  false  one,  they  need  only  take  a  survey 
of  the  person  and  manners  of  their  chief  governor,  if,  in  the 
midst  of  their  distresses  they  can  laugh  at  the  perfect  carica- 
tura  of  a  king. 

I  have  the  honour  to  be,  Sec. 
Yours, 

CORREGGIO. 


LETTER  VI. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  12  October,  1767. 

There  has  been  for  some  time  past  a  very  curious  alter- 
cation carried  on  through  your  paper  between  Philo  Verita- 
tis  and  No  Ghost.  This  altercation  has  hitherto  been  carried 
on  like  other  political  disputes,  by  affirmatives  and  negatives, 
assertions  and  contradictions,  good  hits  and  smart  repar- 
tees. This  is  the  kind  of  combat  usually  fought  on,  and 
indeed  the  only  one  adapted  to  the  field  of,  a  public  paper. 
But  I  perceive,  not  without  anxiety,  that  another  species  of 
battle  is  likely  to  take  place  between  the  two  champions 
whom  I  have  mentioned*.  In  this  I  am  too  much  concern- 

*  Vide  Philo  Veriiatu  his  letter  in  this  paper,  of  the  sixth  instant.  The 
following  extract  from  it,  will  enable  the  reader  the  better  to  understand 
the  allusions  in  the  present  letter. 

"That  his  Excellency  the  present  lord  lieutenant  of  Ireland  command- 
ed at  Quebec,  is  indisputable.  Captain  Schomberg,  as  gallant  an  officer  as 
any  in  the  navy,  and  who  with  the  brave  captain  Dean,  burnt  and  destroy- 
ed the  French  fleet,  had  the  honour  to  convey  him  up  the  Gulph  of  St. 
Lawrence,  where  his  Excellency  multiplied  his  military  glory;  and  here 
1  cannot  omit  an  anecdote  relating  to  his  Lordship,  which  occurred  at 

Dettingen 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  171 

ed  to  remain  neuter.  I  have  courage  enough  to  draw  my 
pen  upon  any  man,  but  I  should  be  very  unwilling  to  draw 
my  sword;  the  pop-gun  of  wit  I  can  stand,  but  a  pistol  is 
what  I  dare  not  face.  Somehow  or  other,  I  have  taken  it 
into  my  head,  that  the  dull  and  heavy  argument  of  a  pistol 
ball  is  more  convincing  than  the  most  elaborate  reasoning, 
or  the  keenest  wit  which  can  be  delivered  by  a  pen.  Alas, 
Sir,  what  then  shall  I  do?  Shall  I  remain  silent,  whilst  No 
Ghost  affirms  that  the  Lord  Lieutenant  of  Ireland  is  a  cow- 
ard, and  Philo  Veritatis  (e  contra)  declares  him  a  brave  and 
undaunted  soldier? — It  is  of  little  importance  which  side  I 
am  inclined  to  from  judgment.  If  I  declare  in  favour  of  Phi- 
lo Veritatis,  I  incur  the  danger  of  a  pen  which  he  himself 
seems  to  think  very  sharp;  indeed  so  sharp,  as  to  beg  of  his 
opponent  to  lay  it  aside,  and  take  up  a  pistol;  on  the  other 
hand,  if  I  join  with  No  Ghost,  I  have  a  pistol  at  my  head, 
which  may  make  a  ghost  of  me.  Thus  circumstanced,  I  will 
not  take  either  part,  but  offer  myself  as  a  friend  to  both,  to 
measure  the  ground,  give  the  word,  and  carry  off  the  body 
of  which  ever  shall  fall  in  the  field  of  honour.  In  this  charac- 
ter I  shall  beg  (previous  to  their  engagement)  to  state  a  few 

Dettingen  in  German}'.  In  the  very  heat  of  the  carnage  of  that  day,  and 
amidst  the  horrors  of  almost  universal  desolation,  a  soldier,  fighting  near 
his  Lordship's  side,  was  killed  by  a  cannon  ball;  part  of  his  brains  flew 
out,  and  some  on  his  Lordship's  clothes  and  in  his  face.  The  brave  Gene- 
ral G being  near  him,  said, '  My  Lord,  this  is  terrible  work  to  day:' 

'  So  it  is,'  replied  his  Lordship,  wiping  himself  with  great  calmness;  'but 
one  would  imagine,  General,  this  man  had  too  much  brains  to  be  here,'  at 
the  same  time  tears  of  manly  pity  filled  his  compassionate  eyes. 

44  Now  if  humanity,  intrepidity,  and  (what  the  French  justly  distinguish 
by  the  name  of)  sangfroid,  be  the  characteristics  of  a  valiant  soldier,  my  fa- 
vourite Lord,  (and  such  1  am  proud  to  own  him)  can,  as  the  lawyers  say, 
make  out,  even  from  this  single  story,  a  good  title,  and  does  deserve  (as  I  have 
before  averred)  to  have  his  name  inscribed  in  adamantine  letters  on  a  co- 
lumn of  eternal  fame;  and  if  Mr.  No  Ghost  disputes  it,  I  (in  the  ancient 
stile  of  the  Heralds)  defy  him:  I  accept  his  gauntlet  and  stand  forth  his 
Lordship's  avowed  champion;  though  a  bad  one,  ready  to  fight  in  his  de- 
fence, either  with  pistol  or  pen,  and  desire  No  Ghost  to  accept  of  a  Row- 
land for  his  Oliver  in  a  scrap  of  Latin  on  my  side. 

"  Parturiunt  tnontes;  nasceter  vidkulus  mus.  Bye  bye  Mr.  No  Ghost. 

October  2.  PHILO  VERITATIS."        En- 


172  MISCELLANEOUS 

points  not  )'et  decided  between  them,  and  which  they  have 
not  yet  carried  far  enough  in  discussion,  to  require  the  de- 
cision of  powder  and  ball.  Give  me  leave  first  (though  I  de- 
clare no  prepossession  in  his  favour)  to  compliment  Philo 
Veritatis  the  advocate  for  his  Lordship's  courage,  on  his  own 
bravery,  who  under  a  fictitious  name,  challenges  with  the  ut- 
most intrepidity  to  single  and  mortal  combat,  a  nameless  op- 
ponent. I  should  spend  some  time,  and  take  some  pains,  to 
turn  this  compliment  and  make  it  worthy  of  him,  but  that  I 
dare  say  he  is  sufficiently  applauded  already,  by  those  to 
whom  he  has  revealed  himself,  for  such  an  unexampled 
piece  of  heroism. 

Now,  to  my  purpose:  Philo  Veritatis  asserts,  that  his  hero, 
Lord  Townshend,  gave  proofs  of  his  bravery  at  Minden  and 
Quebec.  No  Ghost  denies  the  fact,  upon  the  presumed  im- 
possibility of  his  transporting  himself  from  one  of  these 
places  to  the  other  in  the  space  of  ten  days,  unless  he  could 
jly,  and  that  very  fast  too.  Now  Jlying  being  a  quality  which 
Philo  Veritatis  does  not  chuse  to  ascribe  (whatever  belief  it 
might  gain  with  the  public)  to  his  hero,  answers  this  in 
somewhat  of  a  new  way:  "  This  objection,"  says  he,  "  has 
no  weight,  and  is  made  only  to  introduce  a  scrap  of  Latin 
and  a  witticism."  This  may  be  a  very  good  answer  at  cross 
purposes;  but  is,  I  confess,  a  very  whimsical  one  in  the  pre- 
sent case.  Surelv,  Sir,  this  matter  is  not  yet  come  so  close 
to  a  point,  as  to  require  the  arbitration  of  a  pistol.  Let  Philo 
Veritatis  again  (for  he  has  once  already  done  it)  affirm,  that 
the  hero  was  present  at  both  actions;  No  Ghost  denies  it; 
Philo  gives  the  lie;  No  Ghost  knocks  him  down,  and  then  the 
pistol  enters  as  naturally  as  possible,  and  without  the  small- 
est breach  of  the  rule  which  Horace  has  laid  down  on  this 
occasion:  Nee  Deus  intersit,  nisi  dignus  vindice  nodus. 

No  Ghost  having  denied  that  his  Lordship  was  actually 
present  at  both  places,  Philo  seems  to  fear  lest  we  should 
doubt  that  he  was  at  neither;  Minden  he  gives  up;  but  being 
resolved  to  prove  that  he  was  at  Quebec,  he  informs  us  that 
the  brave  captain  Schomberg  had  the  honour  of  conveying 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS1. 


40 


him  up  the  Gulph  of  St.  Lawrence,  where  his  Lordship 
multiplied  his  glory.  These  are  the  words.  It  is  not  my  bu- 
siness to  make  remarks;  but  Philo  will  tell  us  where  this 
multiplication  table  may  be  found;  and  I  would  recommend 
his  Lordship  to  study  it  most  attentively;  he  need  go  no  far- 
ther in  this  kind  of  arithmetic;  the  next  rule  will  be  quite 
unnecessary,  as  I  presume  no  one  will  desire  to  divide  with 
his  Lordship.  Now,  if  I  guess  right,  the  No  Ghost  will  not 
deny  that  the  brave  Schomberg  conveyed  him  up  the  gulph, 
and  therefore  this  does  not  call  very  loudly  for  the  pistol. 
Every  one  will  acknowledge  that  Lord  Townshend  was  at 
Quebec;  for  every  one  remembers  his  letter  from  thence; 
and  perhaps  Philo  can  tell  who  the  secretary  was. 

To  this  multiplication  of  glory,  Philo  makes  an  addition 
of  an  anecdote,  which,  as  he  says,  occurred  to  his  Lordship 
in  Germany;  indeed  occurred;  an  anecdote  occurred;  a  cu- 
rious occurrence  it  was.  First  let  us  see  the  inference  which 
Philo  draws  from,  and  then  we  shall  relate  the  occurrence 
itself.  It  is,  that  the  humanity  of  his  favourite  Lord  (for 
such  he  is  proud  to  own  himj  is  established  by  it.  The  oc- 
currence is,  that  a  soldier  being  killed  near,  his  brains  were 
scattered  upon  his  Lordship's  clothes.  A  stander-by  re- 
marks, "  that  this  is  terrible  work."  "  True,"  says  his  Lord- 
ship, "  but  one  would  have  thought  this  fellow  had  too  much 

brains   to   be   here." Reader,  remark   this,  and  if  you 

doubt  of  his  Lordship's  humanity,  you  are  infidel  enough  to 
doubt  of  his  courage.  Well,  he  burst  into  tears:  and  who 
could  chuse  but  weep  at  a  sentiment  of  such  tender,  com- 
passionate, and  sympathising  humanity!  No  one,  that  I 
know  of,  can  suppose  these  tears  shed  from  that  depression 
of  spirits  which  the  extremity  of  fear  sometimes  causes,  and 
which  finds  some  ease  from  an  involuntary  overflow  at  the 
eyes.  Never  had  such  humanity  such  a  panegyrist;  it  does 
indeed  deserve  to  be  inscribed  on  Adamantine  pillars  of  eter- 
nal fame,  as  Philo  elegantly  expresses  it.  Now  as  he  is  such 
an  admirer  of  humanity  in  others,  let  me  call  on  his  own  hu- 
manity not  to  avail  himself  of  the  assistance  of  a  pistol  on 


174  MISCELLANEOUS 

this  occasion;  as  I  will  venture  to  answer  for  Mr.  No  Ghosty 
that  he  will  not  take  up  the  gauntlet  which  Philo  has  so 
bravely  thrown  down,  offering  him  the  choice  of  pen  or  pis- 
tol.  Alas,  Philo!  at  the  first  of  these  weapons  you  are  by 

no  means,  indeed  you  are  not,  a  match  for  No  Ghost;  and  for 
the  use  of  the  last,  you  might  chance  to  be  hanged,  and  thus 
unfortunately  frustrate  his  Lordship's  humane  intentions  of 
rewarding  your  courage  with  one  of  those  pensions  which 
he  will  multiply  on  the  Irish  establishment. 

I  am,  &c. 

MODERATOR. 


LETTER  VII. 

FOR  THE  PUBLIC  ADVERTISER. 

22  October,  1767. 
Grand  Council  upon  the  affairs  of  Ireland  after  eleven 
adjournments,* 

Hill-street,  7th  October,  1767 '. 
PRESENT. 

f  1  Tilbury  .  .  .  fuddled. 
2  Judge  Jefferyes. 

*  This  paper  was  announced  in  the.  Public  Advertiser  in  the  following 
words: — "  The  grand  council  upon  the  affairs  of  Ireland,  after  eleven  ad- 
journments, is  come  to  hand,  and  shall  have  a  place  in  our  next."  To 
which  was  added  by  the  Printer  himself: — "Our  friend  and  correspond- 
ent C.  will  always  find  the  utmost  attention  paid  to  his  favours."  C.  as  the 
reader  must  already  have  observed,  from  the  Preliminary  Dissertation 
and  Private  Letters,  was  the  secret  mark  in  use  between  Junius  and  the 
Printer,  to  inform  each  other  of  the  identity  or  receipt  of  communications. 
The  present  article,  however,  does  not  stand  in  need  of  this  accidental 
proof  of  genuineness.  Its  internal  evidence  is  sufficient  without  it:  espe- 
cially the  identity  of  its  style,  and  the  peculiar  nature  of  its  political  bear- 
ing.  Euit. 

f  1  The  Earl  of  Norlhington,  president  of  the  council. 

2  Earl  Camden. 

3  Mr.  Conway,  northern  secretary. 

•1  Lord  Shelburne,  southern  secretary. 

5  Lord  Townshend,  Lord  Lieutenant  of  Ireland. 

6  Duke  of  Grafton,  first  Lord  of  the  Treasury.  Edit. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS,  1 75 

3  Caution  without  foresight. 

4  Malagrida. 

5  Boutdeville  .  .  .  sulky. 

A  chair  left  empty  for  the  6  High  Treasurer,  detained  by 
a  hurry  of  business  at  Newmarket. 

After  a  convenient  time  spent  in  staring  at  one  another,  up  gets  Tilbury. 

Thus  from  my  Lord  his  passion  broke; 
He first,  and  then  he  spoke. 

TILBURY. 

In  the  name  of  the  Devil  and  his  dam,  can  any  body  tell, 
what  accident  brings  us  five  together? 

CAUTION. 

For  my  own  part,  my  Lords,  I  humbly  apprehend — 
though  I  speak  with  infinite  diffidence — I  say,  my  Lords,  I 
will  not  pledge  mysetf  for  the  truth  of  my  opinion — but  I 
do  humbly  conceive  with  great  submission — that  we  are 
met  together  with  a  view,  and  in  order  to  consider  whether 
it  might  not  be  adviseable  to  give  some  instructions  to  this 
noble  Lord  for  his  Government  in  Ireland,  or  whether  we 
should  leave  the  direction  of  his  conduct  to  the  same 
chance,  to  which  under  our  Sovereign  Laird  the  Earl  of 
Bute  (fhey  all  bow  their  heads)  he  owes  his  appointment.  I 
may  be  mistaken,  my  Lords,  but  I — I — I — looks  round  him, 
simpers,  and  sits  down. 

TILBURY. 

B 1  me  if  I  care  whether  he  has  any  instructions  or 

not.  But  who  the  devil's  to  draw  them  up? 

malagrida,  with  a  complacent  smile. 
That's  a  task,  my  Lords,  which  I  believe  no  man  here  is 
better  qualified  to  execute  than  myself.  Your  Lordships  well 
know  that  I  am  far  from  being  vain  of  my  talents;  yet  I  be- 
lieve I  may  affirm  without  presumption,  that  nature  has 
done  more  for  me,  without  any  effort  of  my  own,  than  other 
men  usually  derive  from  education  and  experience.  My 
Lord  Holland,  who  certainly  had  some  reason  to  know  me, 


176  MISCELLANEOUS 

has  done  me  the  honour  to  say  that  I  was  born  a  Jesuit,  and 
that  if  all  the  good  qualities  which  make  the  society  of  Jesus 
respectable,  were  banished  from  the  rest  of  the  earth,  they 
would  still  find  room  enough  in  the  bosom  of  Malagrtda. 
His  Lordship  sagaciously  observed,  that  mine  was  a  sort  of 
understanding  more  united  with  the  heart  than  the  head; 
and  that  my  ideas  of  men  and  things  depended  not  so  much 
upon  the  improvement  of  my  brain,  as  upon  the  original  co- 
lour and  consistence  of  my  blood;  consequently — But  this 
is  a  seducing  subject,  upon  which,  perhaps — I  lear — I  am 
too  willing  to  expatiate.  To  return  then  to  the  noble  Lord's 
instructions; — I  should  be  happy  to  know  what  your  Lord- 
ship's ideas  are  upon  this  most  important  question,  that, 
when  I  have  heard  all  your  opinions,  I  may  with  greater  de- 
cency follow  my  own. 

TILBURY. 

B — t  me  if  I  know  any  thing  of  the  matter.— falls  asleep* 

CAUTION. 

The  very  learned  Lord,  who  slumbers  upon  the  sofa,  hav- 
ing, with  his  usual  candour,  confessed  his  usual  ignorance 
upon  the  arduous  subject  of  our  present  debates,  it  may  seem 
presumptuous  in  a  man  of  my  inferior  qualifications,  even  to 
form,  much  more  to  deliver  any  opinion  upon  it.  For  this 
reason,  my  Lords,  although  I  venture  to  speak  first,  I  shall 
take  care  not  to  hazard  any  thing  decisive.  I  have  already 
had  the  honour  of  giving  instructions  to  governors;  and,  ex- 
cepting my  noble  colleague,  with  whom  I  agree,  that  he 
owes  as  much  to  nature  for  the  accomplishments  of  his  mind, 
as  for  those  of  his  person,  I  believe  few  men  succeed  better 

at  the  ambiguous.   It  is  my  forte,  my  Lords; 1  always 

contrive  to  leave  the  person  I  instruct  at  full  liberty  to  act  as 
he  thinks  proper,  and  entirely  at  his  own  peril.  Positive  in- 
structions are  too  apt  to  endanger  the  safety  of  those  who 
give  them.  Mine  I  am  determined  shall  endanger  nothing 
but  the  safety  of  the  state.  But  since  the  noble  Lord  abso- 
lutely insists  upon  being  instructed  some  way  or  other,  my 
friendship  for  him,  which  he  may  believe  is  full  as  sincere  as 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  177 

what  I  felt  for  his  brother — poor  Charles *  and  art  thou 

gone! so  is  my  friendship; — I  say,  my  Lords,  since  his 

Lordship  can  have  no  doubt  about  the  warmth  of  my  friend- 
ship for  him,  he  may  at  all  times  rely  upon  my  assistance  and 
concurrence,  and — and — it  is  unnecessary  I  believe  to  ex- 
plain what— — simpers  at  Sulky,  and  sits  clown. 

JUDGE   JEEFERYES,  With  dignity. 

My  Lords,  your  Lordships  know  that  the  greatest  part  of 
my  life  has  been  dedicated  to  the  study  of  the  common  and 
statute  law  of  my  country; — you  will  not  wonder  therefore 
at  my  appearing  a  strenuous  advocate  for  the  natural  liber- 
ties of  mankind,  such  as  they  possessed  them  before  the  ex- 
istence of  positive  laws  in  this  country,  or  any  other.  Now, 
my  Lords,  if  I  am  not  ill  informed,  the  Irish  are  already  in 
this  desirable  state  of  emancipation.  By  the  most  authentic 
accounts,  they  actually  approach  as  near  to  a  state  of  nature, 
as  can  be  effected  by  the  absence  of  all  legal  restraints;  and 
for  my  own  part — I  will  speak  boldly,  my  Lords — I  always 
do  when  the  liberties  of  my  fellow-subjects  are  in  question 

1  never  consider  my  own  character  in  what  I  say  either 

in  council  or  parliament; 1  think,  that  to  give  any  posi- 
tive instructions  to  a  chief  governor,  might  have  the  odious 
appearance  of  invading  the  natural  rights  of  the  Irish.  It  is 
their  claim,  it  is  their  birthright,  my  Lords,  to  talk  without 
meaning,  and  to  live  without  law.  This  is  the  sort  of  liberty 
which  our  ancestors  fought  for,  and  which  every  true  Eng- 
lishman ought  to  revere.  God  forbid,  my  Lords,  that  any 
thing  done  by  a  British  council,  should  tend  to  the  diminution 
of  privileges,  which  the  Irish  justly  think  invaluable.  Be- 
sides, my  Lords,  I  have  too  much  respect  for  the  uncommon 
talents  of  the  noble  Lord  himself,  to  wish  to  confine  him  by 
any  opinions  of  ours.  Let  him  but  follow  the  dictates  of  his 
own  genius,  and  I  will  venture  to  say,  that  the  Irish  will  have 
no  reason  to  envy  the  government  of  England; — at  least  he 
may  be  assured  of  our  hearty  endeavours  and  concurrence  to 

*  The  Hon.  Charles  Tcwnshend,  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer,  then 
lately  dead.  Edit 

Vol.  II.  Z 


178  MISCELLANEOUS 

prevent  any  ill  blood,  upon  that  score,  between  the  two  na- 
tions. 

sulky,  in  an  attitude  copied  from  Mr.  Sparks*. 
I  was  quiet  enough  at  Raneham,  when  I  was  told  I  was 
Lord  Lieutenant  of  Ireland.  For  a  man  to  be  told  that  he 
commands  a  kingdom  or  an  army,  when  he  dreams  of  no 
such  matter,  forms  a  situation  too  difficult  for  such  a  head  as 
mine.  My  Lords,  I  speak  from  experience.  Upon  another 
occasion,  indeed,  I  found  the  business  done  to  my  hand,  by 
a  person  who  shall  be  nameless.  But  alas!  I  find  things  in  a 
very  different  condition  at  present.  I  perceive  that  I  am  no 
more  a  statesman  than  a  general,  and  that  my  predecessor, 
instead  of  doing  any  thing  himself,  has  only  bequeathed  to  me 
the  disgrace  of  not  being  able  to  perform,  what  he  was  so 
vain  or  so  simple  as  to  promise. — Then  to  be  left  to  my  own 
guidance! — If  my  poor  dear  brother  had  lived,  you  would 
not  have  treated  me  so  scurviiy. — Surely  your  Lordships 
forget  that  these  are  a  wild  barbarous  people,  and  how  dan- 
gerous it  is  to  trust  to  their  respect  for  the  person  of  a  Lord 
Lieutenant. — In  short,  my  Lords,  if  you  do  not  think  proper 
to  grant  them  a  habeas  corpus,  at  least  grant  me  one,  and 
as  soon  as  possible.  I  shall  never  be  easy  until  I  find  my  body 
once  more  before  you.  In  the  mean  time,  I  believe  I  had 
best  follow  my  Lord  Bute's  advice. 

OMNES. 

Lord  Bute!  It  must  be  followed.  What  is  it? 

SULKY. 

To  carry  over  with  me  a  battalion  of  gallant  disinterested 
Highlanders,  who,  if  there  should  be  any  disturbance,  may 
take  to  their  broad  swords.  Where  plunder's  to  be  had, 
they'll  take  to  any  thing.  I  have  seen  it  tried  with  astonish- 
ing success:  and  sure  never  was  a  man  in  such  a  taking  as  I 
was. 

A  comedian,  thus  characterised  in  Churchill's  Rosciad: 
"  Sparks  at  his  glass  sat  comfortably  down, 
To  scp'rate  frown  from  smile,  and  smile  from  frown."  Eon 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  179 

CAUTION. 

The  expedient,  I  confess,  is  admirable;  but  pray,  my 
Lord,  how  do  you  intend  to  provide  for  all  these  sweet- 
blooded  children? 

SULKY. 

My  secretary  has  got  a  list  of  the  employments  in  Ireland, 
and  assures  me  that  I  shall  be  able  to  provide  for  as  many 
more. 

jefferyes,  growing  peevish  and  impatient. 

To  conclude,  my  Lords.  If  what  I  have  just  now  had  the 
honour  of  throwing  out  should  not  be  consistent  with  the 
noble  Lord's  ideas,  or  with  his  plan  of  government,  he  has 
my  free  consent  to  adopt  a  very  different  system.  Instead  of 
permitting  the  Irish  to  live  without  any  law  whatever,  let 
him  govern  them  by  Edicts  from  the  castle.  For  my  own 
part,  I  hate  medium  in  government.  I  am  all  for  anarchy,  or 
all  for  tyranny.  The  Irish  privy  council  are  as  good  judges 
of  the  plea  of  necessity,  and  I  dare  say  as  ready  to  make  use 
of  it  as  any  other  council.  You  have  my  authority  and  ex- 
ample, my  Lord,  in  support  of  suspending  powers;  and  pro- 
vided you  are  a  little  cautious  in  the  object  of  your  first 
experiment,  you  may  carry  this  wholesome  maxim  to  as  great 
a  length  in  Ireland,  as,  with  the  blessing  of  God!  (turning 
up  his  eyes  to  heaven)  I  intend  to  do  here. 

A  dog  barks,  and  weakens  Tilbury,  tvho  starts  up. 

TILBURY. 

Zounds,  my  Lord,  do  you  keep  bull-dogs  in  your  house? 

MALAGRIDA. 

No,  my  Lord;  it  is  but  a  mongrel.  Your  true  English 
bull-dog  never  quits  his  hold;  but  this  cur  plays  fast  and 
loose,  just  as  I  bid  him:  he  worries  a  man  one  moment,  and 
fawns  upon  him  the  next*.  But,  my  Lords,  I  hope  you  are 
not  going  away  before  I  have  finished  my  speech.  It  is  a 
masterpiece,  I'll  promise  you,  and  has  cost  me  infinite  labour 
to  get  by  heart. 

*  The  person  here  alluded  to  is  not  known.  Edit. 


180  MISCELLANEOUS 

TILBURY. 

No,  damn  me,  'tis  a  little  too  late,  I  thank  you.  Aside. — ■ 
This  silly  puppy  takes  me  for  his  schoolmaster,  and  fancies  I 
am  obliged  to  hear  him  repeat  his  task  to  me.  Exit. 

CAUTION. 

Pray  spare  me,  my  Lord;  you  know  my  friendship:  I 
would  stay  to  hear  you  if  it  were  possible.  Aside. — I  see 
this  will  never  do;  so  I'll  e'en  try  to  renew  with  the  Rocking- 
hams.  Exit  talking  to  himself. 

JEFFERYES. 

Change  of  place,  my  Lord,  as  well  as  change  of  party,  is 
the  indefeasible  right  of  human  nature*.  It  is  a  part  of  the 
natural  liberty  of  man,  which  I  am  determined  to  make  use 
of  immediately.  Exit. 

MALAGRIDA  to  SULKY. 

Won't  you  hear  me,  my  Lord? 

SULKY. 

It  is  unnecessary,  my  dear  Lord.  I  see  your  meaning 
written  in  your  face.  Aside. — What  the  devil  shall  I  do  now? 
A  sick  man  might  as  well  expect  to  be  cured  by  a  consulta- 
tion of  quack  doctors;  they  talk,  and  debate,  and  wrangle, 
and  the  patient  expires.  However,  I  shall  at  least  have  the 
satisfaction  of  drawing  their  pictures.  I  believe  the  best  thing 
I  can  do  will  be  to  consult  with  my  Lord  George  Sackville. 
His  character  is  known  and  respected  in  Ireland  as  much  as 
it  is  here;  and  I  know  he  loves  to  be  stationed  in  the  rear  as 
well  as  myself.  Exit. 

MALAGRIDA  Solus. 

What  a  negro's  skin  must  I  have,  if  this  shallow  fellow 

could  see  my  meaning  in  my  face! Now  will  I  skulk  away 

to ,  where  I  will  betray  or  misrepresent  every  syllable  I 

have  heard,  ridicule  their  persons,  blacken  their  characters, 
and  fawn  upon  the  man  who  hears  me,  until  I  have  an  op- 
portunity of  biting  even  him  to  the  heart.  Exit], 

*  Lord  Camden  had  been  chief  justice  of  the  Common  Pleas,  was  now 
chancellor,  and  afterwards  president  of  the  council.  Edit. 
f  A  writer  in  the  Public  Advertiser,  in  a  pretended  real  account  of  what 

passed 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  181 


LETTER  VIII. 

TO    THE    PRINTEH    OF    THE    PUBLIC    ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  31  Oct.  1767. 

Your  correspondent,  who  has  furnished  you  with  What 
he  calls  a  true  account  of  a  grand  council  in  Hill  Street,  does 
not  appear  to  me  to  have  done  much  service  to  his  patrons. 
The  former  dialogue  had  at  least  some  pleasantry  (though 
not  enough,  I  dare  say,  to  draw  a  smile  from  the  parties  con- 
cerned) and  perhaps  in  marking  the  characters,  a  little  too 

passed  at  the  council,  having  charged  Mr.  Burke  with  being  the  author  of 
this  satire,  and  as  the  letters  of  Junius  were,  during  their  publication,  at- 
tributed to  that  gentleman,  we  shall  extract  such  part  of  it  as  more  imme- 
diately relates  to  him. 

The  council  are  supposed  to  have  discussed  the  instructions  to  be  given 
to  the  Lord  Lieutenant,  and  the  Lord  President  is  then  made  to  address 
them,  as  follows: 

President. 
If  nothing  further  occurs  to  your  Excellency,  nor  to  you,  my  Lords, 
upon  the  present  business,  it  will  be  time,  I  believe,  for  us  to  break  up. 
(As  the  Council  are  rising,  a  Secretary  enters.) 
Secretary. 
My  Lords,  there  is  a  person  without,  who  says  he  has  business  of  a  prv 
vate  nature,  and  earnestly  desires  to  be  admitted. 

S.  8. 

Do  you  know  who  the  man  is?  Are  you  acquainted  with  his  person? 

Secretary. 
I  am,  my  Lord:  but  as  he  desires,  in  case  your  Lordships  do  not  think 
fit  to  see  him,  that  his  visit  may  be  kept  a  secret,  I  beg  to  be  excused  men- 
tioning his  name:  I  believe  he  is  personally  known  to  every  one  present. 

Omnes. 

Let  him  come  in. 

(The  Secretary  goes  out,  and  returns  introducing  a  tall,  ill-looking  Jelhiv,  in  a 

shabby  black  coat.) 

Lord  President. 

What  are  your  commands  with  us,  Mr.  Brazen? 

Brazen. 
The  business,  my  Lords,  that  h?s  brought  me  thus  unexpectedly  into 
your  company,  will,  I  am  persuaded,  excuse  the  unseasonableness  of  my 
intrusion.  I  flatter  myself  I  am  known,  well  known,  to  every  one  of  your 

Lordships. 


182  MISCELLANEOUS 

much  truth.  But  this  sorrowful  rogue  is  too  dull  to  be  witty, 
and  as  for  truth,  I  suppose  it  would  neither  suit  his  argu- 
ment nor  his  disposition.  His  raillery  upon  a  shabby  black 
coat  is  indeed  delicate  to  an  extreme;  but  he  forgets  that  wit 
and  abilities  have  as  little  connection  with  rich  clothes  as  they 
have  with  great  places,  and  that  a  man  may  wear  a  fine  suit, 

Lordships.  My  part  has  not  been  an  obscure  one:  I  may  say,  with  the  sub- 
iimest  of  all  poets, 

Not  to  know  me,  {jfc. 

In  short,  my  Lords,  I  think  I  have  trode  the  public  stage  of  the  world 
with  some  degree  of  applause,  with  a  pen  that  can  blacken  the  whitest 
character,  and  a  tongue  that  can  dash  the  maturest  councils,  I  hold  myself 
equipped  at  all  points  for  the  offices  of  party.  One  in  particular  of  this 
Right  Honourable  Company  can  bear  testimony  to  my  performances. — 
What  need  of  more  words? 

J  have  done  the  state  some  service,  and  they  know  it. 

But,  my  Lords,  to  come  to  the  point  at  once. — No  man,  I  trust,  in  these 
times,  serves  the  state  for  nothing;  yet  such  has  been  my  pride  or  folly 
(call  it  which  you  will),  that  I  have  got  nothing  for  my  pains  but  empty 
praise.  Now,  my  Lords,  this  diet  begins  to  grow  too  thin  for  my  stomach. 
I  must  own  I  expected  to  have  reaped  good  interest  for  my  self-denial; 
but  things  have  not  come  round  as  I  looked  for;  the  revolutions  in  govern- 
ment have  not  kept  pace  with  those  that  have  been  made  in  my  fortune; 
and  the  late  unprosperous  fatal  negotiation  has  broken  all  my  measures, 
and  thrown  me  at  length  upon  your  Lordships'  mercy,  the  humblest  of 
your  petitioners. 

Lord  President. 

Will  your  Lordships  have  the  patience  to  hear  this  prating  fellow  any 
longer? 

Lord  Camden. 

Mr.  Brazen,  you  will  please  to  contract  your  discourse  as  much  as  the 
matter  will  admit.  A  great  deal  that  you  have  now  been  relating  to  us 
might,  in  my  humble  opinion,  have  been  spared  without  any  prejudice  to 
your  petition,  or  to  your  principles.  If  you  have  any  real  business,  worthy 
being  communicated  to  this  company,  we  shall  wish  you  to  let  us  hear  it 
without  further  preface. 

Brazen. 

I  should  have  thought  that  your  Lordship,  at  least  in  the  course  of  your 
high  office,  had  been  more  patient  under  circumlocution,  than  to  correct 
me  for  the  little  I  have  now  made  use  of;  however,  not  to  incur  your  dis- 
pleasure, 1  will  come  at  once  to  the  point.  Your  Lordships  see  these  two 
papers.  This  in  my  left  hand,  my  Lords,  contains  the  most  important  in- 
telligence that  was  ever  directed  to  ministers.  It  is,  my  Lords,  the  whole 
scheme  and  plan  of  opposition,  which  you  are  shortly  to  encounter,  con- 
certed, modelled  and  digested,  according  to  rules  logical,  metaphysical 

and 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  183 

or  figure  as  a  secretary  of  state,  without  a  single  grain  of 
either.  But,  Sir,  if  facts  asserted  are  notoriously  false,  the 
assertion  of  them  can  do  no  mischief;  if  notoriously  true, 
they  are  beyond  the  reach  of  his  wit,  if  he  had  any,  to  palliate, 
or  of  his  modesty,  which  I  think  is  upon  a  par  with  his  wit, 
to  deny. 

and  mathematical.  It  is  the  most  beautiful,  as  well  as  the  sublimest  system 
of  politics,  that  ever  sprung  from  the  brain  of  man.  I  am  here  ready  to 
consign  it  over  to  your  Lordships,  upon  the  terms  and  conditions  annexed 
to  it,  and  with  it  myself,  my  faith,  my  friendship,  and  my  conscience. 

Witness  that  here  lago  doth  give  up 

The  execution  of  his  -wit,  hands,  heart, 

To  this  great  Council's  service. 
{The  ivhoie  oftlie  Council  rise  at  once,  and  the  High  Treasurer  speaks.) 
High  Treasurer. 
My  Lords,  I  see  the  indignation  with  which  you  receive  this  proposal, 
and  the  just  contempt  with  which  you  are  about  to  treat  this  most  infa- 
mous proponent.  But  I  beseech  you,  let  what  1  shall  now  say  to  him  serve 
for  his  dismission,  and  hold  him  unworthy  of  any  further  reply.  We  reject 
your  offer,  Sir,  with  the  most  consummate  disdain.  Unfaithful  to  your 
own  party,  we  scorn  to  admit  you  into  ours;  and  though  the  bounty  of  the 
council  holds  forth  rewards  for  merit,  we  have  neither  the  will  nor  the 
means  to  bribe  and  seduce  a  villain.  Amongst  those  gentleman,  whom  you 
thus  offer  to  abandon,  there  are  many  for  whose  persons  and  characters 
we  have  the  most  absolute  regard.  Whatever  their  councils  may  be,  and 
however  hostile  to  our  measures,  we  scorn  to  look  into  them  by  any  indi- 
rect means.  Friends  to  the  liberties  of  our  country,  and  protectors  of  its 
constitution,  we  wish  not  to  destroy  opposition  by  the  force  of  corruption, 
we  seek  only  to  confute  it  by  the  prevalence  of  reason;  every  proposal  that 
has  the  public  welfare  for  its  object,  from  whatever  party  it  springs,  shall 
have  our  support;  and  while  we  have  truth  and  justice  on  our  side,  wd 
have  nothing  to  apprehend  from  opposition,  though  all  your  genius,  and 
(which  is  more)  all  your  ill  nature  shall  be  drawn  forth  in  its  support. 

Brazen. 
'Tis  very  well,  my  Lords;  'tis  mighty  well;  you  have  rejected  the  olive 
branch,  take  then  the  sword. — This  paper,  my  Lords,  in  my  right  hand, 
holds  a  mine  that  shall  blow  you  into  the  air.  It  is  a  libel  wrote  in  gall. 
Your  present  consultations  are  the  subject;  and  every  member  here  present 
shall  have  a  seat,  except  I  think  fit  to  dispatch  your  unimportant  Grace  to 
Newmarket.  For  you,  my  lord  president,  I  shall  characterise  you  under 
the  name  of  Tilbury,  because  when  that  man  kept  an  inn  at  Bagshot,  you 
put  up  at  his  house.  To  my  Lord  Camden,  I  shall  bequeath  the  odious 
'lame  of  Jefferyes,  by  the  old  derivatory  rule  of  Lucus  a  non  lucendo.  Cau- 
'i'on  xiithout  foresight  shall  be  your  title,  Sir;  and  your  noble  colleague's, 

Malagrida. 


184  MISCELLANEOUS 

Now,  Sir,  if  I  were  not  afraid  of  distressing  him  too  much, 
I  would  ask  him  whether  Lord  Townshend,  did  not  openly 
complain,  only  three  days  before  his  departure,  that  he  could 
not,  by  the  warmest  solicitations,  prevail  on  the  ministry,  to 
agree  upon  any  one  system  of  instructions  for  him;  that  he 
was  left  entirely  to  himself;  and  that  the  ministry  could  not 
be  persuaded  to  pay  the  smallest  attention  either  to  his  situ- 
ation or  to  that  of  the  country  he  was  sent  to  govern.  Did  he 
not  say  this  without  reserve  to  every  man  he  met,  even  in  pub- 
lic court,  and  with  all  possible  marks  of  resentment  and  dis- 
gust? I  would  advise  your  second  correspondent  not  to  deny 
these  known  facts;  for  if  he  does,  I  will  assuredly  produce 
some  proofs  of  them,  which  will  gall  his  patrons  a  little  more 
than  any  thing  they  have  seen  already.  Let  one  of  them  only 
recollect  what  sort  of  conversation  very  lately  passed  between 
him  and  the  Lord  Lieutenant,  how  he  was  pressed,  and  how 
he  evaded.  But  the  facts,  of  which  the  public  are  already 
possessed,  sufficiently  speak  for  themselves,  and  the  nation 
wants  no  further  proof  of  the  weakness,  ignorance,  irresolu- 
tion, and  spirit  of  discord,  which  reign  triumphant  in  this 
illustrious  divan,  who  have  dared  to  take  upon  them  the  con- 
duct of  an  empire. 

One  question  more,  and  I  have  done.  Did  it  become  him, 
who  has  undertaken  the  defence  of  a  whole  ministry,  to  for- 
get one  of  the  principal  characters  of  the  piece?  Why  should 
he  omit  the  dog?  This  mongrel,  that  barks,  and  bites,  and 
iawns,  has  nevertheless  a  share  in  council,  and,  in  the  opi- 
nion of  the  best  judges,  cuts  full  as  good  a  figure  in  it  as  his 
master. 

Here,  who  waits  there? — O  charming  antithesis!  O  po- 
lished language!  and  equally  fit  for  the  noble  Lord  who 
speaks,  or  for  the  footman  who  hears  it. 

Malagrida;  when  I  have  thought  of  any  reason  for  either,  I  mav  give  it 
you.  To  your  Excellency,  by  way  of  contrast,  I  decree  the  name  of  Bout- 
deville  or  Sulky. 

S.  S. 
Here;  who  waits  there?  Take  this  fellow  and  put  him  out  of  the  house. 

Exit  Brazen  befroeen  tspo  footmen. 


• 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.         185 


LETTER  IX. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 

Mr.  Printer,  5  Dec.  1767. 

There  are  a  party  of  us  who,  for  our  amusement,  have 
established  a  kind  of  political  club.  We  mean  to  give  no 
offence  whatever  to  any  body  in  our  debates.  The  following 
is  a  mere  jeu  tfesprit,  which  I  threw  out  at  one  of  our  late 
meetings,  and  is  at  your  service,  if  you  think  it  will  afford 
the  least  entertainment  to  your  readers*. 

I  am,  &c. 

Y.  Z. 

Mr.  President.  The  condition  of  this  country,  at  the  con- 
clusion of  the  last  spring,  was  such  as  gave  us  strong  reason 
to  expect,  that  not  a  single  moment  of  the  interval  between 
that  period  and  our  winter  meeting  would  be  lost  or  misem- 
ployed. We  had  a  right  to  expect,  that  gentlemen,  who 
thought  themselves  equal  to  advise  about  the  government  of 
the  nation,  would,  during  this  period,  have  applied  all  their 
attention,  and  exerted  all  their  efforts  to  discover  some  effec- 
tual remedy  for  the  national  distress.  For  my  own  part,  I 
had  no  doubt  that,  when  we  again  met,  the  committee  would 

*  As  the  debates  in  Parliament  were  not  allowed  at  this  period  to  be 
given  verbatim,  they  were  usually  detailed  to  the  public  under  the  guise 
of  fictitious  assemblies  and  opinions,  through  the  medium  of  imaginary 
characters;  and  under  this  form  the  writer  undertakes  to  canvass  the  mea- 
sures of  government,  on  the  opening  of  the  Session  of  Parliament  in  No- 
vember, 1767.  The  satire  however  was  at  first  so  severe,  and  at  the  same 
time  so  applicable,  that  the  printer  was  half  afraid  to  insert  it;  whence, 
after  duly  expressing  his  thanks  for  the  honour  which  he  felt  was  con- 
ferred upon  the  paper  "by  the  correspondence  of  this  masterly  writer," 
he  made  the  following  apology  the  next  day  for  its  non-appearance.  "We 
most  heartily  wish  to  oblige  our  valuable  correspondent  C,  but  his  last 
favour  is  of  so  delicate  a  nature,  that  we  dare  not  insert  it,  unless  we  are 
permitted  to  make  such  changes  in  certain  expressions,  as  may  take  oft' 
the  immediate  offence." 

This  request  -appears  to  have  been  complied  with:  and  hence  the 
abruptness  that  will  be  found  in  several  of  the  passages  of  the  article  as  it 
was  at  length  printed^  and  the  palpable  omissions  in  others.  Edit. 

Vol.  II.  2  A 


186  MISCELLANEOUS 

have  been  ready  to  lay  before  us  some  plan  for  a  speedy  re- 
lief of  the  people,  founded  upon  such  certain  lights  and  in- 
formations as  they  alone  are  able  to  procure,  and  digested 
with  an  accuracy  proportioned  to  the  time  they  have  had  to 
consider  of  it:  But  if  these  were  our  expectations,  if  these 
were  the  hopes  conceived  by  the  whole  society,  how  griev- 
ously are  we  disappointed!  After  an  interval  of  so  many 
months,  instead  of  being  told  that  a  plan  is  formed,  or  that 
measures  are  taken,  or,  at  least,  that  materials  have  been 
diligently  collected,  upon  which  some  scheme  might  be 
founded  for  preserving  us  from  famine;  we  see  that  this  pro- 
vident committee,  these  careful  providers,  are  of  opinion, 
they  have  sufficiently  acquitted  themselves  of  their  duty,  by 
advising  the  chair  to  recommend  the  matter  once  more  to 
our  consideration,  and  so  endeavouring  to  relieve  them- 
selves from  the  burthen  and  censure  which  must  fall  some- 
where, by  throwing  it  upon  the  society.  God  knows  in  what 
manner  they  have  been  employed  for  these  four  months  past. 
It  appears  too  plainly  they  have  done  but  little  good. — I  hope 
they  have  not  been  busied  in  doing  mischief;  and  though 
they  have  neglected  every  useful,  every  necessary  occupa- 
tion, I  hope  their  leisure  has  not  been  spent  *  *  *  in 
spreading  corruption  through  the  people. 

Sir,  I  readily  assent  to  the  laborious  panegyric  which  the 
gentleman  upon  the  lower  bench  has  been  pleased  to  make 
of  a  very  able  member  of  the  committee,  whom  we  have 
lately  lost*.  No  man  had  a  higher  opinion  of  his  talents  than 
I  had;  but  as  to  his  having  conceived  any  plan  for  remedy- 
ing the  general  distress  about  provisions,  (as  the  gentleman 
would  have  us  understand)  I  see  many  reasons  for  suspect- 
ing that  it  could  never  have  been  the  case.  If  that  gentleman 
had  formed  such  a  plan,  or  if  he  had  collected  such  mate- 
rials as  we  are  now  told  he  had,  I  think  it  is  impossible  but 
that,  in  the  course  of  so  many  months,  some  knowledge  or 
intimation  of  it  must  have  been  communicated  to  the  gen- 

*  The  Right  Honourable  Charles  Townsheml,  chancellor  of  the  exche- 
quer, who  died  September  4th,  1767,  and  was  succeeded  in  that  office  by 
the  Duke  of  Grafton.  Edit. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  187 

tlemen  who  acted  with  him,  and  who  were  united  with  him, 
not  less  by  friendship  than  by  office.  He  was  not  a  reserved 
man,  and  surely,  Sir,  his  colleagues  who  had  every  oppor- 
tunity of  hearing  his  sentiments  in  the  committee,  in  private 
conversation,  and  in  this  society,  must  have  been  strangely 
inattentive  to  a  man,  whom  they  so  much  admired,  or  un- 
commonly dull,  if  they  could  not  retain  the  smallest  memory 
of  his  opinions  on  matters  on  which  they  ought  naturally 
to  have  consulted  him  often.  If  he  had  even  drawn  the 
loosest  outlines  of  a  plan,  is  it  conceivable  that  all  traces  of 
it  should  be  so  soon  extinguished?  To  me,  Sir,  such  an  ab- 
solute oblivion  seems  wholly  incredible.  Yet  admitting  the 
fact  for  a  moment,  what  an  humiliating  confession  is  it  for  a 
committee,  who  have  undertaken  to  advise  about  the  con- 
ducting of  an  empire,  to  declare  to  this  society,  that  by  the 
death  of  a  single  man,  all  projects  for  the  public  good  are  at 
an  end,  all  plans  are  lost,  and  that  this  loss  is  irreparable, 
since  there  is  not  a  leader  surviving,  who  is  in  any  measure 
capable  of  filling  up  the  dreadful  vacuum? 

But  I  shall  quit  this  subject  for  the  present,  and  as  we  are 
to  consider  of  an  answer  in  return  to  the  advice  from  the 
chair,  I  beg  leave  to  mention  some  observations  occurring 
to  me  upon  the  advice  itself,  which  I  think  I  am  warranted, 
by  established  practice  of  this  society,  to  treat  merely  as  the 
advice  of  the  foreman  of  the  committee*. 

*  The  following  are  the  passages  in  the  King's  speech  more  immediate- 
ly alluded  to  in  this  pretended  discussion  of  it. 

"  Nothing  in  the  present  situation  of  affairs  abroad  gives  me  reason  to 
apprehend  that  you  will  be  prevented  by  any  interruption  of  the  public  tran- 
quillity, from  fixing  your  whole  attention  upon  such  points  as  concern  the 
internal  welfare  and  prosperity  of  my  people. 

"  Among  these  objects  of  a  domestic  nature,  none  can  demand  a  more 
speedy  or  more  serious  attention,  than  what  regards  the  high  price  of  corn, 
which,  neither  the  salutary  laws  passed  in  the  last  Sessions  of  Parliament, 
nor  the  produce  of  the  late  harvest,  have  yet  been  able  so  far  to  reduce, 
as  to  give  sufficient  relief  to  the  distresses  of  the  poorer  sort  of  my  peo- 
ple. Your  late  residence  in  your  several  counties  must  have  enabled  you 
to  judge  whether  any  further  provisions  can  be  made,  conducive  to  the 
attainment  of  so  desirable  an  end. 

"  The  necessity  of  improving  the  present  general  tranquillity  to  the 

great 


188  MISCELLANEOUS 

The  chief  and  only  pretended  merit  of  the  present  ad- 
vice is,  that  it  contains  no  extraordinary  matter,  that  it  can 
do  no  harm,  and  consequently  that  an  answer  of  applause 
upon  such  advice,  is  but  a  mere  compliment  to  the  chair, 
from  which  no  inconvenience  can  arise,  nor  consequence  be 
drawn.  Now,  Sir,  supposing  this  to  be  a  true  representation 
of  the  advice,  I  cannot  think  it  does  the  committee  any  great 
honour,  nor  can  I  agree  that  to  applaud  the  chair  for  such 
a'dvice  would  be  attended  with  no  inconvenience.  Although 
an  answer  of  applause  may  not  enter  into  the  approbation  of 
particular  measures,  yet  it  must  unavoidably  convey  a  gene- 
ral acknowledgment,  at  least,  that  things  are,  upon  the  whole, 
as  they  should  be,  and  that  we  are  satisfied  with  the  repre- 
sentation of  them,  which  we  have  received  from  the  chair, 
But  this,  Sir,  I  am  sure,  would  be  an  acknowledgment  in- 
consistent with  truth,  and  inconsistent  with  our  own  interior 
conviction,  unless  we  are  contented  to  accept  of  whatever 
the  committee  please  to  tell  us,  and  wilfully  shut  our  eyes  to 
any  other  species  of  evidence. 

As  to  the  harmlessness  of  the  advice,  I  must  for  my  own 
part  regret  the  times,  when  advices  from  the  chair  deserved 
another  name  than  that  of  innocent,  when  they  contained 
some  real  and  effectual  information  to  this  society, — some 
express  account  of  measures  already  taken,  or  some  positive 
plan  of  future  measures,  for  our  consideration.  Permit  me, 
Sir,  to  divide  the  present  advice  into  three  heads,  and  a 
very  little  attention  will  demonstrate  how  far  it  is  from  aim- 
ing at  that  spirit  of  business  and  energy,  which  formerly 
animated  the  advice  from  the  chair:  You  will  see,  under  this 
division,  that  the  small  portion  of  matter  contained  in  it  is 
of  such  a  nature,  and  so  stated,  as  to  preclude  all  possibility 

great  purpose  of  maintaining  the  strength,  the  reputation  and  the  prospe- 
rity of  this  country,  ought  to  be  ever  before  your  eyes.  To  render  your 
deliberations  for  that  purpose  successful,  endeavour  to  cultivate  a  spirit  of 
harmony  among  yourselves.  My  concurrence  in  whatever  will  promote 
the  happiness  of  my  people,  you  may  alway  depend  upon:  and  in  that  light, 
I  shall  be  desirous  of  encouraging  union  among  all  those,  who  wish  well 
to  their  country."  Edit. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  189 

or  necessity  of  deliberation  in  this  place.  The  first  article  is, 
that  every  thing  is  quiet  abroad.  The  truth  of  this  assertion, 
when  confirmed  by  an  enquiry,  which  I  hope  this  society 
will  make  into  it,  would  give  me  the  sincerest  satisfaction; 
for  certainly  there  never  was  a  time  when  the  distress  and 
confusion  of  the  interior  circumstances  of  this  nation  made 
it  more  absolutely  necessary  to  be  upon  secure  and  peace- 
able terms  with  our  neighbours:  But  I  am  a  little  inclined 
to  suspect,  and  indeed  it  is  an  opinion  too  generally  receiv- 
ed, that  this  appearance  of  good  understanding  with  our 
neighbours  deserves  the  name  of  stagnation  rather  than  tran- 
quillity; that  it  is  owing  not  so  much  to  the  success  of  our 
negotiations  abroad,  as  to  the  absolute  and  entire  suspension 
of  them  for  a  very  considerable  time.  Consuls,  envoys  and 
ambassadors,  it  is  true,  have  been  regularly  appointed,  but, 
instead  of  repairing  to  their  stations,  have,  in  the  most  scan- 
dalous manner,  loitered  at  home;  as  if  they  had  either  no 
business  to  do,  or  were  afraid  of  exposing  themselves  to  the 
resentment  or  derision  of  the  court,  to  which  they  were  des- 
tined. Thus  have  all  our  negotiations  with  Portugal  been 
conducted,  and  thus  have  they  been  dropped.  Thus  hath  the 
Manilla  Ransom,  that  once  favourite  theme,  that  perpetual 
echo  with  some  gentlemen,  been  consigned  to  oblivion.  The 
slightest  remembrance  of  it  must  not  now  be  revived.  At  this 
rate,  Sir,  foreign  powers  may  well  permit  us  to  be  quiet;  it 
would  be  equally  useless  and  unreasonable  in  them  to  inter- 
rupt a  tranquillity,  which  we  submit  to  purchase  upon  such 
inglorious  terms,  or  to  quarrel  with  an  humble  passive  go- 
vernment, which  hath  neither  spirit  to  assert  a  right,  nor  to 
resent  an  injury.  In  the  distracted,  broken,  miserable  state 
of  our  interior  government,  our  enemies  find  a  consolation 
and  remedy  for  all  that  they  suffered  in  the  course  of  the 
war,  and  our  councils  amply  revenge  them  for  the  successes 
of  our  arms. 

The  second  article  of  the  advice  contains  a  recommenda- 
tion of  what  concerns  the  dearness  of  corn,  to  our  immediate 
and  earnest  deliberation.  No  man,  Sir,  is  more  ready  than 


X90  MISCELLANEOUS 

myself,  as  an  individual,  to  shew  all  possible  deference  to 
the  respectable  authority  under  which  the  advice  from  the 
chair  is  delivered;  but  as  a  member  of  this  society,  it  is  my 
right,  nay,  I  must  think  myself  bound  to  consider  it  as  the 
advice  of  the  foreman  of  the  committee;  and,  upon  this  prin- 
ciple, if  I  would  understand  it  rightly,  or  even  do  justice  to 
the  text,  I  must  carry  the  foreman's  comment  along  with 
me.  But  what,  Sir,  has  been  the  comment  upon  the  recom- 
mendation made  to  us  from  the  chair?  Has  it  amounted  to 
any  more  than*  a  positive  assurance  that  all  the  endeavours 
of  the  committee,  to  form  a  plan  for  relieving  the  poor  in  the 
article  of  provisions,  have  proved  ineffectual?  That  they  nei- 
ther have  a  plan,  nor  materials  of  sufficient  information  to 
lay  before  the  society,  and  that  the  object  itself  is,  in  their 
apprehension,  absolutely  unattainable.  If  this  be  the  fact,  if 
it  be  really  true  that  the  foreman,  at  the  same  time  that  he 
advises  the  chair  to  recommend  a  matter  to  the  earnest  de- 
liberation of  the  society,  confesses  in  his  comment  that  this 
very  matter  is  beyond  the  reach  of  this  society,  what  infer- 
ence must  we  necessarily  draw  from  such  a  text,  and  from 
such  an  illustration?  I  will  not  venture  to  determine  what 
may  be  the  real  motive  of  this  strange  conduct  and  incon- 
sistent language;  but  I  will  boldly  pronounce  that  it  carries 
with  it  a  most  odious  appearance  #  *  *  *  #  #  *# 
With  respect  to  the  third  and  last  head,  into  which  the 
advice  may  be  divided,  I  readily  agree  that  there  is  a  cause 
of  discord  somewhere;  where  it  is  I  will  not  pretend  to  say. 
That  it  does  exist  is  certain;  and  I  much  doubt  whether  it 
is  likely  to  be  removed  by  any  measures  taken  by  the  pre- 
sent committee.  As  to  vague  and  general  recommendations 
to  us  to  maintain  unanimity  amongst  us,  I  must  say  I  think 
they  are  become  of  late  years  too  flat  and  stale  to  bear  being 
repeated:  that  such  are  the  kind  sentiments  and  wishes  of 
our  chairman,  I  am  far  from  doubting;  but  when  I  consider 
it  as  the  language  of  the  foreman,  as  a  foreman's  recommen- 
dation, I  cannot  help  thinking  it  a  vain  and  idle  parade  of 
words  without  meaning.  Is  it  in  their  own  conduct  that  we 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  191 

are  to  look  for  an  example  of  this  boasted  union?  Shall  we 
discover  any  trace  of  it  in  their  broken,  distracted  councils, 
their  public  disagreements  and  private  animosities.  Is  it  not 
notorious  that  they  only  subsist  by  creating  divisions  among 
others?  That  their  plan  is  to  separate  party  from  party? 
friend  from  friend?  brother  from  brother?  Is  not  their 
very  motto  Divide  et  imperaf  When  such  men  advise  us  to 
unite,  what  opinion  must  we  have  of  their  sincerity?  In  the 
present  instance,  however,  the  advice  is  particularly  farci- 
cal. When  we  are  told  that  affairs  abroad  are  perfectly 
quiet,  consequently  that  it  is  unnecessary  for  us  to  take  any 
notice  of  them;  when  we  are  told  that  there  is  indeed  a  dis- 
tress at  home,  but  beyond  the  reach  of  this  society's  councils 
to  remedy;  to  have  unanimity  recommended  us  in  the  same 
breath,  is,  in  my  opinion,  something  lower  than  ridiculous. 
If  the  two  first  propositions  be  true,  in  the  name  of  wonder, 
upon  what  are  we  to  debate?  Upon  what  is  it  possible  for 
us  to  disagree?  On  one  point  our  advice  is  not  wanted;  on 
the  other  it  is  useless:  but  it  seems  it  will  be  highly  agree- 
able to  the  committee  to  have  us  unite,  in  approving  of  their 
conduct;  and  if  we  have  concord  enough  amongst  ourselves 
to  keep  in  unison  with  them  and  their  measures,  I  dare  say 
that  all  the  committee's  purposes,  aimed  at  by  the  recom- 
mendation, will  be  fully  answered,  and  entirely  to  their  satis- 
faction. But  this  is  a  sort  of  union  which  I  hope  never  will, 
which  I  am  satisfied  never  can,  prevail  in  a  free  society  like 
ours.  While  we  are  freemen,  we  may  disagree;  but  when 
we  unite  upon  the  terms  recommended  to  us  by  the  commit- 
tee, we  must  be  slaves. 


LETTER  X. 


TO  THE   PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  19  Dec.  176" 

Ir  there  be  any  man  in  this  country,  who  thinks  that  the 
combination  lately  entered  into  at  Boston,  is  merely  a  matter 
«f  interior  economy,  by  which  we  are  either  not  essentially 


192  MISCELLANEOUS 

affected,  or  of  which  we  have  no  right  to  complain,  I  may 
safely  pronounce,  that  that  man  knows  nothing  of  the  condi- 
tion of  the  British  commerce,  nor  of  the  condition  of  the 
British  finances.  It  might  be  happy  for  us,  if  we  were  all  in 
the  same  state  of  ignorance.  To  foresee  a  danger,  when 
every  chance  of  avoiding  it  hath  been  wilfully  cut  off,  is  but 
a  painful  and  useless  sagacity,  and  to  shut  our  eyes  to  inevit- 
able ruin,  serves  at  least  to  keep  the  mind  a  little  longer  in  a 
thoughtless  security. 

In  this  way  I  imagine  any  man  must  reason,  who  is  insen- 
sible of  the  consequence  of  the  successive  enterprizes  of  the 
colonies  against  Great  Britain,  or  who  beholds  them  with  in- 
difference. I  will  not  suppose  that  the  bulk  of  the  British 
people  is  sunk  into  so  criminal  a  state  of  stupidity;  that  there 
does  exist  a  particular  set  of  men,  base  and  treacherous 
enough  to  have  enlisted  under  the  banners  of  a  lunatic*,  to 
whom  they  sacrificed  their  honour,  their  conscience,  and  their 
country,  in  order  to  carry  a  point  of  party,  and  to  gratify  a 
personal  rancour,  is  a  truth  too  melancholy  and  too  certain 
for  Great  Britain.  These  were  the  wretched  ministers,  who 
served  at  the  altar,  whilst  the  high  priest  himself,  with  more 
than  frantic  fury,  offered  up  his  bleeding  country  a  victim  to 
America.  The  gratitude  of  the  colonies  shews  us  what  thanks 
are  due  to  such  men.  They  will  not  even  keep  measures 
with  their  friends;  for  they  hate  the  traitors,  though  the 
treachery  hath  been  useful  to  them.  The  colonies  are  even 
eager  to  shew  that  they  regard  the  interests  of  the  men  (who 
to  serve  them  gave  up  every  thing  that  men  ought  to  hold 
dear,  except  their  places)  as  little  as  they  do  the  interests  of 
their  mother  country,  and  will  not  comply  so  far  with  the 
promising  engagements  made  for  them  here,  as  even  to  con- 
ceal their  malignant  intentions  until  their  friends  are  out  of 
place.  Such  is  the  certain  effect  of  conferring  benefits  upon 
an  American. 

Whatever  has  been  hitherto  the  delusion  of  the  public 
upon  this  subject,  I  fancy  we  are  by  this  time  completely 

*  Lord  Chatham,  Edit. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  193 

undeceived.  Our  good  friends  in  America  have  been  impa- 
tient to  relieve  us  from  all  our  mistakes  about  them  and  their 
loyaltv,  and  if  we  do  not  open  our  eyes  now,  we  had  better 
shut  them  for  ever. 

It  would  be  to  no  purpose  at  present  to  renew  a  discussiou 
of  the  merits  of  the  Stamp  Act,  though  I  am  convinced  that 
even  the  People  who  were  most  clamorous  against  it,  either 
never  understood,  or  wilfully  misrepresented  every  part  of 
it.  But  it  is  truly  astonishing  that  a  great  number  of  people 
should  have  so  little  foreseen  the  inevitable  consequence  of 
repealing  it,  and  particularly  that  the  trading  part  of  the  city 
should  have  conceived  that  a  compliance,  which  acknow- 
ledged the  rod  to  be  in  the  hand  of  the  Americans,  could 
ever  induce  them  to  surrender  it.  They  must  have  been 
rather  weaker  than  ourselves,  if  they  ever  paid  their  debts, 
when  they  saw  plainly  that,  by  withholding  them,  they  kept 
us  in  subjection.  In  the  natural  course  of  things  the  debtor 
should  be  at  the  mercy  of  his  creditor,  rather  than  a  tyrant 
over  him;  but  it  seems  that  for  these  three  years  past,  where- 
ever  America  hath  been  concerned,  every  argument  of  rea- 
son, every  rule  of  law,  and  every  claim  of  nature,  has  been 
despised  or  reversed.  We  have  not  even  a  tolerable  excuse 
for  our  folly.  The  punishment  has  followed  close  upon  it* 
and  that  it  must  be  so,  was  as  evident  to  common  sense,  as 
probable  in  prospect,  as  it  is  now  certain  in  experience. 
There  was  indeed  one  man,  who  wisely  foresaw  every  cir- 
cumstance which  has  since  happened,  and  who,  with  a  pa- 
triot's spirit,  opposed  himself  to  the  torrent*.  He  told  us, 
that,  if  we  thought  the  loss  of  outstanding  debts,  and  of  our 
American  trade,  a  mischief  of  the  first  magnitude,  such  an 
injudicious  compliance  with  the  terms  dictated  by  the  colo- 
nies, was  the  way  to  make  it  sure  and  unavoidable.  It  was 
ne  moriare,  mori.  We  see  the  prophecy  verified  in  every  par- 
ticular, and  if  this  great  and  good  man  was  mistaken  in  any 
one  instance,  it  was,  perhaps,  that  he  did  not  expect  his  pre- 
dictions to  be  fulfilled  so  soon  as  they  have  been. 

*  Mr.  George  Grenville.  Edit. 

Vol.  II.  2  B 


194  MISCELLANEOUS 

This  being  the  actual  state  of  things,  it  is  equally  vain  to 
attempt  to  conceal  our  situation  from  our  enemies,  as  it  is 
impossible  to  conceal  it  from  ourselves.  The  taxes  and  du- 
ties necessarily  laid  upon  trade,  in  order  to  pay  the  interest 
of  a  debt  of  one  hundred  and  thirty  millions,  are  so  heavy, 
that  our  manufactures  no  longer  find  a  vent  in  foreign  mar- 
kets. We  are  undersold  and  beaten  out  of  branches  of  trade, 
of  which  we  had  once  an  almost  exclusive  possession.  The 
progress  towards  a  total  loss  of  our  whole  foreign  trade  has 
been  rapid;   the  consequence  of  it  must  be  fatal.  We  had 
vainly  hoped  that  an  exclusive  commerce  with  our  colonies 
(in  whose  cause  a  great  part  of  the  very  incumbrances,  which 
have  destroyed  our  foreign  trade,  were  undertaken)  would 
have  rewarded  us  for  all  our  losses  and  expense,  and  have 
made  up  any  deficiency  in  the  revenue  of  our  customs.  We 
had  a  right  to  expect  this  exclusive  commerce  from  the  gra- 
titude of  the  Americans,  from  their  relation  to  us  as  colonists, 
and  from  their  own  real  interests,  if  truly  understood.  But 
unfortunately  for  us,  some  vain,  pernicious  ideas  of  indepen- 
dence and  separate  dominion,  thrown  out  and  fomented  by- 
designing  seditious  spirits  in  that  country,  and  encouraged 
and  confirmed  here  by  the  treachery  of  some  and  the  folly  of 
others,  have  cut  off  all  those  just  hopes,  those  well-founded 
expectations.  While  we  are  granting  bounties  upon  the  im- 
portation of  American  commodities,  the  grateful  inhabitants 
of  that  country  are  uniting  in  an  absolute  prohibition  of  the 
manufactures  of  Great  Britain.  To  doubt  that  the  example 
will  be  followed  by  the  rest  of  the  colonies,  would  be  reject- 
ing every  evidence  which  the  human  mind  is  capable  of  re- 
ceiving. To  be  mad  is  a  misfortune,  but  to  rave  in  cold  blood 
is  contemptible. 

The  enterprizes  of  the  Americans  are  now  carried  to  such 
a  point,  that  every  moment  we  lose  serves  only  to  accelerate 
our  perdition.  If  the  present  weak,  false,  and  pusillanimous 
administration  are  suffered  to  go  on  in  abetting  and  support- 
ing the  colonies  against  the  mother  country;  if  the  King 
should  take  no  notice  of  this  last  daring  attack  upon  our 
commerce,  the  only  consequence  will  be  that  the  contest,  in- 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  195 

stead  of  being  undertaken  while  we  have  strength  to  support 
it,  will  be  reserved  not  for  our  posterity,  but  to  a  time  when 
we  ourselves  shall  have  surrendered  all  our  arms  tp  the  peo- 
ple, with  whom  we  are  to  contend; — nor  will  that  period  be 
distant. 

If  the  combination  at  Boston  be  not  a  breach  of  any  stand- 
ing law  (which  I  believe  it  is)  ought  it  not  to  be  immediately 
declared  so,  by  an  act  of  the  legislature?  It  is  true,  that  pri- 
vate persons  cannot  be  compelled  to  buy  or  sell  against  their 
will;  but  unlawful  combinations,  supported  by  public  sub- 
scription and  public  engagements,  are  and  ought  to  be  sub- 
ject to  the  heaviest  penalties  of  the  law.  I  shall  only  add, 
that  it  is  the  common  cause  of  this  nation;  and  that  a  vigor* 
ous  and  steady  exertion  of  the  authority  of  Great  Britain 
would  soon  awe  a  tumultuous  people,  who  have  grown  inso- 
lent by  our  injudicious  forbearance,  and  trampled  upon  Us, 
because  we  submitted  to  them*. 


LETTER  XL 

T.O  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC  ADVERTISER. 
Mr.  Woodfall,  22  Dec.  1767. 

Your  correspondent  of  yesterday,  Mr.  Macaronif,  in  his 
account  of  the  new  ministerial  arrangements,  has  thrust  in  a 
laboured  bombast  panegyrick  on  the  Earl  of  Chatham;  in 
which  he  tells  us,  "  that  this  country  owes  more  to  him  than 
it  can  ever  repay."  Now,  Mr.  Woodfall,  I  entirely  agree 
with  Mr.  Macaroni,  that  this  country  does  owe  more  to  Lord 
Chatham  than  it  can  ever  repay;  for  to  him  we  owe  the 
greatest  part  of  our  national  debt;  and  that  I  am  sure  we 
can  never  repay.  I  mean  no  offence  to  Mr.  Macaroni,  nor 

*  This  letter  was  without  a  signature,  and  coukl  not,  therefore*  be  an- 
nounced, but  was  thus  noticed  on  the  day  previous  to  its  publication.  "  C.'s 
favour  is  come  to  hand."  For  a  further  continuation  of  this  subject,  see 
Miscellaneous  Letters,  Nos.  xxix.  and  xxxi.  Edit. 

f  This  writer  had  furnished  the  printer  with  a  list  of  the  supposed 
changes  in  administration.  Edit, 


196  MISCELLANEOUS 

any  of  your  gentlemen  authors,  who  are  so  kind  to  give  us 
citizens  an  early  peep  behind  the  political  curtain,  but  I  can- 
not bear  to  see  so  much  incense  offered  to  an  Idol*,  who  so 
little  deserves  it. 

I  am  yours,  &c. 

DOWNRIGHT. 


LETTER  XII. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC  ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  16  February,  1763. 

A  minister,  who  in  this  country  is  determined  to  do 
wrong,  should  not  only  be  a  man  of  abilities  but  of  uncom- 
mon courage.  To  invade  the  rights,  or  to  insult  the  under- 
standing of  a  nation,  qualified  to  judge  well,  and  privileged 
to  speak  freely  upon  public  measures,  requires  a  portion  of 
audacity  unacquainted  with  shame,  or  of  power  which  knows 
no  control.  Whether  it  be  owing  to  a  hardy  disposition,  or 
to  the  conceit  of  unlimited  power,  or  to  mere  solid  ignorance 
I  know  not,  but  it  is  too  apparent  that  the  present  ministry, 
in  every  thing  they  do  or  attempt  to  do,  are  determined  to 
set  the  understanding  and  the  spirit  of  the  English  people  at 
defiance.  In  a  succession  of  illegal  or  unconstitutional  acts, 
the  instance  of  to-day  ought  at  once  to  remind  us  of  what 
they  have  done  already,  and  to  alarm  us  against  what  they 
may  attempt  hereafter.  We  have  reason  to  thank  God  and 
the  legislature,  that  some  of  the  most  flagitious  of  their  en- 
terprizes  have  been  happily  defeated.  Their  endeavour  to 
establish  a  suspending  power  in  the  crown  met  with  all  the 
contempt  it  deserved!;  nor  have  they  quite  succeeded  in 
emancipating  the  colonies  from  the  authority  of  the  British 
legislature.  But  when  open  and  direct  attacks  upon  the  con- 
stitution have  failed,  a  bad  ministry  will  naturally  have  re- 
course to  some  more  artful  measures,  by  which  the  preroga- 

*  See  the  conclusion  of  Miscellaneous  Letter,  No.  iv.  and  Private  Let- 
ter, No.  23,  in  which  the  same  term  is  applied  to  Lord  Chatham.  Edit. 
|  See  this  subject  further  discussed  in  Junius,  Letter  lx.  Edit. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  197 

tive  of  the  crown  may  be  extended,  and  the  purposes  of 
arbitrary  power  answered  as  effectually,  and  more  securely 
to  themselves.  When  attempts  of  this  insidious  nature  are 
made,  it  is  the  duty  of  every  subject,  be  his  situation  what  it 
may ,  to  point  out  the  danger  to  his  countrymen  and  warn  them 
to  guard  against  it.  I  shall  take  another  opportunity  to  en- 
quire into  the  legality  of  the  appointment  of  a  third  secretary 
of  state:  at  present  let  me  be  permitted  to  rouse  the  attention 
of  the  public  to  a  later  and  to  a  still  more  flagrant  stretch  of 
prerogative.  A  prostitution  or  corruption  of  old  offices  may 
be  as  fatal  to  the  constitution,  as  the  illegal  creation  of  new 
ones.  In  the  Gazette  of  Saturday  se'nnight  we  are  informed, 
that  the  privy  seal  is  committed  to  the  care  of  three  persons, 
whose  commission  is  to  continue  six  weeks*.  From  the 
names  of  these  persons  we  can  collect  nothing,  but  that  two 
of  them  are  of  Scottish  extraction,  and  that  the  third  is  re- 
corder of  St.  Albans;  but  from  their  insignificance  and  ob- 
scurity we  may  easily  collect  that  there  is  some  particular 
design  in  fixing  on  such  persons  to  execute  one  of  the  first 
offices  of  the  state.  Why  the  Earl  of  Chatham  should  con- 
tinue to  hold  an  employment  of  this  importance,  while  he  is 
unable  to  perform  the  duties  of  it,  is  at  least  a  curious  ques- 
tion-)-.  But  it  is  infinitely  more  material  to  inquire  why  the 

*  Whiteliall,  Feb.  2.  The  king  has  been  pleased  to  issue  his  commission 
under  the  great  seal,  authorizing  and  empowering  Richard  Sutton,  Wil- 
liam Blair,  and  William  Frazer,  esqrs.  or  any  two  of  them,  to  execute  the 
office  of  keeper  of  his  Majesty's  privy  seal,  for  and  during  the  space  and 
term  of  six  weeks,  determinable  nevertheless  at  his  Majesty's  pleasure: 
and  also  to  grant,  during  his  Majesty's  pleasure,  to  the  Right  Honourable 
William  Earl  of  Chatham,  the  said  office  of  keeper  of  his  Majesty's  privy 
seal,  from  and  after  the  said  term  of  six  weeks,  or  other  sooner  determi- 
Dafion  of  the  said  commission.  Edit. 

-J-  We  have  here  another  proof  of  the  hostility  of  Junius  at  one  period 
to  this  nobleman,  a  previous  proof  having  already  occurred  in  the  Miscel- 
laneous Letters,  No.  i.  to  the  note  appended  to  which  we  refer  the  reader. 

In  the  Private  Letters,  No.  23,  dated  October  19, 1770,  he  stdl  insinuates 
his  dislike:  for  in  requesting  the  printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser  to  con- 
tradict his  being  the  author  of  the  letters  subscribed  A  Wlug  and  an  English, 
man,  iie  adds,  "  I  neither  admire  the  writer  nor  his  Idol?'  Who  the  writer 
of  these  letters  was  we  know  not:  but  the  Idol  was  certainly  Lord  Chatham. 

In  reality  it  was  not  till  about  the  date  of  Letter  liv.  under  his  favourite 

signature 


198  MISCELLANEOUS 

interregnum  is  not  committed  to  people  of  a  higher  rank  and 
character. 

The  establishment  of  the  several  high  offices  of  state  forms 
a  natural  and  constitutional  check  upon  the  prerogative  of 
the  crown.  No  illegal  or  unconstitutional  grant,  charter,  or 
patent  of  any  kind,  can  take  effect  from  the  mere  motion  of 
the  sovereign,  but  must  pass  through  a  number  of  offices,  in 
each  of  which  it  is  the  duty  of  the  officer,  if  the  case  requires 
it,  to  remonstrate  to  the  crown,  as  he  himself  is  answerable 
for  the  consequences  of  any  public  instrument,  which  he  has 
suffered  to  pass  through  his  department.  The  delay  of  this 
progression  has  another  good  effect,  in  giving  the  subject 
time  and  opportunity  to  enter  his  protest  against  any  sudden 
or  inconsiderate  grant,  by  which  his  own  property,  or  the 
welfare  of  the  country  in  general  may  be  affected,  and  to 
have  the  matter  fairly  discussed. 

The  precedence  annexed  to  these  high  offices  (exclusive  of 
the  importance  of  the  several  degrees  of  trust  reposed  in 
them)  sufficiently  proves  that  they  ought  to  be  confined  to 
men  of  the  first  character  and  consequence.  Men  of  that 
degree  may  safely  be  trusted,  because  they  have  a  greater 
stake  to  hazard,  and  are  answerable  to  the  public  with  their 
lives  and  fortunes.  The  dignity  of  the  lord  privy  seal's  office 
(next  in  rank  to  the  president  of  the  council)  would  of  itself 
be  a  sufficient  reason  for  giving  it  to  none  but  men  of  birth 
and  character,  and  the  great  trust,  annexed  to  that  dignity, 
is  a  farther  reason  for  never  committing  such  an  office  to  any 
but  men  of  the  first  rank  and  fortune  But  in  the  choice  of 
the  present  commissioners,  there  seems  to  be  something  par- 
ticularly and  singularly  improper.  When  a  caveat  is  entered 
against  a  grant  from  the  crown,  and  when  a  question  of  po- 
litical and  commercial  importance  is  therefore  to  be  discus- 
sed, can  there  be  a  higher  insult  to  the  public  than  to  commit 

signature  of  Junius,  that  he  began  to  think  commcndably  of  this  noble- 
man. "  I  am  called  upon,"  says  he,  in  that  letter,  "  to  deliver  my  opinion* 
Mul  surely  it  is  not  in  the  little  censure  of  Mr.  Home  to  deter  me  from 
doing  signal  justice  to  a  man,  ivhe,  I  confess,  has  grown  upon  my  esteein"— 
Koi  r. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  109 

the  determination  of  such  a  question  to  three  persons  very 
low  in  point  of  rank,  and  absolutely  dependant  in  point  of 
situation?  Shall  we  not  be  justified  in  supposing  that  they  are 
elected  for  no  other  quality  but  their  insignificance?  What- 
ever pretences  may  be  alleged  to  the  contrary,  the  public  will 
have  too  much  reason  to  suspect  that  these  worthy  commis- 
sioners are  taught  their  lesson,  and  that  the  job  is  too  dirty 
to  be  imposed  upon  gentlemen  of  a  higher  station  than  a 
clerk  in  office.  I  cannot  believe  that  these  persons  could  have 
been  chosen  by  the  Earl  of  Chatham.  Whatever  may  be  his 
faults,  a  man  of  spirit  could  no  more  lend  his  office  than  he 
could  his  mistress  to  the  purposes  of  prostitution;  much  less 
would  he  descend  to  take  either  of  them  back  again  with  a 
public  mark  of  infamy  upon  them. 

Now,  Sir,  let  us  suppose  these  three  respectable  persons 
seated  upon  their  tribunal,  with  two  Judges  of  England  by 
their  side,  and  the  first  lawyers  of  this  country  pleading  be- 
fore them  upon  a  question  of  the  first  importance  to  this 
country;  the  Judges,  I  doubt  not,  will  sit  in  silent  wonder  at 
the  judicial  abilities  of  these  great  men,  and  silent  they  must 
be,  unless  a  point  of  law  should  arise,  on  which  the  triumvi- 
rate shall  deign  to  ask  their  opinion;  the  lawyers  will  natu- 
rally exert  their  utmost  efforts,  when  they  consider  that  they 
have  the  honour  to  plead  before  three  gentlemen  of  such  pro- 
found knowledge,  such  distinguished  rank,  and  such  inflexi- 
ble probity,  that  neither  ignorance,  nor  ministerial  influence, 
nor  private  corruption,  can  have  any  share  in  their  decision. 

I  pity  the  unhappy  Englishman,  for  he  perhaps  may  blush 
for  his  situation. 


200  MISCELLANEOUS 


LETTER  XIII. 

TO  THE  PRINTER   OF  THE  PUBLIC  ADVERTISER. 

24  February,  1768; 
Fluctus  uti  firimo  cxfiit  cum  albescere  vento, 
Paullatim  sese  tollit  mare,  et  altius  undas, 
Urigit,  inde  imo  consurgit  ad  tztherafundo. 

Virg.  jEn.  vii.  527. 
Sir, 

The  people  of  England  are  by  nature  somewhat  phlegma- 
tic. This  complexional  character  is  extremely  striking,  when 
contrasted  with  the  suddenness  and  vivacity  of  many  of  our 
neighbours  on  the  continent.  It  even  appears  remarkable 
among  the  several  kindred  tribes,  which  compose  the  great 
ihass  of  the  British  empire.  The  heat  of  the  Welch,  the  im- 
petuosity of  the  Irish,  the  acrimony  of  the  Scotch,  and  the 
headlong  violence  of  the  Creolians,  are  national  tempera- 
ments very  different  from  that  of  the  native  genuine  English. 

This  slowness  of  feeling,  is  in  some  respects  inconvenient; 
but  on  the  whole  view  of  life,  it  has  I  think  the  advantage 
clearly  on  its  side.  Our  countrymen  derive  from  thence  a 
firmness,  an  uniformity,  and  a  perseverance  in  their  designs, 
which  enables  them  to  conquer  the  greatest  difficulties,  and 
to  arrive  at  the  ultimate  point  of  perfection  in  almost  every 
thing  they  undertake. 

Their  slowness  to  passion  has  also  another  advantage.  No 
wise  man  will  lightly  venture  to  do  them  a  real  injurv.  Their 
anger  is  not  suddenly  kindled,  nor  easily  extinguished;  it  is 
dark  and  gloomy;  it  is  nourished  to  a  gigantic  size  and  vi- 
gour, under  a  silent  meditation  on  their  wrongs,  until  at  last 
it  arrives  at  such  a  mature  and  steady  vehemence,  as  becomes 
terrible  indeed.  It  was  on  a  consideration  of  this  kind  of  cha- 
racter, that  a  great  Poet  says  with  a  singular  emphasis — "  Be- 
ware the  fury  of  a  patient  man." 

It  is  surprising  how  much  this  character  is  exemplified  in 
every  part  of  our  history.  The  long  patience,  amounting 
almost  to  tameness,  with  which  the  people  of  England  have 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  20. ! 

borne  the  outrages  of  evil  ministers,  has  only  been  equalled 
by  the  irresistible  force  by  which  they  attacked,  and  the  un- 
relenting severity  with  which  they  finally  punished  toe 
authors  of  their  great  grievances. 

I  wish  with  all  my  heart  that  our  time  may  furnish  no  such 
examples:  and  yet  I  confess,  my  fears  are  excited  by  appear- 
ances that  are  sufficiently  alarming.  The  people  of  England 
have  seen  an  administration  formed,  almost  avowedly,  under 
the  direction  of  a  dangerous,  because  private  and  unrespon- 
sible influence;  and  at  the  same  time  with  an  outward  pre- 
sidency of  ministerial  despotism,  which  by  its  very  nature 
annihilated  all  public  council.  This  they  endured.  They  saw 
a  course  of  the  most  scandalous  and  corrupt  profusion  of 
public  money  that  ever  was  known  in  the  kingdom,  attended 
with  such  a  neglect  of  every  public  duty,  as  if  an  experiment 
was  intended,  to  try  how  far  the  state  could  subsist  by  its  own 
strength,  without  any  of  the  usual  aids  of  active  government. 
The  people  of  England  bore  this  likewise. 

They  saw  the  very  first  opportunity  laid  hold  on  to  revive 
the  doctrines  of  a  dispensing  power,  state  necessity,  arcana 
of  government,  and  all  that  clumsy  machinery  of  exploded 
prerogative,  which  it  had  cost  our  ancestors  so  much  toil 
and  treasure,  and  blood,  to  break  to  pieces.  This  we  suffered 
with  our  usual  patience.  They  saw  an  attempt  made  to  ren- 
der all  the  monied  property  of  the  kingdom  loose  and  inse- 
cure, and  to  turn  our  national  funds  from  being  supports  of 
public  credit  into  instruments  of  ministerial  power,  and  to 
take  away  that  dependance  upon  law  which  had  been  in  all 
ages  the  great  source  of  our  domestic  happiness,  and  that  firm 
reliance  upon  public  faith  which  has  been  the  means  of  mak- 
ing us  respectable  to  all  the  world.  The  Englishman  still 
continued  sullen  and  silent. 

Those  very  circumstances  which  strike  terror  into  the 
heart  of  a  wise  man,  are  often  such  as  inspire  fools  with  con- 
fidence and  presumption.  Having  had  sufficient  proof  as  they 
thought  of  the  passive  disposition  of  their  fellow-citizens, 
and  at  a  loss  for  precedents  of  despotism  of  a  modern  date 
in  any  civilized  country,  they  begun  to  ransack  the  stores  of 

Vol.  II.  2  C 


202  MISCELLANEOUS 

antiquated  oppression.  ?id  ventured  to  perpetrate  an  act  (by 
a  singular  composition)  of  such  consummate  audacity  and 
meanness  of  spirit,  as  it  might  well  be  thought  impossible  to 
unite.  v 

In  subserviency  to  the  odious  influence  under  which  they 
acr,  his  administration  dared — to  an  informer  nearly  allied 
to  that  very  influence* — at  the  time,  and  for  the  purposes  of 
an  eir  crion — refusing  to  hear  counsel — not  daring  to  take 
the  opinion  of  the  king's  law  servants — denying  access  to  the 
records  in  their  possession — to  pass  a  grant  of  the  estate  of 
a  noble  and  most  respectable  person,  derived  from  a  king,  to 
whom  we  owe  all  our  liberties;  sixty-three  years  in  undis- 
puted possession,  the  subject  of  frequent  settlements,  and 
now  actually  a  part  of  the  jointure  of  the  noble  duchessf. 

The  people  of  England  at  length  began  to  break  silence. 
They  might  indeed  look  upon  the  private  wrong  as  a  matter 
of  inward  meditation,  and  a  further  exercise  of  their  patience. 
But  the  principle  of  this  grant  has  given  a  shock  to  the 

WHOLE  LANDED  PROPERTY  OF  ENGLAND. 

Called  upon  by  this  practical  menace  to  all  landed  proper- 
ty, and  by  many  other  detached  grievances,  arising  from  the 
same  absurd  and  tyrannical  principle,  that  no  length  of  pos- 
session secures  against  a  claim  of  the  crozvn,  one  of  the  ablest, 
most  virtuous  and  most  temperate  men  in  the  kingdom,  sup- 
ported by  a  steady  band  of  uniform  patriots,  has  made  an 
attempt  in  a  certain  great  assembly,  (without  providing  any 
remech  for  this  case  of  oppression,)  to  secure  the  subject  at 
least  for  the  future  against  such  wild  and  indefinite  claims. 

Such  was  the  spirit  which  manifested  itself  upon  that 
occasion,  that  though  for  the  present,  after  a  glorious  strug- 
gle they  have  failed,  there  is  no  sort  of  doubt,  that  the  cry 
of  reason,  justice,  policy,  and  the  general  feeling  of  the  peo- 

*  The  informer  was  the  late  Earl  of  Lonsdale,  at  that  time  Sir  James 
Lowther,  who  had  married  a  daughter  of  Lord  Bute,  whose  influence  is 
herr  alluded  to.  Fhi  estate  belonged  to  the  Duke  of  Portland.  See  Letter 
liVix.'u.  73  ol  this  vol.  note    Edit. 

|  Duchess  of  Portland.  Edit. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  203 

pie,  will  shortly  prevail*;  and  thr  rather,  as  this  discussion 
has  brought  to  light  further  designs  of  the  most  extraordi- 
nary nature,  such  as  will,  if  not  timely  prevented,  spread 
distraction  from  one  end  of  the  kingdom  to  the  other.  My 
next  will  be  on  that  important  subject. 

MNEMON. 


LETTER  XIV. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC  ADVERTISER. 

4  March,  1768. 
Oh,  wretched  State!  Oh  Bosom  black  as  Death! 
Oh  limed  Soul,  that,  struggling  to  be  free, 
Art  more  encaged. 

Shakspeare. 
Sir, 
Innocence,  even  in  its  crudest  simplicity,  has  some  ad- 
vantages over  the  most  dexterous  and  practised  guilt.  Equi- 
vocal appearances  may,  to  be  sure,  accidentally  attend  it  in 
its  progress  through  the  world;  but  the  very  scrutiny  which 
these  appearances  will  excite,  operates  in  favour  of  innocence; 
which  is  secure  the  moment  it  is  discovered.  But  guilt  is  a 
poor  helpless,  dependent  being.  Without  the  alliance  of  able, 
diligent,  and  let  me  add,  fortunate  fraud,  it  is  inevitably  un- 
done. If  the  guilty  culprit  be  obstinately  silent,  his  silence 
forms  a  deadly  presumption  against  him.  If  he  speaks,  talk- 
ing tends  to  discovery;  and  his  very  defence  often  furnishes 
materials  towards  his  conviction. 

This  has  been  exactly  the  case  of  those  unhappy  men,  (the 
ministry)  in  that  apology  for  their  conduct,  which  they  chuse 
to  complicate  with  their  opposition  to  the  settlement  of  the 
national  property.  Nobody,  not  originally  acquainted  with 

*  By  a  bill  called  the  Quieting-  Bill,  and  which  was  again  brought  forward 
by  Sir  G.  Saville  in  the  following-  year,  and  carried.  But  seethe  subject 
further  elucidated  and  the  final  determination  of  the  Court  of  Exchequer 
on  the  suit  depending  between  Sir  James  Lowther  and  the  Duke  of  Port- 
land in  the  editor's  note  to  Juxius's  Letters,  No.  tYU.  as  also  No. 
j.xvii.  Edit. 


204,  MISCELLANEOUS 

the  bottom  of  their  proceedings,  was  able  to  discern  the  true 
nature  and  full  extent  of  their  crime,  until  we  had  seen  upon 
what  principle  they  grounded  their  defence. 

It  is  worth  while  to  lay  this  affair  a  little  more  open.  The 
maxim  of  Nullum  Tempus  occur rit  Regi*,  that  no  length  of 
continuance  or  good  faith  of  possession  is  available  against  a 
claim  of  the  crozvn,  has  been  long  the  opprobrium  of  preroga- 
tive, and  the  disgrace  of  our  law.  The  ablest  writers  in  that 
profession  have  ever  mentioned  it  with  abhorrence.  The  best 
judges  have  always  cast  an  odium  upon  it,  as  being  funda- 
mentally contrary  to  natural  equity,  and  all  the  maxims  of  a 
free  government.  And  a  superior  genius,  a  great  light  of  the 
agef,  has  not  long  since  endeavoured  to  give  it  as  great  a 
check  as  judicature,  unaided  by  legislative  powers,  is  able  to 
interpose. 

The  truth  is,  this  prerogative  has  hitherto  owed  its  exis- 
tence principally  to  its  disuse.  It  was  an  engine,  at  once  so 
formidable  to  the  people,  and  so  dangerous  to  those  who 
should  attempt  to  handle  it,  that  it  never  was  considered 
amongst  the  instruments  of  a  xvise  minister.  It  remained  like 
an  old  piece  of  cannon  I  have  heard  of  somewhere  of  an  enor- 
mous size,  which  stood  upon  a  ruinous  bastion,  and  which 
was  seldom  or  never  fired  for  fear  of  bringing  down  the  for- 
tification for  whose  defence  it  was  intended. 

But  constituted  as  administration  is  at  present,  where  real 
power  is  invested  in  one  hand,  and  responsible  office  placed 
in  another,  from  the  security  of  the  former  situation,  and 
from  the  servile  dependance  of  the  latter,  it  is  no  wonder 
that  hazardous  measures  should  be  commanded  without  fear, 
and  that  they  should  be  executed,  though  with  the  utmost 
trepidation  and  reluctance.  From  thence  arose  that  despe- 
rate proceeding  which  has  given  such  an  universal  alarm  to 
property. 

Upon  the  first  attack  on  that  rotten  part  of  prerogative 
(out  of  whose  corruption  the  late  northern  grant  was  gene- 

*  The  commencement  of  the  obsolete  law  which  in  this  case  was  ap- 
pealed to  by  the  minister:  hence  culled  the  Nullum  Tempus  Law.  Edi  r 
-f  Sir  George  Saville.  Edit. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  205 

rated)  the  ministers  found  themselves  entirely  at  a  loss.  To 
defend  their  Nullum  Tempus  upon  principles  of  liberty,  or 
even  upon  principles  of  justice,  was  a  thing  clearly  impossi- 
ble. To  abandon  it  without  reflecting  on  their  past  conduct, 
and  without  giving  up  their  future  projects,  was  a  point  of 
equal  difficulty.  It  seems  that  they  had  hoarded  up  those  un- 
meaning powers  of  the  crown,  as  a  grand  military  magazine, 
towards  the  breaking  the  fortunes  and  depressing  the  spirit 
of  the  nobility,  for  drawing  the  common  people  from  their 
reliance  on  the  natural  interests  of  the  country  to  an  imme- 
diate dependance  on  the  crown,  and  principally  for  enabling 
ministers,  public  or  secret,  to  domineer  and  give  the  law  in 
all  future  elections.  They  thought  their  scheme  would  then 
be  complete,  if  the  votes  of  freeholders,  the  very  means 
which  our  ancestors  had  provided  as  the  great  security  to  our 
freedom,  could  be  converted  into  the  most  certain  instru- 
ments of  the  public  servitude. 

It  was  evident,  that  when  they  refused  to  give  up  this  bar- 
barous maxim,  it  was  their  intention  to  make  some  sort  of 
use  of  it.  Such  a  conclusion  could  not  in  any  way  be  evaded. 
In  this  strait  they  took  the  part  of  avowing,  that  they  did  in- 
tend to  find  some  employment  for  their  favourite  preroga- 
tive, which,  after  so  long  a  trance,  they  had  thought  proper 
to  disenchant,  and  to  set  in  action.  It  was  then  their  business 
to  find  some  excuse  for  themselves,  and  some  pretence  of 
public  utility  for  their  system. 

On  this  occasion  they  built  upon  two  grounds  very  well 
worthy  of  the  reader's  utmost  attention;  the  first  I  shall  now 
point  out;  the  latter,  and  most  important,  would  transgress 
the  limits  of  your  paper.  It  shall  be  reserved  for  another  op- 
portunity. 

The  fi^st  thing  they  did,  was  totally  to  disclaim  their  own 
free  agency.  In  the  highest  department  of  the  state,  they  de- 
clared themselves  to  be  mere  creatures  of  execution.  They 
asserted,  that  they  were  in  all  matters  of  this  sort  entirely 
subservient  to  an  officer,  hitherto  little  heard  of,  but  from 
henceforth  to  be  a  name  of  dreadful  note  in  this  country,  the 
surveyor  general.  It  is  their  system,  that  if  informers  (Tbe 

Wf 


206  MISCELLANEOUS 

they  who  they  may,  in  circumstances  of  indigence  to  make 
any  desperate  attempt,  or  of  wealth  and  power  to  combat  the 
great,  and  crush  the  poor,)  can  contrive  to  obtain  the  sur- 
veyor's report  in  their  favour,  ministers  are  obliged,  without 
farther  inquiry,  to  grant  to  them  patents  to  vex,  harass,  im- 
poverish, possibly  to  ruin,  any  honest  proprietor  in  the 
kingdom. 

It  is  true  that  they  supported  themselves  in  this  perverse 
doctrine  by  no  one  argument  from  law,  usage,  or  common 
sense:  but  it  is  their  system;  and  it  is  mentioned  here,  not  to 
shew  the  depth  of  their  understanding,  but  the  malighit)  of 
their  designs.  For  if  once  they  could  come  to  establi  ;h  lis 
their  favourite  point, things  would  stand  thus: — The  surveyor 
general,  who  keeps  all  the  crown  titles,  (inaccessible  to  the 
subject,}  has  an  hint  to  find  a  weak  part  in  some  old  posses- 
sion; say  of  sixty,  say  of  two  hundred  years.  A  court  fa- 
vourite has  an  hint  to  become  an  informer,  a  character  no 
way  incompatible  with  his  own.  Then  all  the  rest  follows  of 
course.  The  lords  of  the  Treasury  must  obey  the  informer, 
and  make  the  reference;  the  surveyor  must  obey  the  Treasu- 
ry and  report;  and  then  the  Treasury  in  their  turn  must  obey 
the  surveyor,  and  direct  the  grant.  The  whole  system  moves, 
according  to  the  preordained  laws  of  despotism,  in  a  circle 
of  strict  necessity*. 

*  In  a  debate  which  took  place  in  the  House  of  Commons,  February  27,. 
1771,  on  a  motion  made  by  Sir  William  Meredith,  to  repeal  a  clause  in  the 
Bill  of  Shriet,  which  passed  in  the  year  1768,  Lord  North  thus  defends 
himself  from  the  grant  in  question: — 

"The  honourable  gentleman  [Mr.  Cornwall,  afterwards  speaker  of  the 
House  of  Commons,]  has  revived  in  my  memory  a  grant,  which  passed 
since  I  had  the  honour  of  holding  the  seal  of  the  exchequer,  and  which 
seal,  I  am  proud  to  own,  was  affixed  by  me  to  the  grant  in  question.  This 
he  calls  an  abominable  act:  but  in  the  situation  1  then  was,  aud  still  am,  I 
thought  myself  bound  to  pass  it  by  every  principle  of  duty  to  the  crown^ 
as  the  servant  of  the  crown,  and  bound  still  more  strongly  by  that  duty 
which  I  owe  to  the  public,  as  steward  of  the  public  estate,  as  far  as  it  is 
intrusted  to  me.  It  is  my  glory  that  I  passed  the  grant;  and  as  often  as 
mention  of  it  is  made,  so  often  shall  I  think  that  honour  imputed  to  me." 
Notwithstanding  Lord  North's  boast  upon  the  occasion,  the  gram  vas 
ultimately  set  aside  by  the  court  of  exchequer,  on  the  ground  that  uit- 
rvnt  of  t/lirteen  and  four-pence  was  not  an  adequate  third-part  of  its  ciear 

^     yearly 


V 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  207 

In  this  procedure,  who  can  convict  the  surveyor  general 
of  corrupt  activity  or  obedience?  He  is  only  bound  to  prove, 
that  the  lands  in  question  have  been  in  some  former  age  in 
the  hands  of  the  crown.  This  is  not  difficult:  all  the  lands  of 
the  kingdom  have  been  so.  It  is  his  duty,  according  to  the 
present  prerogative  doctrines,  not  to  discover,  or  to  suffer  to 
be  discovered,  any  thing  which  may  tend  to  clear  and  settle 
the  right  of  the  subject.  He  may  have  that  in  his  office  which 
would  establish  the  very  title  he  attempts  to  overthrow:  but 
fairness  in  his  situation  is  held  to  be  a  breach  of  trust,  be- 
cause the  crown  is  always  considered  by  these  gentlemen, 
with  respect  to  the  subject,  as  an  adverse  party;  and  to  exist 
in  a  state  of  unremitting-  and  immortal  litigation  with  th& 
people. 

Thus  a  mutual  obedience,  and  a  common  impunity  is  es- 
tablished between  these  two  great  powers,  the  Treasury  and 
the  surveyor,  grounded  on  the  favourite  principle  of  necessi- 
ty. The  only  free  agent  in  the  whole  transaction  is  the  in- 
former: but  he  is  not  only  as  dispunishable  as  the  others,  but 
i  is  highly  meritorious  into  the  bargain,  for  discovering  what 
in  their  prerogative  jargon  is  called  a  concealment;  that  is  to 
say,  in  plain  English,  the  ancient  possession  and  inheritance 
of  a  valuable  and  loyal  subject.  By  all  these  means  an  office 
[  of  inquisition  is  established  in  the  true  inquisitorial  spirit, 
\  and  with  genuine  inquisitorial  powers,  over  all  the  landed 
i  property  of  England.  The  use  proposed  to  be  made  of  it  will 
j  be  the  subject  of  my  next  paper. 

Iln  the  mean  time  it  is  a  matter  of  very  serious  considera- 
tion, to  observe  the  growth  of  arbitrary  and  despotic  princi- 
\  pies  in  this  country:  There  is  such  a  pernicious  vigour  in 
their  vegetation,  and  such  a  rank  luxuriance  in  the  soil,  that 
when  they  seem  to  be  cut  up  even  by  the  roots,  they  will  sud- 
*  denly  shoot  up  in  some  other  place,  and  under  some  other, 
and  perhaps  more  dangerous  appearance.  Suppress  them  un- 
j  der  thcr  shape  of  general  warrants  or  seizure  of  papers,  theyr 
;  will  start  up  in  the  form  of  dispensing poxvers,  forfeiture  of 

yearly  value.  But  se«  t  e  decision  of  that  court,  as  given  in  Letter  Lvir. 
p.  73  of  this  vol.  Note.  Edit. 


208  MISCELLANEOUS 

charters,  violations  of  public  faith,  establishments  of  private 
monopolies,  and  raising  up  antiquated  titles  for  the  crown. 
There  is  a  consideration  still  more  melancholy:  that  many 
persons*  apostatizing  from  their  principle,  betraying  their 
associates,  and  combining  with  their  adversaries,  make  no 
other  use  of  the  credit  they  have  derived  from  their  former 
activity  in  the  cause  of  freedom,  than  that  they  may  approach 
it  without  suspicion,  and  wound  it  beyond  all  possibility  of 
cure. 

MNEMON. 


LETTER  XV. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE    PUBLIC  ADVERTISER. 

11  March,  176$. 
What  aileth  thee  Mnemon? 
Whij  art  thou  so  disquieted? 
And  why  is  thy  understanding  troubled? 

Is  it  not  very  extraordinary,  Mr.  Printer,  that  the  parts 
and  abilities  of  Mnemon  should  be  prostituted  to  the  licen- 
tious abuse  of  the  highest  and  most  honourable  board  in  this 
kingdom,  composed  of  persons  of  the  most  unimpeached 
characters,  because  they  have  dared  to  grant  some  crown 
lands  to  Sir  James  Lowther,  not  comprehended  in  that  of 
King  William,  to  one  of  his  Dutch  imports,  but  usurped  and 
illegally  withheld  by  them? 

Can  any  one  review  the  parliamentary  debates  of  that  sera, 
and  not  be  fired  at  the  glorious  spirit  exerted  by  the  Com- 
mons of  England  against  the  enormous  grant  of  crown  lands 
made  to  the  Dutch  favourites  of  that  monarch? 

Was  not  the  most  scandalous  partiality  shewn  to  them  in 
prejudice  to  the  people  of  this  country?  Were  not  honours 
and  riches  heaped  upon  them  with  unexampled  profusion? 

Whence,  in  the  name  of  God,  all  this  clamour?  What  is  it 
to  the  public,  whether  a  Bentink  or  a  Lowther  succeeds? 
Are  not  the  courts  of  law  open  to  determine  it?  Can  it  be  a 

Th(fDuke  of  Grafton  is  the  person  hero  alluded  to 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  209 

subject  for  faction,  or  a  pretext  for  abuse?  No,  Sir;  be  assur- 
ed the  arrows  wound  not;  the  breast,  fraught  with  conscious 
worth,  feels  not  the  shafts  of  envy. 

ANTI-VAN  TEAGUE. 


LETTER  XVI. 

TO   THE   PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC  ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  24  March,  1768. 

Your  correspondent  Anti-van  Teague,  in  your  paper  of 
Friday  se'nnight,  has  undertaken  a  task,  far,  I  am  afraid, 
above  his  abilities.  His  inclination  I  believe  to  be  very  good, 

but  non  tali  auxilio,  nee  defensoribus  istis Tempus  eget. 

If  Nullum  Tempus,  and  the  late  most  extraordinary  and 
alarming  use  made  of  it,  is  now  to  be  defended,  I  would  ad- 
vise that  most  honourable  board,  composed  (a6  Anti-van 
Teague  says)  of  persons  of  the  most  unimpeached  characters, 
to  hire  abler  advocates  for  its  defence.  Uncommon  parts  and 
no  vulgar  eloquence  are  required  to  subdue  the  fears  and 
quiet  the  apprehensions  of  all  the  landed  property  of  these 
kingdoms.  When  that  most  honourable  board  shall  next 
think  fit  to  bestow  another  estate  upon  a  Lowther,  or  any 
other  informer,  wonderful  no  doubt  will  be  the  contented 
acquiescence  of  the  person  robbed,  when  he  is  assured  that 
what  is  taken  from  him  to  gratify  the  Scotch  favourite  of 
to-day  was  given  some  hundred  years  ago  by  the  crown  to  a 
Dutch  favourite  of  that  time.  Surely,  Sir,  the  noble  duke 
who  is  the  present  sufferer,  must  feel  great  satisfaction  in 
finding  the  sins  of  his  ancestors  visited  upon  him.  A  Stuart 
has  at  length  risen  up  to  avenge  upon  the  memory  of  King 
William,  and  the  descendants  of  all  those  embarked  with  him 
in  the  once  glorious  cause,  the  injuries  and  sufferings  of  that 
once  (but  now  no  longer)  hateful  name. 

We  have  lived,  Sir,  to  see  an  advocate  for  the  ministry  of 
George  the  Third  defending  their  actions  and  justifying  their 
conduct,  by  asserting — not  that  their  actions  are  just  and 
their  conduct  clear,  but  that  their  injustice  falls  heavv  on  the 

Vol.  II.  2  D 


210  MISCELLANEOUS 

posterity  alone  of  those  who  by  their  arms  and  their  counsel 
assisted  our  great  deliverer  to  effect  that  revolution,  to  which 
and  which  alone  we  owe  the  establishment  of  his  present 
Majesty's  most  illustrious  and  royal  family  on  the  throne  of 
these  kingdoms. 

What  Anti-van  Teagiie  means  by  unimpeached  characters 
I  cannot  readily  guess.  I  suppose  he  means  the  public  cha- 
racter of  the  ministers  or  rather  of  the  minister*.  His  pri- 
vate character  I  do  not  meddle  with,  but  to  call  his  character 
unimpeached,  who  is  not  only  charged  with,  but  to  the  sense 
of  every  impartial  person  convicted  of  the  most  daring  and 
flagitious  attacks  upon  the  liberty  and  property  of  his  fellow 
subjects,  is  really  surprising. 

Is  the  revival  of  the  suspending  and  dispensing  powers  of 
the  crown  an  experiment  of  curiosity  alone? — but  for  that  he 
has  in  the  most  solemn  manner  been  pardoned  by  an  act  of 
parliament,  and  therefore  probably  that  will  not  make  part 
of  his  impeachment.  Is  his  open  and  wicked  interference  in 
elections,  by  threats  and  bribery,  manifest  to  the  whole  na- 
tion (though  his  reverend  instrument  was  acquitted)  to  be 
accounted  no  more  than  a  good  natured  solicitude  for  his 
friends? 

Are  his  violent  attacks  upon  the  monied  and  landed  pro- 
perty of  the  people  nothing  more  than  dutiful  exertions  of 
his  power  to  pay  on  one  hand  the  debts  of  the  civil  list, 
and  on  the  other  hand  to  raise,  support,  and  extend  that  hid- 
den, pernicious,  and  unconstitutional  influence,  in  which,  and 
by  which,  he  lives  and  moves,  and  has  his  being? 

Is  his  lavish  and  wasteful  profusion  of  the  public  property 
in  pensions,  reversions,  grants,  and  monopolies,  a  decent  and 
becoming  reward  to  those  who  have  been,  or  are  willing  to 
be,  his  tools  and  creatures? 

Is  his  activity  in  corruption  and  oppression,  and  his  per- 
fect idleness  in,  and  neglect  of,  all  public  and  national  busi- 
ness, a  spirited  exertion  on  one  hand,  and  a  needful  repose 
on  the  other? 

*  The  Duke  of  Grafton.  Edit. 


•LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  211 

I  have,  you  see,  Sir,  not  meddled  with  his  private  charac- 
ter; I  leave  that  for  him  to  earth  in  whenever  he  is  hard  run, 
according  to  the  laudable  example  of  his  chancellor  of  the  ex- 
chequer*. Let  him  resemble  the  great  demi-gods  of  antiqui- 
ty, who  had  also  two  characters,  and  whilst  one-half  of  them 
was  taken  up  to  heaven,  the  other  half  found  its  way  to  hell. 
I  shall  only  advise  Anti-van  Teague  to  recommend  it  to  his 
patron  not  to  trust  too  much  to  his  double  capacity,  lest,  at 
some  odd  turn,  he  may  find  his  private  person  so  involved  in 
his  public  character ,  that  the  sharpest  axe,  and  the  most  dex- 
terous operator,  may  not  be  able  to  avenge  the  nation  upon 
the  last,  without  doing  some  small  prejudice  to  the  first. 

1  am,  &c. 
Not  yet  an  enemy  to  the  revolution. 
ANTI-STUART. 


LETTER  XVII. 

TO   THE  PRINTER  OF   THE  PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 

5  April,  1768. 

Vivit?  imo  verb  etiam  in  senatum  uenit:  Jit publici  consi/ii  fiarticefis: 
notat,  et  limis  designat  oculis  ad  cadem  unumquemque  nostrum. 

Sir, 
The  return  of  Mr.  Wilkes  to  England,  and  the  measures 
he  has  since  pursued,  have  given  the  servants  of  the  crown 
an  opportunity  of  acting  in  a  manner  so  becoming  them- 
selves, that  it  would  be  ingratitude  not  to  take  notice  of 
their  extraordinary  merits  upon  this  occasion.  Our  gracious 
sovereign  undoubtedly  thinks  himself  highly  indebted  to  his 
ministers  for  their  uncommon  care  of  his  honour  and  dig- 
nity, as  well  as  for  their  attention  to  the  security  of  his  house, 
family,  and  sacred  person;  and  I  may  venture  to  assure  them 
that  the  public  in  general  have  a  just  sense  of  the  vigour  and 
spirit  with  which  they  have  administered  the  laws,  and  with 
which  the  peaceable  part  of  his  Majesty's  subjects  have  been 
protected.  What  sort  of  thanks  they  will  receive  from  their 
sovereign,  I  cannot  tell,  but,  as  far  as  my  weak  endeavours 
*  Lord  North.  Edit. 


212  MISCELLANEOUS 

can  reach,  the  nation  shall  not  remain  unapprised  of  the  ex- 
tent and  species  of  our  obligations  to  them. 

A  man  of  a  most  infamous  character  in  private  life  is  in- 
dicted for  a  libel  against  the  king's  person,  solemnly  tried  by 
his  peers  according  to  the  laws  of  the  land,  and  found  guilty*. 
To  avoid  the  sentence  due  to  his  crime,  he  flies  to  a  foreign 
country,  and  failing  to  surrender  himself  to  justice  is  out- 
lawed. By  this  outlawry,  he  loses  all  claim  to  the  protection 
of  those  magistrates,  and  of  those  laws,  to  which,  by  his  eva- 
sion, he  had  refused  to  be  amenable.  After  some  years  spent 
abroad,  this  man  returns  to  England  with  as  little  fear  of  the 
laws,  which  he  had  violated,  as  of  respect  for  the  great  per- 
son, whom  he  had  wantonly  and  treasonably  attacked.  With- 
out a  single  qualification  either  moral  or  political,  and  under 
the  greatest  disability,  this  man  presumes  so  far  upon  the 
protection  of  the  populace,  as  to  offer  himself  a  candidate  to 
represent  the  metropolis  of  the  kingdom.  Disappointed  in 
this  attempt,  notwithstanding  all  the  efforts  and  violence  of 
the  rabble,  he  has  still  the  confidence  to  offer  himself  to  the 
freeholders  of  Middlesex  as  a  proper  person  to  represent  a 
county,  in  which  he  has  not  a  single  foot  of  land;  and  to  com- 
plete the  whole,  we  see  a  man  overwhelmed  with  debts,  a 

*  It  has  already  appeared  in  several  instances,  that  Junius,  subse- 
quently to  the  present  date,  espoused  the  cause  of  Mr.  Wilkes,  or  rather 
sU'enuously  upheld  him  in  his  contest  with  the  ministry  upon  the  very  sub- 
ject adverted  to  in  this  letter.  Yet  the  political  conduct  of  Junius  was  per- 
haps strictly  and  unimpeachably  uniform.  He  had,  at  first,  indeed,  conceived 
a  personal  dislike  to  Mr.  Wilkes,  in  consequence  of  his  strenuous  resistance 
to  the  general  warrant  which  was  served  upon  him  during  the  adminis- 
tration in  which  Mr.  George  Grenville  was  chancellor  of  the  exchequer, 
for  whom,  whether  in  office  or  out  of  office,  Junius  ever  manifested  the 
strongest  partiality.  But  in  the  present  instance,  Wilkes  is  only  adverted 
to  as  an  instrument  of  attack  upon  an  administration  which  Junius  abo- 
minated; and  as  soon  as  he  found  that  he  could  support  this  attack  better 
by  enlisting  gentlemen  in  his  favour  than  in  opposition  to  him,  he  shrewdly 
took  measures  for  such  a  purpose,  and  was  fortunate  enough  to  succeed. 

There  is  the  same  apparent  inconsistency  in  his  being-  ultimately  the 
friend  of  Lord  Camden,  who  is  here  held  up  to  public  odium,  and  to  Lord 
Chatham  after  having  as  warmly  opposed  him.  But  his  change  of  opinion 
concerning  these  noblemen  was  by  no  means  a  sudden  flight:  it  grew  upon 
him  slowly,  and  was  the  result  of  their  own  change  of  conduct.  Edit. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS-  2V3 

convict,  and  an  outlaw,  returned  to  serve  in  the  British  par- 
liament as  knight  of  a  shire.  These,  Sir,  are  the  main  facts  of 
Mr.  Wilkes's  case.  The  circumstances  with  which  they  were 
attended  are  no  less  atrocious.  We  saw  the  other  candidates, 
gentlemen  of  large  fortune,  and  of  the  most  respectable  cha- 
racters, dragged  from  their  carriages,  and  hardly  escaping 
with  life  out  of  the  hands  of  Mr.  Wilkes's  friends  and  com- 
panions. If  the  candidates  were  treated  in  this  manner,  you 
may  imagine  what  sort  of  reception  their  friends  met  with 
in  attempting  to  poll  for  them.  The  fact  is,  that  great  num- 
bers were  driven  back  by  main  force,  or  deterred  by  the 
threats  of  the  populace;  so  that  not  a  third  part  of  the  friends 
of  Sir  William  Proctor  and  Mr.  Cooke  were  ever  permitted 
to  approach  the  hustings.  The  conclusion  of  Monday  and 
Tuesday  night  was  perfectly  consistent  with  the  whole  pro- 
ceedings of  the  day.  I  need  not  enlarge  upon  this  detestable 
scene,  since  there  is  hardly  a  family  in  London  or  West- 
minster which  has  not  had  reason  to  remember  the  day  of 
Mr.  Wilkes's  election.  The  metropolis  of  the  kingdom,  the 
seat  of  justice,  and  the  residence  of  the  sovereign,  and  of  the 
royal  family,  was  left,  for  two  nights  together,  at  the  mercy 
of  a  licentious,  drunken  rabble,  without  the  smallest  guard, 
either  civil  or  military,'  to  secure  the  king's  person,  or-  to 
protect  his  subjects.  Amidst  all  the  horror  and  outrage  of 
these  transactions,  is  there  one  Englishman  endowed  with 
the  smallest  portion  of  reason  or  humanity,  who  can  hear 
without  grief  and  resentment,  that,  even  in  some  of  the  royal 
palaces,  to  avoid  worse  consequences,  illuminations  were 

made  to  celebrate  the  success  of  a ,  who,  after  heaping 

every  possible  insult  on  the  person  of  his  sovereign,  returns 
in  triumph  to  brave  and  outrage  him  again,  even  in  the  place 
of  his  immediate  residence! 

Such  was  the  scene,  of  which  all  the  inhabitants  of  Lon- 
don and  Westminster  were  witnesses  to  their  cost.  Let  us 
now  inquire  what  has  been  the  conduct  of  the  ministry  dur- 
ing the  course  of  it.  Long  before  Mr.  Wilkes  appeared  at 
Guildhall,  it  was  well  known  that  he  was  in  London;  and,  if 
any  measures  had  been  taken  by  the  ministry  to  secure  him 


214  MISCELLANEOUS 

in  consequence  of  his  outlawry,  it  might  undoubtedly  have 
been  done  with  the  greatest  facility.  Why  no  process  was 
sued  for  out  of  the  Court  of  King's  Bench,  let  the  ministers 
answer  if  they  can.  But  they  have  much  more  to  answer  for. 
They  are  responsible  for  all  the  consequences  of  permitting 
this  outlaw  to  appear  at  large,  and  for  all  the  violences  of 
which  he  has  since  been  the  author.  By  their  indolence  and 
neglect,  or  perhaps  in  consequence  of  a  secret  compact  with 
him,  this  man  has  been  suffered  to  throw  the  metropolis  into 
a  flame,  to  offer  new  outrages  to  his  sovereign,  and  at  last  to 
force  his  way  into  parliament,  where,  if  he  were  a  man  of  any 
parliamentary  abilities,  I  doubt  not  but  he  would  reward 
them  as  they  deserve.  In  the  midst  of  all  this  tumult  and 
confusion,  the  Chancellor  of  Great  Britain*  and  the  first 
lord  of  the  treasury!  retire  out  of  town,  and  leave  the  whole 
executive  power  of  the  crown  to  fall  to  the  ground.  In  the 
name  of  God  and  the  laws,  are  such  men  fit  to  govern  a 
great  kingdom?  To  say  that  they  are,  is  an  insult  to  the  com- 
mon understanding  of  mankind,  and  I  hope  our  gracious 
sovereign  will  do  justice  to  himself  and  to  his  people,  by  de- 
priving them  of  a  power,  which  they  have  either  not  courage 
or  not  honesty  enough  to  exert  in  his  service.  I  am  persuaded 
there  is  not  a  man  of  property,  sense,  or  honour  in  this  coun- 
try, who  is  not  ready,  heart  and  hand,  to  support  the  consti- 
tution, and  to  defend  the  sovereign,  though  his  own  imme- 
diate servants  have  deserted  him.  We  have  hitherto  taken 
no  steps  for  our  defence,  because  we  expected  the  protection 
of  government;  but  we  are  still  strong  enough  to  defend  our 
lives  and  properties  against  Mr.  Wilkes  and  his  banditti,  nor 
shall  the  treacherous  example  set  us  by  the  ministry  ever 
induce  us  to  abandon  our  own  rights,  or  those  of  the  chief 
magistrate.  Cf. 

*  Lord  Camden.  f  The  Duke  of  Grafton. 

4  The  editor  has  already  had  occasion  to  observe  in  various  places  that 
C.  was  the  signature  adopted  by  Junius  in  his  private  correspondence 
with  the  printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser.  See  more  especially  the  Private 
Letters  C.  passim.  Edit. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  215 

LETTER  XVIII. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 

Sir,  5  April,  1768. 

There  is  something  so  extraordinary  in  the  conduct  of  the 
ministry,  with  respect  to  Mr.  Wilkes,  that  I  cannot  help  sus- 
pecting they  have  a  secret  motive  for  it,  which  the  public  is 
not  aware  of.  It  is  to  me  inconceivable  that  he  should  have 
been  suffered  to  return  to  England,  and  remain  at  large,  not- 
withstanding his  outlawry; — to  offer  himself  a  candidate  for 
the  metropolis; — to  appear  the  leader  of  violence  and  riot 
uncontrouled; — and  at  last  to  succeed  in  his  enterprize  at 
Brentford; — unless  all  this  had  been  done  with  the  conni- 
vance and  consent  of  the  king's  servants.  My  suspicions  may 
perhaps  be  ill  founded,  but  I  think  there  is  reason  enough  to 
apprehend  that  Mr.  Wilkes  would  never  have  been  permit- 
ted to  go  such  lengths,  if  all  were  well  between  the  ministry 
and  the  Earl  of  Bute.  They  certainly  have  a  design  to  ter- 
rify the  Scotchman,  and  to  keep  him  in  order,  by  producing 
their  tribune  once  more  upon  the  stage.  Let  the  Thane  look 
to  himself!  Mr.  Wilkes,  being  a  man  of  no  sort  of  conse- 
quence in  his  own  person,  can  never  be  supported  but  by 
keeping  up  the  cry,  and  this  cry  can  no  way  be  maintained 
i  but  by  renewing  his  attacks  upon  the  Scotch  favourite  and 
!  his  countrymen.  With  this  key  we  may,  perhaps,  account 
for  the  supineness  and  indifference  with  which  the  ministry 
!  have  seen  the  laws  trampled  on,  and  the  public  peace  and 
tranquillity  destroyed,  by  the  respectable  Mr.  Wilkes,  and 
his  no  less  respectable  friends. 

Yours, 

Q  IN  THE  CORNER*. 


216  MISCELLANEOUS 


LETTER  XIX. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC    ADVERTISER. 

12  April,  1768: 
The  common  lanv  hath  so  admeasured  the  king's  prerogatives,  that 
they  should  not  take  away  nor  prejudice  the  inheritance  of  any. 

Coke's  Instit. 
Sir, 

The  extraordinary  purpose  to  which  an  old  maxim,  or 
rather  dictum  of  the  common  law,  has  lately  been  applied  by 
the  commissioners  of  the  treasury,  has  led  me  to  consider 
upon  what  principles  it  was  originally  founded,  and  whether 
it  be  applicable  to  the  present  circumstances  of  the  British 
constitution.  A  resumption  of  lands  held  under  a  supposed 
grant  from  the  crown,  after  a  possession  of  near  fourscore 
years,  was  an  alarming  measure  to  every  English  gentleman 
of  landed  property,  but  the  principle  on  which  it  was  defended 
was  formidable  enough  to  strike  a  terror  into  men  of  all 
ranks  who  had  either  estates  or  liberty  to  lose.  A  ministry, 
determined  to  invade  the  liberties  or  property  of  the  subject, 
may  in  our  law  books  find  antiquated  maxims  to  support  the 
most  violent  stretches  of  prerogative;  and  if  it  be  admitted 
that  no  length  of  possession  is  good  against  the  crown,  I 
hardly  know  that  right  or  privilege,  much  less  any  tract  of 
soil  possessed  by  the  subject,  which  may  not  be  disputed  or 
resumed  at  the  pleasure  of  the  sovereign.  It  has  been  a 
fashion  with  some  writers  to  represent  the  feudal  govern- 
ment as  a  system  of  liberty:  but  I  must  confess  that  a  con- 
stitution, wherein  the  king  is  supposed  to  be  the  original 
owner  of  all  the  lands;  wherein  we  have  seen  the  nobility  at 
perpetual  war  with  the  sovereign,  and  bringing  their  vassals 
into  the  field  against  him,  or  against  one  another;  and  where- 
in the  whole  body  of  the  people  was  held  in  absolute  depen- 
dance  upon  the  petty  tyrants,  does  not  present  to  me  the  idea 
of  political  liberty  in  any  part  of  it.  The  greatest  commenda- 
tion it  deserves  is,  perhaps,  that  it  was  capable  of  improve- 
ment.  Accordingly  it  has  been  so  altered  and  so  mended? 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  217 

that  a  man  must  be  well  read  in  law  to  discover  any  trace  of 
it  in  the  present  form  of  our  government;  and  I  am  justified 
by  modern  statutes  in  asserting,  that  we  never  thought  our 
constitution  completely  settled  upon  the  basis  of  freedom, 
until  every  mark  of  feudal  services  and  dependance  was 
abolished  by  parliament. 

But  though  great  improvements  have  been  made,  there 
remains  yet  a  great  deal  to  be  done;  and  if  the  crown  be  per- 
mitted to  recur  to  maxims  of  law  which  prevailed  when  a 
system  of  government  subsisted  very  different  from  the  pre- 
sent, the  most  arbitrary  measures  may  still  pass  for  a  legal 
exertion  of  the  royal  prerogative.   I  am  still  the  king's  liege 
man,  and  may  be  sent  from  one  part  of  the  country  to  the 
other,  from  the  care  of  my  family  and  affairs,  and  perhaps  in 
my  absence  a  nullum  tempus  may  deprive  me  of  my  estate* 
The  argument  alleged  by  lawyers  in  favour  of  their  own 
rule,  that  no  delay  shall  bar  the  king's  right,  (viz.  "  because 
the  law  intends  that  the  king  is  always  busied  for  the  public 
good,  therefore  has  not  leisure  to  assert  his  right  within  the 
times  limited  to  subjects,")  will  hardly  bear  a  strict  exami- 
nation, especially  if  referred  to  the  present  establishment. 
Either  it  is  not  well  founded  in  fact,  or  the  reasoning  on 
which  it  depends  will  prove  too  much.   It  is  not  true  at  this 
day,  and  I  doubt  whether  it  ever  were  true,  that  the  law 
(which  is  the  solemn  sense  and  opinion  of  the  people)  sup- 
poses the  king  so  continually  employed  about  public  affairs, 
as  to  be  entitled  to  an  extraordinary  indulgence  in  the  neglect 
of  those  precautions  which  concern  the  private  interests  of 
the  crown.   If,  indeed,  the  king  were  supposed  to  transact 
and  govern  the  affairs  of  the  kingdom  in  his  own  person;  or 
if  he  had  not  a  number  of  officers  whose  duty  it  is  to  take  care 
of  and  transact  every  business  relative  to  his  private  rights, 
and  private  property,  an  indulgence  of  this  nature  to  a  chief 
magistrate,  so  much  employed,  and  so  little  assisted,  might 
not  be  thought  very  unreasonable.  But  when,  on  the  one 
hand,  the  ministers  of  the  crown  are  alone  responsible  for 
the  conduct  of  public  affairs;  and  when,  on  the  other,  it  is 
the  business  of  the  treasurv,  of  the  exchequer,  of  the  land 
Vol.  II.  '   2E 


218  MISCELLANEOUS 

surveyors,  and  of  a  multitude  of  other  officers  to  overset 
and  manage  the  revenues  and  distribution  of  the  crown  lands, 
I  hold  it  to  be  highly  unconstitutional  as  well  as  absurd,  to 
introduce  the  person  of  the  sovereign  as  claiming  an  indul- 
gence to  himself  for  neglects,  which  are  properly  the  neglects 
of  his  servants.  But  admitting  the  excuse  of  public  employ- 
ment for  private  negligence  to  be  valid,  let  us  see  how  far  it 
will  reach.  If  the  sovereign,  on  account  of  his  high  occupa- 
tions, be  entitled  to  such  a  privilege,  his  ministers  certainly 
have  a  claim  to  their  share  of  it.  The  lords,  who  are  heredi- 
tary counsellors  of  the  crown; — the  judges; — -every  member 
of  the  House  of  Commons,  and  ambassadors  sent  abroad, 
may  all  plead  public  employment;  nor  can  there  be  any  good 
reason  alleged  why  every  officer  engaged  in  the  public  ser- 
vice, from  the  high  chancellor  down  to  the  bum-bailiff,  should 
not  be  allowed  his  proportion  of  nullum  tempus,  according 
to  their  several  ranks,  and  the  time  they  continue  in  employ- 
ment. But  it  were  endless  to  refute  arguments  which  have 
neither  truth  nor  meaning. 

The  maxim,  that  nullum  tempus  occurrit  regi,  if  ever, 
could  only  be  true  under  the  feudal  government.  It  was 
then  a  national  interest  to  preserve  the  royal  demesne  entire, 
because  the  support  of  the  royal  dignity  depended  upon  it. 
The  king,  out  of  his  revenue,  defrayed  the  expense  of  his 
family  and  government,  and  never  applied  for  aids  to  the 
people,  but  upon  pretence  of  extraordinary  emergencies.  By 
preserving  this  separate  property  to  the  king,  the  people  in 
effect  preserved  their  own,  and  therefore  admitted  without 
reluctance  a  maxim  introduced  by  the  lawyers  of  the  crown, 
since  it  tended  to  deter  individuals  from  invading  a  branch 
of  royal  revenue,  any  deficiency  in  which  must  have  been 
made  good  out  of  the  public  stock.  Nothing  less  than  a  rea- 
son of  this  public  nature  could  have  procured  submission  to 
a  doctrine  full  of  hardship  and  oppression  to  the  subject,  and 
which,  in  favour  of  the  crown,  directly  contradicted  those 
rules  of  common  law,  by  w  hicli  the  possession  of  property 
"between  man  and  man  was  secured. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  219 

To  revive  and  enforce  a  maxim  of  this  sort,  when  not  one 
of  the  reasons  subsist  on  which  it  was  originally  founded, 
when  the  king's  family  and  government  are  supported  by  a 
fixed  revenue  of  eight  hundred  thousand  pounds  raised  upon 
the  people,  is  certainly  a  most  unwarrantable  and  a  most 
dangerous  attempt.  Under  the  present  board  of  treasury, 
the  reign  of  Empson  and  Dudley  seems  to  flourish  again; 
and  where  is  the  man  who  can  say  his  liberty  or  his  property  is 
secure  to  him,  if  antiquated  doctrines  and  obsolete  laws  may 
be  brought  to  life  at  the  breath  of  a  young,  inconsiderate, 
arbitrary  minister,  and  sent  abroad  to  attack  every  subject 
whom  he  shall  thinJc  proper  to  call  an  enemy  to  government? 
A  minister  capable  of  recommending  such  measures  to  the 
crown,  calls  to  my  mind  the  idea  which  our  ancestors  had 
of  some  black  magician  conjuring  up  infernal  spirits  from 
the  depths  of  the  earth  and  of  the  sea,  and  letting  them  loose 
to  the  destruction  of  mankind.  Delusions  of  this  sort  have 
indeed  been  long  since  exploded;  but  there  are  other  diabo- 
lical arts,  which  certainly  do  exist,  which  ministers  practise, 
but  which  I  hope  will  be  as  little  able  to  maintain  themselves 
against  the  improved  understanding  and  well-directed  firm- 
ness of  the  English  nation.  C. 


LETTER  XX. 

For  the  Public  Advertiser, 

23  April,  1768. 

TO  HIS  GRACE  THE  DUKE  OF  GRAFTON. 

Is  it  enough  that  Abra  should  be  great 
In  the  wall' d  palace  or  the  rural  seat? 
Oh,  no!  Jerusalem  combined  must  see 
My  ofien  shame  and  boasted  infamy. 

My  Lord, 
Permit  me  to  congratulate  your  grace  upon  a  piece  oi 
good  fortune  which  few  men,  of  the  best  established  reputa- 
tion, have  been  able  to  attain  to.  The  most  accomplished 
persgns  have  usually  some  defect,  some  weakness  in  theb 


220  MISCELLANEOUS 

characters,  which  diminishes  the  lustre  of  their  brighter  qua- 
lifications. Tiberius  had  his  forms: — Charteris  now  and  then 
deviated  into  honesty;  and  even  Lord  Bute  prefers  the  sim- 
plicity of  seduction  to  the  poignant  pleasures  of  a  rape.  But 
yours,  my  lord,  is  a  perfect  character:  through  every  line  of 
public  and  of  private  life  you  are  consistent  with  yourself. 
After  doing  every  thing,  in  your  public  station,  that  a  minis- 
ter might  reasonably  be  ashamed  of,  you  have  determined, 
with  a  noble  spirit  of  uniformity,  to  mark  your  personal  his- 
tory by  such  strokes  as  a  gentleman,  without  any  great  dis- 
grace to  his  assurance,  might  be  permitted  to  blush  for.  I 
had  already  conceived  a  high  opinion  of  your  talents  and 
disposition.  Whether  the  property  of  the  subject,   or  the 
general  rights  of  the  nation  were  to  be  invaded;  or  whether 
you  were  tired   of  one  lady,  and   chose   another  for   the 
honourable  companion  of  your  pleasures;  whether  it  was  a 
horse-race  or  a  hazard-table;  a  noble   disregard  of  forms 
seemed  to  operate  through  all  your  conduct.  But  you  have 
exceeded  my  warmest  expectations.  Highly  as  I  thought  of 
you,  your  grace  must  pardon  me  when  I  confess  that  there 
was  one  effort  which  I  did  not  think  you  equal  to.  I  did  not 
think  you  capable  of  exhibiting  the   lovely  Thais*  at  the 
opera-house,  of  sitting  a  whole  night  by  her  side,  of  calling 
for  her  carriage  yourself,  and  of  leading  her  to  it  through  a 
crowd  of  the  first  men  and  women  in  this  kingdom.  To  a 
mind  like  yours,  my  lord,  such  an  outrage  to  your  wife,  such 
a  triumph  over  decency,  such  insult  to  the  company,  must 
have  afforded  the  highest  gratification.  When  all  the  ordinary 
resources  of  pleasure  were  exhausted,  this  I  presume  was 
your  novissima  voluptas.  It  is  of  a  lasting  nature,  my  lord, 
and  I  dare  say  will  give  you  as  much  pleasure  upon  reflec- 
tion, as  it  did  in  the   enjoyment.  After  so  honourable  an 
achievement,  a  poet's  imagination  could  add  but  one  ray 
more  to  the  lustre  of  your  character.  Obtain  a  divorcef, 

*  Mis * Parsons,  afterwards  Lady  Maynartl.  Edit. 

\  The  Duke  of  Grafton  was,  subsequently  to  the  date  of  this  letter,  di- 
vorced from  Miss  Liddel,  then  Duchess  of  Grafton,  and  married,  not  the 
lady  in  question,  hut  Miss  Wrottesley,  niece  to  the  Duchess  of  Bedford 
See  Junius,  Letter  xn.  Edit. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  221 

marry  the  lady,  and  I  do  not  doubt  but  Mr.  Bradshaw  will 
be  civil  enough  to  give  her  away  with  an  honest,  artless 
smile  of  approbation. 


LETTER  XXI. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF   THE  PUBLIC  ADVERTISER. 
SiU,  23  April,  1768. 

If  I  were  to  characterize  the  present  ministry  from  any 
single  virtue  which  shines  predominant  in  their  administra- 
tion, I  should  fix  upon  duplicity  as  the  proper  word  to 
express  it. 

I  would  not  here  be  misunderstood:  I  do  not  by  this  mean 
only  the  little  sneaking  quality,  commonly  called  double- 
dealing,  which  every  petty-fogging  rascal  may  attain  to;  but 
that  real  duplicity  of  character  which  our  ministers  have 
assumed  to  themselves,  by  which  every  member  of  their 
body  acts  in  two  distinct  capacities,  and,  Janus-like,  bears 
two  faces  and  two  tongues,  either  of  which  may  give  the  lie 
to  the  other  without  danger  to  his  reputation. 

This  is  the  present  catholic  political  faith,  which,  unless  a 
man  believes,  he  shall  not  get  a  place;  and  if  people  would 
attend  to  this,  they  would  be  able  to  account  for  many  of 
our  great  men's  actions,  which  are  unaccountable  any  other 
way. 

By  this  rule  a  man  may  say  as  a  judge,  that  the  loss  of  an 
Englishman's  liberty  for  twenty-four  hours  only  is  grievous 
beyond  estimation;  and  then  as  a  minister  may  declare,  that 
forty  days'  tyranny  is  a  trifling  burthen,  which  any  English- 
man may  bear*. 

As  a  member  of  parliament,  a  man  may  give  his  word 
that  a  certain  bill  shall  be  dropped;  and  the  next  day,  as  a 
chancellor  of  the  exchequer,  may  bring  it  into  the  house. 
A  first  lord  of  the  treasury  may  declare  upon  his  honour 

*  In  allusion  to  Lord  Camden's  opinion  upon  the  power  of  the  crown 
to  suspend  an  act  of  parliament.  See.  the  subject  further  discussed  in 
Jlnils,  Letter  lix.  Edit. 


222  MISCELLANEOUS 

that  he  has  no  concern  in  India  stock;  but  there  is  nothing 
in  this  to  hinder  him  as  a  private  man  from  having  a  share 
with  any  young  lady  of  virtue  to  the  amount  of  20,000/. 

In  those  cases,  you  see,  the  duplicity  of  character  in  which 
they  act,  covers  the  parties  from  all  sort  of  blame:  but  I  will 
now  do  honour  to  the  noble  duke,  who,  from  under  the  foot- 
stool of  gouty  legs*,  has  crept  into  the  elbow  chair,  who, 
though  green  in  years,  is  ripe  in  devices.  It  is  he  who  has 
carried  this  double-faced  virtue  to  its  greatest  pitch.  He  has 
not  only  practised  it  with  great  success  in  public  affairs,  but 
has  also  lately  introduced  it  into  dealings  between  man  and 
man. 

Every  body  knows  the  story  of  nullum  tempus,  and  the 
application  of  it  to  rob  the  Duke  of  Portland  of  30,000/. 
The  Duke  of  Grafton  (as  set  forth  in  a  case  lately  publish- 
ed) upon  a  representation,  before  any  proceedings  were  had 
in  the  affair,  did  actually  promise  to  the  Duke  of  Portland, 
"  That  no  step  should  be  taken  towards  the  decision  of  the 
matter  in  question  till  his  grace's  title  should  be  stated,  re- 
ferred to,  and  reported  on,  by  the  proper  officer,  and  fully 
and  maturely  considered  by  the  board  of  treasury." — Had 
the  Duke  of  Portland  been  fully  apprised  of  the  new  doctrine 
of  the  two- fold  state  of  ministers,  he  would  have  considered 
this  promise  (as  it  was  really  meant)  as  illusory,  and  only 
an  expedient  to  lull  him  asleep  while  the  business  was  going 
on.  But  his  grace  knew  no  more  of  this  maxim  than  if  he 
had  been  an  India  director,  and  thought  that  a  promise  was 
a  promise  in  whatever  character  it  was  given:  so  while  he  in 
full  confidence  was  preparing  the  proofs  of  his  right,  the  af- 
fair in  dispute  was  given  away,  and  the  new  grant  to  Sir 
James  Lowther  made  out,  signed,  and  sealed  in  the  treasury 
without  even  "  his  grace's  title  being  stated,  referred  to,  or 
reported  on,  by  the  proper  officer,  or  fully  and  maturely 
considered  by  the  board." 

Lest  any  one  should  think  that  I  partially  ascribe  this  con- 
duct of  the  Duke  of  Grafton  to  my  favourite  principle  of  two 

*  Lord  Chatham's.  Edit. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  223 

natures,  when  it  ought  to  be  layed  to  some  other  of  his  grace's 
virtues,  I  shall  here  quote  a  reply  to  the  Duke  of  Portland's 
case,  lately  published  (as  it  is  said)  under  the  auspices  of 
the  treasury,  where  this  doctrine  is  defended  with  equal 
modesty  and  truth.  The  writer  begins  by  admitting  the  pro- 
mise, which  he  says  was  inadvertently  given  by  the  Duke  of 
Grafton;  but,  then  he  says,  "  since  he  was  the  king's  servant, 
and  had  no  title  to  the  making  this  promise,  he  perceived  he 
was  not  in  honour  bound  to  adhere  to  it." — Now  here  is  a 
fair  distinction  between  the  king's  servant  and  the  man  of 
honour,  a  distinction  which,  I  believe,  few  people  at  present 
are  disposed  to  deny.  His  grace  (who  has  undoubtedly  very 
delicate  perceptions)  perceived  that  as  a  king's  minister  he 
was  not  bound  to  keep  a  promise  which  he  had  made  as  a 
private  man;  and  in  this  (continues  the  pamphleteer)  "  he 
can  be  supported  by  the  soundest  casuists." — I  am  not  deep- 
ly read  in  authors  of  that  professed  title,  but  I  remember 
seeing  Bassambaum,  Saurez,  Molina,  and  a  score  of  other 
Jesuitical  books,  burnt  at  Paris  for  their  sound  casuistry  by 
the  hands  of  the  common  hangman.  I  do  not  know  that  they 
have  yet  found  their  way  to  England,  unless  perchance  it  be 
to  the  library  of  his  Grace  of  Grafton,  where  they  probably 
i  stand  with  the  chapter  of  promises  dog-eared  down  for  the 
perusal  of  scrupulous  statesmen. 

This  doctrine,  once  fully  established,  will  add  a  great 
facility  to  business,  and  prevent  unnecessary  delays:  for 
example — in  former  times  a  minister  would  have  been  ex- 
ceedingly hampered  with  such  a  promise  as  we  have  here 
!  cited:  he  would  have  shifted,  and  delayed,  and  played  the 
back-game  to  have  got  rid  of  it,  or  to  reconcile  the  breach 
to  his  conscience  and  reputation:  but  here  you  see  there  was 
no  unnecessary  delay;  the  business  went  on;  and  he  who 
acknowledged  that  he  had  given  his  word  in  a  private  capa- 
city, brings  the  book  to  prove  that  as  a  first  lord  of  the  trea- 
{ sury  "  he  was  not  bound  to  adhere  to  it," — and  this  is  sound 
casuistry.  Thus  a  man  who  is  dexterous  in  a  state  legerde- 
main, may  play  his  two  characters  like  cups  and  balls;  speak, 


224  MISCELLANEOUS 

write,  read,  lie,  promise,  swear,  and  you  can  never  catch 
him  till  the  box  drop  out  of  his  hand. 

I  proposed  to  have  made  this  a  complete  panegyric  on  the 
Duke  of  Grafton;  but  I  find  it  extremely  difficult  to  draw 
one  character  of  a  man  that  acts  in  tzvo.  If,  however,  my 
poor  attempt  towards  it  should  find  favour  in  his  sight,  I 
hope  he  will  on  a  future  occasion  afford  me  the  means  of  dis- 
tinguishing between  his  two  characters,  as  Moliere's  Sosia 
does  between  the  two  Amphitrions,  "  c'est  l'Amphitrion 
chez  qui  l'on  dine." 

BIFRONS. 


LETTER  XXII. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC  ADVERTISER. 

6  May,  1768. 
Nil  admirari. — Hor. 
Sir, 
When  the  advocates  of  the  ministry  assure  us  that  there 
never  was  a  set  of  men  more  careful  of  the  happiness  of  his 
Majesty's  subjects,  I  presume  it  is  Horace's  sense  of  happi- 
ness which  they  would  be  understood  to  promote.  If  it  be 
their  design  to  reduce  us  to  a  state  of  resignation  in  which 
we  shall  wonder  at  nothing  they  do,  their  bitterest  enemies 
must  confess  that  their  endeavours  to  make  us  happy  have 
been  no  less  indefatigable  than  ingenious.  By  a  regular  pro- 
gression from  surprize  to  wonder,  from  wonder  to  astonish- 
ment, and  so  on  through  all  the  forms  of  admiration,  they 
have  at  last  conducted  us  to  that  philosophical  state  of 
repose,  which  may  set  even  the  miracles  of  the  present  minis- 
try at  defiance.  If  the  force  of  example,  beyond  all  ethics, 
had  not  made  me  as  callous  as  a  shoeing-horn,  the  contents 
of  Saturday-night's  Gazette  would,  I  confess,  have  made  jn* 
stare.  When  his  Majesty  (God  bless  him!)  is  in  perfect 
health,  to  be  informed  that  the  first  session  of  a  new  parlia- 
ment is  to  be  opened  by  commission,  is  a  novelty,  which, 
had  I  been  less  confirmed  in  my  principles  than  I  am,  would 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  225 

I  own  have  filled  me  with  a  certain  portion  of  amazement*. 
That  the  minister  himself  should  have  his  reasons  for  not 
being  very  desiruus  to  meet  a  parliament,  or  that  he  should 
wish  to  answer  for  his  conduct  by  confusion,  is  not  so  extra- 
ordinary; but  that  he  should  give  such  advice  to  a  prince, 
bel«  ved,  adored  by  his  people,  is  a  step,  which,  in  my  pre- 
sent condition,  does  every  thing  bur  surprize  me.  Is  it  pos- 
sible, Mr.  Printer,  that  the  ministry  should  not  know  what 
sort  of  interpretation  will  be  given  to  this  measure;  or  did 
they  -nean  to  give  the  finishing  stroke  to  Mr.  Wilkes's  tri- 
umph, and  to  the  dishonour  which  they,  and  they  alone,  have 
heaped  upon  the  crown.  I  protest,  Sir,  I  had  very  near  be- 
trayed my  principles,  and  suffered  an  indecent  expression  of 
surprize  to  escape  me.  At  a  time  when  the  residence  of  the 
sovereign  was  really  exposed  to  violence  and  insultf,  these 
worthy  ministers  gallantly  retreated  from  the  danger;  but 
now,  to  make  amends  for  that  desertion,  they  affect  a  care 
for  the  king's  security,  equally  ridiculous  and  disgraceful. 
What,  Sir,  is  government  in  their  hands  really  sunk  so  low 
that  they  dare  not  hazard  a  meeting  between  their  sovereign 
and  his  parliament?  Or  are  they  afraid  that  another  language 
might  be  held  to  parliament  than  that  which  they  dictate; 
that  some  expression  of  a  just  resentment  of  their  baseness 
should  escape;  or  do  they  acknowledge  to  the  world  their 
apprehensions  of  the  populace?  If  that  be  the  case,  I  can 
only  say  that  the  infamy  of  the  measure  can  be  exceeded  by 
nothing  but  the  vileness  of  the  motive. 

These  distant  hints,  I  hope,  Sir,  (as  I  think  the  ministry 
do  not  pique  themselves  much  upon  steadiness)  may  appear 

*  From  the  London  Gazette,  Whitehall,  April  30.  It  being  His  Majesty's 
royal  intention,  that  the  parliament,  which  is  summoned  to  meet  on  Tues- 
day the  10th  day  of  May  next,  should  then  meet  and  sit;  the  King  has  been 
pleased  to  direct  a  commission  to  pass  the  great  seal,  appointing-  and  au- 
thorizing his  royal  highness  the  Duke  of  Gloucester,  his  royal  highness 
the  Duke  of  Cumberland,  Thomas,  Lord  Archbishop  of  Canterbury,  and 
other  lords,  to  open  and  hold  the  said  parliament  on  the  said  10th  day  of 
May  next,  being  the  day  of  the  return  of  the  writs  of  summons.  Edit. 

f  See  note  in  Vol.  I.  p.  79,  and  Miscellaneous  Letters,  No.  xvn.  p.  21?, 
of  this  \    1.  Edit. 

Vol.  II.  2  F 


226  MISCELLANEOUS 

time  enough  to  induce  them  to  recommend  a  different  sys- 
tem, more  worthy  of   the  crown,  though   less  worthy  of' 
themselves.  C. 


LETTER  XXIII. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 
Sie,  12  May,  1768. 

I  have  read  in  your  paper  of  this  day  a  second  letter  in 
defence  of  the  conduct  of  the  treasury  relative  to  the  late 
extraordinary  grant.  That  conduct  was  a  specimen  of  their 
principles.  They  have  now  thought  fit  to  give  the  public  a 
sample  of  their  reasoning. 

Their  letter  ought  to  have  been  (if  it  had  been  what  it 
pretends  to  be)  an  answer  to  the  several  accusations  laid 
against  them  in  a  pamphlet,  entitled,  "  The  Duke  of  Port- 
land's Case."  Their  answer  is  an  attempt  to  prove,  that  the 
Duke  of  Portland  had  no  right  in  law  to  those  lands,  of  which 
he  and  his  family  have  so  long  continued  in  possession,  and 
which  have  been  lately  granted  by  the  treasury  to  Sir  James 
Lowther,  son-in-law  to  the  Earl  of  Bute. 

I  do  not  mean  here  to  make  any  reply  to  the  futile  argu- 
ments by  which  the  ministers,  or  their  advocate,  endeavour 
to  establish  this  point.  Because  the  point  itself  is,  as  they 
know,  wholly  foreign  to  the  question;  and  does  in  no  sort 
concern  the  public.  They  shall  not  be  permitted  to  evade  in 
this  manner  the  real  edge  of  the  charge  that  lies  against 
them. 

The  charge  against  them  is  not  that  they  have  granted  to 
Sir  James  Lowther  an  estate,  which,  in  law,  is  the  right  of 
the  Duke  of  Portland;  but  that  they  partially,  and  in  many 
parts  of  the  proceeding,  surreptitiously,  upon  the  bare  re- 
port of  a  subordinate  officer,  without  suffering  his  vouchers 
to  be  examined,  without  hearing  counsel,  or  allowing  time  or 
means  of  defence  to  the  party,  or  of  due  information  to  them- 
selves, have  violated  the  equitable  and  presumptive  rights  of 
long  and  undisputed  possession,  for  the  purposes  of  undue 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  227 

influence  at  an  election,  and  of  paying  a  base  court  to  a  clan- 
destine and  dangerous  power. 

This  is  the  charge  against  them;  which  they  have  not  at- 
tempted to  answer;  which  they  never  can  answer;  and  which 
will  fix  a  brand  upon  their  foreheads,  that  no  sophistry  will 
be  able  to  efface,  and  no  veils  of  ministerial  artifice  will  be 
thick  enough  to  conceal,  from  the  eyes  of  an  indignant  and 
an  injured  people. 

The  ministers  affect  to  be  surprised  that  the  writer  of  the 
Duke  of  Portland's  case  has  taken  no  notice  of  his  grace's 
title,  and  has  not  set  forth  the  surveyor-general's  report 
against  it:  they  are  at  liberty  to  amuse  themselves  with  such 
observations.  I  hope  that  writer  will  never  give  them  any 
disturbance  in  their  learned  pleadings  on  this  subject.  He 
has,  I  trust,  too  much  sense  to  moot  in  the  public  papers  the 
legal  construction  of  a  clause  in  a  crown  grant. 

It  is  a  matter  of  perfect  indifference  to  the  public,  whether 
the  grant,  for  instance,  of  the  manor  of  Dale  is  sufficient  to 
convey  Szuale  also,  as  its  appendant;  or  whether  Swale  ought 
specifically  to  be  named.  These  are  not  the  sort  of  questions 
with  which  we  are  affected:  the  ministers  may  think  it  wise, 
perhaps,  to  hazard  the  good  faith  of  a  crown  grant  upon  such 
subtle  criticisms.  Their  operation  one  way  or  the  other  (if 
prescription  had  not  intervened,)  would  not  have  been  a 
matter  greatly  to  concern  the  public:  but  it  does  concern  the 
public,  and  in  the  highest  degree,  whether  long  quiet,  undis- 
puted possession,  which  is  the  best  of  titles  against  the  sub- 
ject, shall  or  shall  not  be  a  title  at  all  against  the  crown? 
Whether  a  treasury  availing  itself  of  a  remnant  of  odious, 
and  for  a  long  time  inactive  barbarism,  shall  upon  points  of 
of  legal  subtilty  endeavour  to  shake  that  title?  Whether  they 
shall  refuse  a  search  of  the  only  material  office  for  settling 
the  doubts  that  they  raised?  Whether  they  shall  decline 
taking  the  opinion  of  the  king's  law  servants  on  such  impor- 
tant points  of  law?  Whether  they  shall  refuse  to  hear  the 
party  by  his  counsel?  And  whether  without  any  of  those 
forms,  sense  of  justice,  and  of  all  decency  and  candour,  they 
shall  arm  a  wealthy  and  powerful  informer  with  a  crown 
claim  to  harass  and  oppress  the  subject. 


228  MISCELLANEOUS 

These  are  the  points  in  the  Duke  of  Portland's  case,  in 
which  the  public  is  concerned.  If  no  prescription  is  pleadable 
against  the  crown,  and  if  the  treasury,  without  hearing,  is 
suffered  at  pleasure  to  halloo  an  informer  at  your  estate,  on 
the  bare  report  of  a  surveyor's  duty,  their  own  creature: — 
woe  to  the  property  of  England!  Remember  that  almost  all 
that  property  has  at  one  time  or  other  flowed  from  royal 
grants.  No  possessor,  no  purchaser,  no  mortgagee  is  safe; 
no  further  safe  than  he  is  covered  by  the  act  of  James  the 
first,  which  is  now  sought  to  be  converted  from  a  tempo- 
rary regulation  into  a  perpetual  rule  of  law. 

That  truly  wise  and  patriotic  bill,  which  the  ministerial 
gentlemen  are  pleased  to  term  factious,  was  what  our  an- 
cestors called  for,  and  so  far  as  it  regarded  themselves,  ob- 
tained, on  the  alarm  of  just  such  sort  of  grants  as  this  to  Sir 
James  Lowther.  They  did  not  contend  that  the  grants 
should  be  made,  only  in  cases  where  the  crown  had  a  plausi- 
ble title.  No;  they  maintained  "  that  such  titles  prior  to 
sixty  years  should  not  be  set  up  at  all."  They  demanded  that 
the  crown  should  litigate  with  the  subject  on  the  same  terms 
of  equity  on  which  the  subjects  litigated  with  one  another; 
and  that  sixty  years  of  possession  should  bar  a  royal  as  well 
as  a  private  claim. 

They  lived,  indeed,  in  an  age  of  extravagant  prerogative, 
and  they  could  not  obtain  this  right  fully  for  posterity:  but 
they  did  what  they  could,  and  secured  it  for  themselves. 
The  arguments  of  the  ministry  are  not  against  the  Duke  of 
Portland,  but  against  the  doctrine  of  prescription  itself; 
against  natural  justice;  and  against  the  principles  of  that  wise 
and  constitutional,  though  (by  the  misfortune  of  its  time) 
imperfect  law,  the  statute  of  the  21st  of  King  James  the  first. 

What  do  we  care,  whether  this  dormant  and  antiquated 
claim  of  the  crown  be  well  or  ill  founded  in  strict  law?  I 
take  it  for  granted  that  it  has  no  foundation;  and  make  no 
sort  of  doubt  that  when  it  comes  to  trial,  it  will  appear 
scandalously  groundless.  Besides  the  favourable  presump- 
tion that  ought  to  operate  for  possession,  the  whole  conduct 
of  the  treasury  gives  me  a  right  to  conclude  against  them.  If 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  229 

they  were  so  sure  of  the  validity  of  their  claim,  why  did 
they  not  a  little  discuss  the  grounds  of  the  surveyor's  report, 
and  order  him  to  produce  his  vouchers?  How  could  it  hurt 
this  or  any  other  fair  claim  (supposing  this  a  fair  one,)  to  have 
the  records  in  his  office  inspected?  Would  a  fair  claim  be 
hurt  by  having  it  openly  and  solemnly  debated  by  counsel? 
Any  set  of  men  who  have  regard  even  to  decorum  in  their 
injustice,  could  never  have  acted  with  this  barefaced  par- 
tiality to  one  person,  and  with  such  a  scandalous  spirit  of 
oppression  towards  another. 

It  was  in  their  official  capacity  they  ought  to  have  seen  the 
right  of  the  crown  to  make  this  grant  defended,  and  the 
right  of  the  Duke  of  Portland  examined.  They  ought  to 
have  had  the  king's  counsel  to  cover  them  with  their  opinions 
and  arguments  in  point  of  law;  and  not  to  have  first  passed 
the  grant  without  hearing  or  examination,  and  then  trusted 
for  their  apology  to  a  legal  discussion  argued  miserably,  and 
without  authority,  in  a  common  newspaper.  Their  arguments 
might  have  been  produced  with  some  grace  and  some  weight 
to  the  public,  when  it  was  known  that  they  had  been  offi- 
cially considered,  and  fairly  canvassed  among  all  the  parties 
concerned,  before  the  act  was  done;  and  that  these  arguments 
were  the  grounds  of  their  conduct,  not  excuses  for  their  de- 
linquency. At  present  they  can  only  excite  contempt  for 
their  weak  defence  of  those  actions,  whose  atrociousness  had 
before  merited  the  abhorrence  of  all  good  men. 

VALERIUS. 


LETTER  XXIV. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF    THE  PUBLIC    ADVERTISER. 

Sir,  19  May,  1/68. 

An  officer  of  the  guards  on  whose  veracity  I  can  rely,  has 

informed  me,  that  the  secretary  at  war  has  thought  proper 

to  write  a  letter  of  thanks  to  the  commanding  officer  of  the 

troops  lately  employed  in  St.  George's  Fields*.   The  sub- 

*  As  this  letter  is  frequently  alluded  to  by  Jusius  in  the  course  of  the 
present  work,  we  shall  here  insert  a  copy  of  it: — 

«  War- 


230  MISCELLANEOUS 

stance  of  it,  as  well  as  I  can  remember,  is  rather  of  an  ex- 
traordinary nature,  and  I  think  deserves  the  attention  and 
consideration  of  the  public.  I  understand  that  his  lordship 
thanks  them  in  the  king's  name,  for  their  good  behaviour, 
and  assures  them,  that  his  Majesty  highly  approves  of  their 
conduct.  He  farther  engages  his  promise,  that  whatever  bad 
consequences  may  ensue,  they  may  depend  upon  the  utmost 
assistance  and   support  that   his   office   can  afford   them*. 

"  Sir,  "  War-Office,  11  May,  1768. 

"  Having  this  day  had  the  honour  of  mentioning  to  the  king  the  beha- 
viour of  the  detachments  from  the  several  battalions  of  foot-guards  which 
have  been  lately  employed  in  assisting  the  civil  magistrates,  and  preserv- 
ing the  public  peace,  I  have  great  pleasure  in  informing  you,  that  his 
Majesty  highly  approved  of  the  conduct  of  both  the  officers  and  men,  and 
means  that  his  Majesty's  approbation  should  be  communicated  to  them 
through  you.  Employing  the  troops  on  so  disagreeable  a  service  always 
gives  me  pain;  but  the  circumstances  of  the  times  make  it  necessary.  I 
am  persuaded  they  see  that  necessity,  and  will  continue,  as  they  have  done, 
to  perf  i  m  their  duty  with  alacrity:  I  beg  you  will  be  pleased  to  assure 
them  that  every  possible  regard  shall  be  shewn  to  them:  their  zeal  and 
good  behaviour  upon  this  occasion  deserve  it;  and  in  case  any  disagree- 
able circumstance  should  happen  in  the  execution  of  their  duty,  they  shall 
have  every  defence  and  protection  that  the  law  can  authorise,  and  this 
office  can  give. 

*•  I  have  the  honour  to  be, 
"  Sir, 
"  Your  most  obedient  and  most 
humble  servant, 

"  Baurixgtox.'' 
"  Field  officer  in  staff  waiting  for  the 

three  regiments  of  foot-guards. 
"  Officers  for  guard  on  Saturday  next, 

Lieut.  Col.  Groin,  &c.  &.c."  Edit. 

*  In  the  riot  here  alluded  to,  which  originated  from  a  vast  concourse  of 
people  assembled  together  opposite  the  King's  Bench  prison,  on  May 
10,  in  the  expectation  that  Wilkes  would  be  liberated  from  it  on  this  day 
in  order  to  take  his  seat  in  parliament  (it  being  the  first  day  of  its  session), 
about  fourteen  persons  were  shot  and  more  wounded  by  the  precipitate 
firing  of  the  military.  Among  the  rest  was  a  young  man  of  the  name  of 
Allen,  who  had  taken  no  part  in  the  tumult,  and  was  slain  in  an  out-house 
belonging  to  his  father  (who  lived  in  the  neighbourhood,)  in  the  very  act 
of  imploring  mercy  of  the  soldiers  who  shot  him.  Some  of  the  military 
more  immediately  engaged  were  secured  by  the  civil  power,  and  were  on 
the  point  of  taking  their  trial  for  the  murder.  And  it  is  to  this  transaction 
the  letter  alludes.  Edit. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  231 

Without  entering  into  the  evidence  on  which  the  coroner's 
verdict  against  an  officer  and  some  soldiers  of  the  guards 
was  founded,  I  shall  not  scruple  to  say  that  this  mention  of 
the  King's  name  is  very  improper  and  indecent.  The  father 
of  his  people  undoubtedly  laments  the  fatal  necessity  which 
has  occasioned  the  murder  of  one  of  his  subjects,  but  cannot 
be  supposed  to  approve  highly  of  a  conduct  which  has  had 
dreadful  consequences.  An  event  of  this  shocking  nature 
may  admit  of  excuse  and  mitigation  from  circumstances  of 
necessity,  but  can  never  be  the  object  of  the  highest  royal 
approbation; — much  less  was  it  proper  to  signify  such  strong 
approbation  of  a  conduct  which  includes  a  fact  still  subjudice, 
and  the  particulars  of  which  are  not  yet  known  with  any  de- 
gree of  certainty. 

The  secretary  at  war  would  have  done  better  in  confining 
his  letter  to  the  expression  of  his  own  sentiments.  What  he 
has  said  for  himself,  if  I  am  rightly  informed,  will  require 
more  wit  than  he  possesses  to  defend.  For  the  mere  benefit 
of  the  law,  I  presume,  the  prisoners  will  hardly  thank  him. 
It  is  a  benefit  they  are  entitled  to,  and  will  certainly  have 
whether  he  and  his  office  interfere  or  not.  If  he  means  any 
thing  more,  let  him  look  to  his  words.  But  I  hold  it  to  be 
highly  unconstitutional  as  well  as  illegal,  to  promise  official 
support  and  protection  to  either  party  in  a  criminal  case 
wherein  the  king  prosecutes  for  the  loss  of  his  subject. 
There  is  a  degree  of  folly  in  a  minister  of  the  crown  sign- 
ing such  a  letter  which  looks  like  infatuation;  but  I  hope 
the  court  of  King's  Bench,  or  some  other  court,  will  let 
him  know  what  the  law  calls  abetment  and  maintenance^  and 
bring  him  to  his  senses. 

Yours, 

FIAT  JUSTITIA! 


232  MISCELLANEOUS 


LETTER  XXV. 

For  the  Public  Advertiser. 

1  July,  1768. 

TO  MASTER  HARRY  IN  BLACK-BOY-ALLEY. 

^—  At  tu,  simul  obligasti 
Perfidum  votis  caput,  enigrescis 
Atrior  multo. 

The  moment  I  heard  you  had  given  a  positive  promise 
to  Lord  Rockingham  in  my  favour,  I  did  you  the  justice  to 
be  satisfied  that  all  my  hopes  and  pretensions  to  succeed 

Mrs. were  at  an  end.   But  a  second  promise,  which  I 

understand  vou  have  lately  given  to  another,  revives  my  spi- 
rits, and  makes  me  flatter  myself  that  you  mean  me  no  harm. 
I  have  one  chance  less  against  me  than  I  had,  for  vour  last 
resolution  is  certainly  the  one  you  will  not  abide  by;  so  that 
at  present  there  is  nothing  in  my  way  but  vour  engagement 
to  Lord  Rockingham,  the  bad  effects  of  which  I  shall  en- 
deavour to  remove  by  this  letter.   I  feel  as  stronglv  as  you 
how  much  it  would  violate  the  consistency  of  your  charac- 
ter to  keep  your  word  from  any  motive  of  probity  or  good 
faith;  but  if  I  can  suggest  to  you  the  means  of  performing 
your  first  promise  to  Lord  Rockingham,  and  yet  continuing 
as  great  a  rascal  as  you  would  wish  to  be,  all  objections  on 
the  score  of  integrity  will  be  removed,  and  you  will  owe  me 
no  small  obligation  into  the  bargain.  You  are  a  mere  boy, 
Harry,  notwithstanding  the  down  upon  your  chin,  and  would 
do  well  to  cultivate  the  friendship  of  women  of  experience. 
With  all  due  submission  to  Miss  Nancy's*  personal  know- 
ledge of  the  world,  I  believe  she  has  not  yet  taugnt  you  the 
secret  of  keeping  your  word  without  hurting  your  princi- 
ples. This  is  a  science  worthy  of  a  superior  genius;  and 
without  a  compliment,  Harry,  you  have  talents  to  improve 
it  into  a  system  of  treachery,  which,  though  it  may  shorten 
your  natural  life,  will  make  your  reputation  immortal. 

•  Nancy  Parsons.  Edit. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  233 

In  the  first  place,  I  presume,  you  will  have  no  difficulty 
in  breaking  your  word  with  Mrs.  C  y;  the  whole  dis- 
tress lies  in  keeping  it  with  your  friend  the  marquis.  My 
advice  is,  therefore,  that  you  should  order  Mr.  Bradshaw 
to  write  to  his  lordship,  and  assure  him  in  the  civilest  terms, 
that  "  circumstances  which  you  had  not  foreseen; — that  it 
was  with  infinite  concern; — that  his  lordship's  recommenda- 
tion had  such  weight  with  you; — that  in  any  other  instance; 
— that  you  flattered  yourself  his  lordship  would  be  candid 
enough  to  distinguish  between  the  minister  and  the  man; — 
but  that  in  short  you  were  so  unfortunately  situated,  &c.  &c. 
&c"  Mr.  Bradshaw's  manner  will  make  the  message  palat- 
able, and  it  would  not  be  amiss  if  he  were  to  carry  it  him- 
self. Having  disengaged  yourself  from  Lord  Rockingham, 
you  must  at  the  same  instant  write  me  a  letter  of  congratu- 
lation, and  desire  me  to  take  possession  immediately.  By 
these  expedients  you  will  preserve  all  the  duplicity  and 
wayward  humour  of  your  character; — you  will  have  the 
merit  and  satisfaction  of  failing  to  two  people;  you  will  con- 
fer a  favour  without  obliging  any  body;  and  your  enemies 
give  you  credit  for  a  conduct  equally  honourable  to  your 
morals  and  your  understanding. 

Farewell,  Harry,  and  believe  me  to  be,  with  the  most  per- 
fect contempt,  yours, 

POMONA. 

P.  S.  If  the  place  is  to  be  given  in  trust  for  Miss  Parsons, 
I  beg  leave  to  withdraw  my  pretensions;  for  I  am  deter- 
mined not  to  suffer  a  woman  to  be  quartered  upon  me  in 
any  shape. 


LETTER  XXVI. 

TO    THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC  ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  19  July,  1768. 

The   spirit  which  once    animated  the   London  Gazette 
seems  to  have  expired  with  the  war.  The  learned  compiler 
of  that  paper  was  blest  with  a  genius  equal  to  the  description 
Vol.  II.  2G 


234  MISCELLANEOUS 

of  battles  and  victories,  but  could  not  descend  with  dignity 
to  the  pacific  annals  of  domestic  economy.  While  our  troops 
were  sacrificed  abroad,  his  pen  was  employed,  with  equal 
bravery,  in  murdering  our  language  at  home.  He  never  lost 
a  consonant  from  the  Elbe  to  the  Weser,  or  mollified  one 
circumstance  in  all  the  guttural  pomp  of  a  German  cam- 
paign. But,  unfortunately  for  the  world,  his  style  perished 
with  his  subject,  and  we  see  him  now  hardly  able  to  support 
the  fatigue  of  advertising  court-mourning,  and  introducing 
foreign  ministers  under  the  auspices  of  Mr.  Stephen  Cot- 
terel.  The  gentle  slumbers  of  the  ministry  prevail  over  the 
Gazette  in  which  their  dreams  are  recorded;  and  if  ever  we 
see  the  author  betray  a  sign  of  life,  it  is  only  when  his  prin- 
cipals turn  in  their  sleep.  I  presume  we  owe  the  Gazette  of 
last  Tuesday*  to  an  insomnium  with  which  these  gentlemen 
are  sometimes  troubled.  The  new  commission  of  trade  bears 
all  the  marks  of  that  drowsy  wildness  which  possesses  a  man, 
when  he  would  fain  go  to  sleep,  but  is  so  sore  all  over  that 
he  does  not  know  which  side  to  lie  upon.  One-  day  we  have 
a  third  secretary  of  state  for  a  new  fancy.  Next  day  down 
goes  poor  Lord  Clare  (not  all  the  softness  of  his  manners 
nor  modest  eloquence  can  save  him)  and  up  gets  the  new 
secretary  to  represent  them  both.  Hence  we  might  have  ex- 
pected a  pause  of  a  few  minutes,  but  these  gentlemen  are  too 
modest  to  be  satisfied  with  any  thing  they  do;  and  now  for 

*  The  following  is  a  copy  of  the  article  alluded  to: 

Whitehall,  12  July. 
"  The  king  has  been  pleased  to  constitute  and  appoint  the  lord  high 
chancellor;  the  first  commissioner  of  his  Majesty's  treasury;  the  lord  pre- 
sident of  the  council;  the  first  commissioner  of  the  admiralty;  his  Majes- 
ty's principal  secretaries  of  state;  the  chancellor  of  his  Majesty's  exche- 
quer; the  lord  bishop  of  London;  and  the  surveyor  and  auditor-general  of 
all  his  Majesty's  revenues  in  America,  for  the  time  being;  together  with 
Soame  Jenyns.  Edward  Elliot,  George  Rice,  John  Roberts,  Jeremiah  Dy- 
son, William  Fitzherbert,  and  Thomas  Robinson,  Esqrs.  to  be  commis- 
sioners for  promoting  trade,  and  for  inspecting  and  improving  his  Majes- 
ty's plantations  in  America,  and  elsewhere.  And  his  Majesty  has  thought 
fit  to  direct  that  Wills,  Earl  of  Hillsborough,  one  of  his  said  principal  se- 
cretaries of  state,  shall  duly  attend  the  meetings  of  his  said  commis- 
sioners." Euit. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS 


235 


measures  of  vigour  with  a  vengeance!  The  chief  officers  of 
the  crown,  having  little  else  to  do,  are  called  from  their  re- 
spective departments;  the  prayers  of  a  reverend  prelate  are 
desired;  Messieurs  Rice,  Jenyns,  Fitzherbert,  Elliot,  and 
Robinson  still  contribute  their  mites,  and  Wills  Earl  of  Hills- 
borough is  duly  to  attend  the  meetings.  The  colonies  must  be 
ungovernable  indeed  ITsuch  a  junto  cannot  govern  them.  In 
the  last  article  the  writer  of  the  Gazette  is  particularly  fortu- 
nate, and  avails  himself  with  his  usual  dexterity,  of  all  the 
advantage  of  publishing  nonsense  by  authority.  This  due  at- 
tendance will  mean  any  thing  or  nothing  just  as  the  reader 
chooses.  By  the  mark  set  upon  Wills,  it  should  seem  that 
the  other  commissioners  are  not  duly  to  attend  the  meetings; 
or  perhaps  government,  with  a  laudable  caution,  means  to 
guard  against  any  undue  attendance  of  the  said  Wills;  they 
may  possibly  mean  that  Wills  alone  shall  be  a  quorum;  or  it 
may  be but  to  guess  at  their  meaning  is  to  reason  with- 
out data,  so  I  leave  it,  as  they  have  done,  to  be  explained 
by  contingencies. 

After  all,  Mr.  Printer,  these  are  feverish  symptoms,  and 
look  as  if  the  disorder  were  coming  to  a  crisis.  Even  this 
last  effort  is  the  forerunner  of  their  speedy  dissolution;  like 
the  false  strength  of  a  delirium,  which  exerts  itself  by  fits, 
and  dies  in  convulsions. 

C*. 


LETTER  XXVJi. 

TO  MR.  WOODFALL. 
Sir,  $1  July,  176S. 

I  could  not  help   smiling   at   your   correspondent  C.'s 
dreaming  animadversion,  in  your  paper  of  yesterday,  upon 
the  commission  of  the  board  of  trade.  He  modestly  fancies 
»   himself  awake,  while  ail  the  ministry  are  inveloped  in  dark- 
ness and  dreams,  and,  according  to  him,  only  stir  to  stir  no 


*  To  this  letter  was  given  a  short  answer,  which,  as  it  produced  a  reply 
from  Junius,  is  here  inserted.  Edit. 


236  MISCELLANEOUS 

more.  Thus  drunkards  imagine  that  every  body  reels,  and 
that  the  world  itself  is  in  disorder. 

He  owns  that  his  assertions  are/  the  result  of  guess,  and 
that  his  reasonings  are  without  She/  necessary  data.  He 
might  have  spared  himself  that  trouble;  every  body  will  tell 
him  the  same.  Vastly  displeased  with  the  compiler  of  the 
Gazette,  he  drops  him  to  abuse  his  principals;  and  because 
thev  do  not  or  choose  not  to  furnish  his  empty  brain  with 
chat  for  a  day,  or  with  battles,  sieges,  and  victories  in  time 
of  peace,  they  are  therefore  doing  nothing,  or  at  best  are  but 

dreaming  like himself.  As  he  most  sagaciously  begins 

without  his  data,  so  he  proceeds  (as  Mr.  Locke  says)  by 
seeing  a  little,  perhaps  like  a  man  half  awake,  presuming  a 
great  deal,  and  then  jumping  to  a  conclusion.  This,  it  is 
owned,  he  has  admirably  well  done.  He  reads  in  the  Ga- 
zette, that  several  of  the  chief  officers  of  the  crown,  the 
bishop  of  London,  and  some  others,^ire  appointed  together 
with  Messieurs  Jenyns,  Rice,  Elliot,  Fitzherbert,  and  Ro- 
binson (whom  he  very  decently  and  ^liberally  styles  a  junto) 
to  be  commissioners  for  trade  and  plantations,  and  that  the 
Earl  of  Hillsborough  is  duly  to  attend  their  meetings.  This 
throws  our  gentleman  into  a  trance  (convincing  the  world 
that  his  ignorance  and  insomnia  are  well  blended)  and, 
fraught  with  this  intelligence,  he  avers  that  all  these  respect- 
able personages  are  new  commissioners;  whereas,  in  fact, 
from  the  original  constitution  of  the  board  of  trade,  they 
have  a  right  to  sit  there  in  virtue  of  their  respective  offices, 
though  not  obliged  as  Messrs.  Jenyns,  &c.  to  a  due  and  con-^ 
stant  attendance.  In  every  new  commission  of  the  board  of 
trade  these  officers  for  the  time  being  are  inserted  at  length; 
and  at  the  same  time,  on  account  of  their  other  public  avo- 
cations, they  are  therein  released  from  the  obligation  of  con- 
tinually sitting  at  that  board.  As  the  business  of  the  colonies 
has  of  late  years  much  increased,  it  was  judged  necessary  by  • 
the  crown  to  appoint  one  other  principal  secretary  of  state  for 
the  transaction  of  colony  affairs,  which  are  daily  increasing 
in  their  importance  to  this  kingdom;  and,  perhaps,  the  noble, 
lord,  who  is  chosen  to  this  direction,  and  whose  masterly  abi- 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  237 

lities  are  the  object  of  your  correspondent's  invidious  scuj>^^^ 
rility,  is  the  only  man  of  rank  adequate  to  this  arduous  task 
in  the  present  crisis.  His  lordship  is  also  to  preside  at  the 
board  of  trade,  for  the  facility  and  dispatch  of  business,  and 
will  thereby  save  the  government  (as  he  has  no  salary)  the 
expense  of  a  first  commissioner.  He  is  duly  to  attend  the  meet' 
ings  of  that  board,  which  cannot,  as  Mr.  C.  would  wisely 
obtrude  upon  the  public  judgment,  mean  any  thing  or  no- 
thing at  pleasure;  for  when  thene  are  no  meetings  his  lord- 
ship cannot  attend,  but  when  there  are  it  is  his  duty.  This, 

every  man  who  is  awake  can  understand;  but  as  for  such 

.   \  . 

dreamers  as  good  Master  C.  I  wish  they  might  sleep  more 

soundlv  till  the  patriotism  they  attack  is  extinguished;  and 

then  I  believe  the  world  will  not  be  much  disturbed  with  the 

impertinent  visions  of  suchnlnquiet  repose. 

INSOMNIS. 


LETTER  XXVIII. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  23  July,  1768. 

I  am  willing  to  join  issue  with  your  correspondent  Insom- 
nis,  that  one  of  us  is  fast  asleep,  and  submit  to  be  tried  by  a 
jury  of  plain  Englishmen,  who  may  be  supposed  to  under- 
stand their  own  language.  If  their  verdict  be  given  against 
him,  all  I  desire  is  that  you  will  not  expose  his  infirmity  to 
the  public,  or  suffer  him  to  say  things  in  his  sleep,  which  his 
modesty  will  blush  for  when  he  wakes. 

In  the  first  place,  I  never  averred  that  they  were  all  new 
commissioners,  though  I  spoke  of  a  new  commission.  Is  it 
possible  for  a  man  to  be  awake  and  not  distinguish  between 
these  expressions?  But  now  for  a  curious  discovery:  the 
great  officers  of  state,  it  seems,  are  bound  and  released  by 
one  and  the  same  act;  that  is,  they  are  bouud  to  the  public, 
and  released  in  private.  They  figure  away  as  men  of  business 
in  the  Gazette,  yet  by  a  secret  stipulation  are  relieved  from 
the  trouble  of  attendance.  If  Malagrida  had  any  interest 
with  the  present  ministry,  I  should  have  no  doubt  that  this 


238  MISCELLANEOUS 

Vy  wvas  one  of  his  subtle  contrivances.  An  ostensible  engage- 
ment, with  a  mental  reservation,^  the  first  principle  of  the 
morale  relachee  professed  and  inculcated  by  the  society  of 
Jesus. 

Now,  Sir,  observe  how  carefully  the  example  is  adapted 
to  the  doctrine.  The  state  of  the  colonies  evidently  demand- 
ed some  extraordinary  measures  of  wisdom  and  of  vigour. 
A  pompous  list  of  names  is  held  forth  to  the  public,  as  if 
the  ministry  were  roused  by  the  importance  and  difficulty 
of  the  present  conjuncture,  and  were  determined  to  face  it 
with  their  whole  strength  and  abilities.  Such  was  the  ap- 
pearance which  the  new  commission  was  intended  to  con- 
vey, and  in  this  light  I  am  very  sure  it  was  received  by  the 
public:  yet  Insomnis  is  so  candid  as  to  tell  us,  that  the  mi- 
nistry meant  no  such  thing;  and  I  believe  him  very  sincere- 
ly. A  council  is  instituted  which  is  never  to  sit,  and  com- 
missioners are  appointed  on  condition  they  shall  never  at- 
tend: a  common  way  of  throwing  dust  into  the  eyes  of  the 
public,  and  frequently  practised  with  success:  but  I  believe 
it  is  rather  uncommon  for  a  ministerial  advocate  to  make 
so  early  and  frank  a  confession  of  truths,  which,  though 
they  may  answer  other  purposes,  will  do  his  patrons  but 
little  honour  in  point  of  credit  and  veracity. 

"  Go  to,  go  to,  xjou  have  known  what  you  should  not.'* 

A  man  wh<*  talks  in  his  sleep  is  not  fit  for  a  confidential 
secretary,  at  least  to  a  ministry  who  have  so  many  secrets  to 
conceal. 

If  the  duplicity  of  this  contrivance  had  concerned  them- 
selves alone,  I  should  have  been  contented  with  comparing 
it  with  the  rest  of  their  conduct,  and  thought  no  more  of  it. 
But  I  own  it  fills  me  with  indignation  to  see  the  name  of  a 
reverend  prelate  so  indecently  treated.  The  respect  due  to 
his  personal  character,  if  not  the  sanctity  of  his  station,  should 
have  preserved  him  from  so  gross  an  outrage.  To  see  a  pre- 
late of  the  first  rank  mixed  in  a  low  Jesuitical  farce  of  im- 
posing upon  the  public  with  a  great  council,  when  no  such 
matter  is  intended! — Seriously,  Sir,  I  should  not  be  surprised 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  239 

if  his  lordship  were  to  prosecute  the  writer  of  the  Gazette 
for  a  libel.  For  my  own  part,  Sir,  I  would  rather  see  my 
name  advertised  among  a  company  of  buffoons  at  Bartl<-my 
fair,  than  prostituted  in  a  ministerial  junto,  to  deceive  and  to 
cheat  my  country.  A  farce  upon  the  stage  may  amuse  at 
least,  if  not  instruct,  but  ministerial  farces  are  too  dull  to 
please,  and  seldom  conclude  without  mischief  to  the  audience. 
I  admit  one  proposition  gravely  advanced  by  Insomnis, 
"  that  when  there  are  no  meetings  Lord  Hillsborough  cannot 
attend  them;"  but  I  am  not  quite  so  clear  about  the  article 
of  expense.  The  salary  of  a  first  commissioner  of  trade,  at 
three  thousand  pounds  a  year,  is  saved  by  appointing  a  third 
secretary  of  state  at  six  or  seven,  besides  all  the  expense  of 
a  new  office.  But  Insomnis  unfortunately  forgets  that  if  Mr. 
Thomas  Townsend,  contrary  to  all  expectation,  had  not  re- 
fused the  vice-treasurership  (because  the  offer  of  it  was  at- 

!  tended  with  an  insult)  there  would  have  been  no  room  to 
provide  for  Lord  Clare,  consequently  he  must  have  remain- 
ed first  commissioner  of  trade,  and  all  this  charming  plan  of 

I  economy,  facility,  and  dispatch,  must  have  waited  till  another 

j  opportunity. 

And  now,  Mr.  Insomnis,  I  shall  leave  you  to  your  repose. 

j  Your  patrons  indeed  may  turn,  and  turn,  and  get  no  rest; 

!  but  what  occasion  is  there  for  your  sitting  up  to  watch  them? 

"  Thou  quiet  soul,  slee/i  thou  a  quiet  sleep." 

Above  all  things  let  me  recommend  it  to  you,  never  to 
I  pretend  to  be  awake  for  the  future.  Your  eyes  and  ears,  per- 
haps, are  open,  but  their  sense  is  shut,  and  really  it  is  not  very 
j  polite  of  you  to  come  into  company  in  your  night-cap. 

c. 


240  MISCELLANEOUS 


LETTER  XXIX. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC  ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  30  July,  1768. 

It  is  not  many  months  since*  you  gave  me  an  opportunity 
of  demonstrating  to  the  nation,  as  far  as  rational  inference 
and  probability  could  extend,  that  the  hopes  which  some  men 
seemed  to  entertain,  or  to  profess  at  least,  with  regard  to 
America,  were  without  a  shadow  of  foundation.  They  seem- 
ed to  flatter  themselves  that  the  contest  with  the  colonies, 
like  a  disagreeable  question  in  the  House  of  Commons,  might 
be  put  off  to  a  long  day,  and  provided  they  could  get  rid  of 
it  for  the  present,  they  thought  it  beneath  them  to  consult 
either  their  own  reputation  or  the  true  interests  of  their 
country.  But  whatever  were  their  views  or  expectations, 
whether  it  was  the  mere  enmity  of  party,  or  the  real  persua- 
sion that  they  had  but  a  little  time  to  live  in  officef,  every 
circumstance  which  I  then  foretold  is  confirmed  by  expe- 
rience. The  conduct  of  the  king's  servants  in  relation  to 
America  since  the  alteration  in  1765,  never  had  a  reasonable 
argument  to  defend  it,  and  the  chapter  of  accidents  which 
they  implicitly  relied  on,  has  not  produced  a  single  casualty 
in  their  favour.  At  a  crisis  like  this,  Sir,  I  shall  not  be  very 
solicitous  about  those  idle  forms  of  respect,  which  men  in 
office  think  due  to  their  characters  and  station;  neither  will  I 
descend  to  a  language  beneath  the  importance  of  the  subject 
I  write  on.  When  the  fate  of  Great  Britain  is  thrown  upon 
the  hazard  of  a  die,  by  a  weak,  distracted,  worthless  minis- 
try, an  honest  man  will  always  express  all  the  indignation  he 
feels.  This  is  not  a  moment  for  preserving  forms,  and  the 
ministry  must  know  that  the  language  of  reproach  and  con- 
tempt is  now  the  universal  language  of  the  nation. 

We  find  ourselves  at  last  reduced  to  the  dreadful  alterna- 
tive of  either  making  war  upon  our  colonies,  or  of  suffering 

*  See  Miscellaneous  Letter,  No.  x.  Dec.  19,  1767.  Edit. 
-J-  The  Rockingham  administration,  which  lasted  from  July  10,  1765,  to 
July  30,  1766.  Edit. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  241 

ihem  to  erect  themselves  into  independent  states.  It  is  not 
that  I  hesitate  now  upon  the  choice  we  are  to  make.  Every- 
thing must  be  hazarded.  But  what  infamy,  what  punishment 
do  those  men  deserve,  whose  folly  or  whose  treachery  hath 
reduced  us  to  this  state,  in  which  we  can  neither  give  up  the 
cause  without  a  certainty  of  ruin,  nor  maintain  it  without 
such  a  struggle  as  must  shake  thf  empire?  If  they  had  the 
most  distant  pretence  for  saying  that  the  present  conjuncture 
has  arisen  suddenly,  that  it  was  not  foreseen  and  could  not 
be  provided  for,  we  should  only  have  reason  to  lament  that 
our  affairs  were  committed  to  such  ignorance  and  blindness. 
But  when  the)7  have  had  every  notice  that  it  was  possible  to 
receive,  when  the  proceedings  of  the  colonies  have  for  a 
considerable  time  been  not  less  notorious  than  alarming, 
what  apology  have  they  left?  Upon  what  principle  will  they 
now  defend  themselves?  From  the  first  appearance  of  that 
rebellious  spirit  which  has  spread  itself  all  over  the  colonies, 
the  chief  members  of  the  present  ministry  were  the  declared 
advocates  of  America.  Every  art  of  palliation,  of  conceal- 
ment, and  even  of  justification,  was  made  use  of  in  favour 
of  that  country  against  Great  Britain.  Some  there  were  who 
did  not  even  scruple  to  pledge  themselves  for  the  future 
submission  and  loyalty  of  the  colonies.  Every  principle  of 
government  was  subverted,  and  such  absurdities  maintained 
as  common  sense  should  blush  for.  When  all  the  argument 
failed,  and  when  the  proceedings  of  the  colonies  gave  the  lie 
to  every  declaration  made  for  them  by  their  patrons  here, 
still  the  ministry  thought  it  not  too  late  for  further  tempo- 
rizing and  delav.  Even  after  the  combination  at  Boston  they 
would  not  suffer  parliament  to  be  informed  of  the  real  state 
of  things  in  that  province.  They  endeavoured  to  conceal  the 
most  atrocious  circumstances,  and  what  they  could  not  con- 
ceal they  justified.  Mr.  Conway*  since  last  December  has, 
in  the  face  of  ihe  House  of  Commons,  defended  the  resis- 
tance of  the  colonies  upon  what  he  called  revolution  princi- 
ples; and  when  a  paper,  printed  at  Boston,  was  offered  to  the 

*  Mr.  Conway  moved  the  repeal  of  Mr.  Granville's  Stamp  Act  and  in- 
troduced the  Declaratory  Act.  Edit. 

Vol.  II.  2  H 


242  MISCELLANEOUS 

House,  as  containing  matter  of  the  highest  importance  for 
the  information  of  parliament,  the  ministry  would  not  suffer 
it  to  be  read  because  they  knew  it  would  be  found  too  bad  to 
be  passed  over. 

If  we  look  for  their  motives  we  shall  find  them  such  as 
weak  and  interested  men  usually  act  upon.  They  were  weak 
enough  to  hope  that  the  crisis  of  Great  Britain  and  America 
would  be  reserved  for   their  successors  in  office,  and  they 
were  determined  to  hazard  even  the  ruin  of  their  country, 
rather  than  furnish  the  man*  whom  they  feared  and  hated 
with  the  melancholy  triumph  of  having  truly  foretold  the 
consequences  of  their  own  misconduct.   But  this,  such  as  it 
is,  the  triumph  of  a  heart  that  bleeds  at  every  vein,  they  can- 
not deprive  him  of.  They  dreaded  the  acknowledgment  of 
his  superiority  over  them,  and  the  loss  of  their  own  authori- 
ty and  credit,  more  than  the  rebellion  of  near  half  the  em- 
pire against  the  supreme  legislature.  On  this  patriotic  prin- 
ciple they  exerted  their  utmost  efforts  to  defer  the  decision 
of  this  great  national  cause  till  the  last  possible  moment.  The 
timidity,  weakness,  and  distraction  of  government  at  home 
gave  spirits,  strength,  and  union  to  the  colonies,  and  the 
ministry  seemed  determined  to  wait  for  a  declaration  of  war 
with  our  natural  enemy,  before  they  attempted  to  suppress 
the  rebellion  of  our  natural  subjects.  At  last,  however,  they 
are  compelled  to  take  a  resolution  which  ought  to  have  been 
taken  many  months  ago,  and  might  then  have  been  pursued 
with  honour  to  themselves,  and  safety  to  this  country.   How 
they  will  support  it  is  uncertain.  A  resolution,  adopted  by  a 
small  majority  in  a  divided  council,  can  be  but  little  depend- 
ed on.  It  must  want  the  first  strength  of  union,  and  what 
effect  can  we  hope  for  even  from  a  vigorous  measure,  when 
the  execution  of  it  is  committed,  most  probably,  to  one  of 
the  persons  who  have  professed  themselves  the  patrons  of 
lenient  moderate  measures,  until  the  very  name  of  lenity  and 
moderation  became  ridiculous?  They  will  execute  by  halves; 
they  will  temporize  and  look  out  for  expedients;  they  will 

*  George  Grenville.  Edit. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  243 

increase  the  mischief;  they  will  defer  the  stroke  until  we  are 
actually  involved  in  a  war  with  France;  and  when  they  have 
made  the  game  desperate,  they  will  resign  their  places,  to 
save  themselves,  if  possible,  from  the  resentment  of  their 
country. 

In  this  situation  I  am  rather  afflicted  than  surprised  at  the 
shock  which  public  credit  has  just  received.  The  weight  of 
the  funds  is  of  itself  sufficient  to  press  them  down.  How  then 
should  it  be  possible  for  them  to  stand  against  evils  which 
separately  might  overturn  the  most  flourishing  state,  and 
which  are  fatally  at  this  moment  united  against  Great  Bri- 
tain. The  rebellion  of  her  subjects;  the  too  probable  appre- 
hension of  a  foreign  war;  and  a  weak  distracted  administra- 
tion at  home.  Yet,  Sir,  I  hope  there  is  still  blood  enough  in 
our  veins  to  make  a  noble  stand  even  against  these  compli- 
cated mischiefs.  Far  from  despairing  of  the  republic,  I  know 
we  have  great  resources  left,  if;  the  v  are  not  lost  or  betrayed. 
A  firm  united  administration  with  the  uniform  direction  of 
one  man  of  wisdom  and  spirit,  may  yet  preserve  the  state.  It 
is  impossible  to  conceal  from  ourselves,  that  we  are  at  this 
moment  on  the  brink  of  a  dreadful  precipice;  the  question  is, 
whether  we  shall  still  submit  to  be  guided  by  the  hand  which 
hath  driven  us  to  it,  or  whether  we  shall  follow  the  patriot 
voice  which  has  not  ceased  to  warn  us  of  our  dangers,  and 
which  would  still  declare  the  way  to  safety  and  to  honour*. 


LETTER  XXX, 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  5  August,  1768. 

An  unmerited  outrage  offered  to  a  great  or  good  man  na- 
turally excites  some  emotions  of  resentment  even  in  hearts 
that  have  the  least  esteem  for  virtue.  At  particular  moments 
the  worst  of  men  forget  their  principles,  and  pay  to  superior 

•  Mr.  G.  Grenville's.  See  this  subject  further  continued  in  Miscellane- 
ous Letter,  No.  xxxi.  Edit- 


244  MISCELLANEOUS 

worth  an  involuntary  tribute  of  sympathy  or  applause.  We 
ought  to  think  well  of  human  nature  when  we  see  how  fre- 
quently the  most  profligate  minds  are  generous  without  re- 
flection.  But  if  a  case  should  happen,  wherein  a  character 
not  merely  of  private  virtue  but  of  public  merit  receives  an 
insult  equally  indecent  and  ungrateful,  this  common  concern 
is  increased  by  that  share  of  interest  which  every  man  claims 
to  himself  in  the  public  welfare.  A  government  shameless 
or  ill-advised  enough  to  treat  with  disregard  the  obligation 
due  to  public  services,  not  only  sets  a  most  pernicious  exam- 
ple to  its  subjects,  but  does  a  flagrant  injury  to  society,  which 
every  member  of  it  ought  to  resent.  Reflections  such  as 
these  crowded  upon  my  mind  the  moment  that  I  heard  that 
the  late  commander  in  chief  in  America  had  been  dismissed 
without  ceremony  from  his  government  of  Virginia.  I  was 
grieved  to  see  such  a  man  so  treated,  but  when  I  considered 
this  step  as  an  omen  of  the  real  resolution  of  the  ministry 
with  respect  to  America,  I  forgot,  as  he  himself  will  do,  the 
private  injury,  and  lamented  nothing  but  the  public  misfor- 
tune.  At  a  time  when  the  most  backward  of  the  king's  ser- 
vants have  been  compelled  to  acknowledge  the  necessity  of 
vigorous  measures,  when  these  measures  are  held  out  to  the 
nation  with  a  declaratory  assurance  that  now  at  last  we  are 
determined,  the  resolution  to  deprive  Sir  Jtffery  Amherst  of 
his  post  in  America  cannot  but  be  received  as  a  direct  contra- 
diction to  all  those  professions.  If  they  had  sincerely  meant 
to  do  their  duty  to  their  country;  if  they  had  really  adopted 
measures  of  vigour,  and  wished  to  carry  them  into  execu- 
tion, instead  of  depriving  him  of  his  post,  they  would  have 
solicited  him  to  return  to  America,  and  take  upon  him  the 
conduct  of  those  measures.  His  prudence  and  moderation 
are  as  well  known  as  his  spirit  and  firmness,  and  who  will 
dare  to  say  that  he  would  have  refused  an  employment  which 
the  service  of  his  king  and  country  called  upon  him  to  ac- 
cept?  He  went  to  America  in  circumstances  as  little  favour- 
able as  the  present;  he  met  an  enemy  at  all  times  formida- 
ble, and  at  that  juncture  strengthened  by  success.  He  con- 
quered that  enemy,  and  united  the  dominion  of  the  whole 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  245 

continent  to  Great  Britain.  In  every  light  he  was  the  man  to 
have  been  chosen,  if  the  ministry  had  really  meant  to  exe- 
cute their  own  resolution  with  vigour.  But  if  it  be  their  de- 
sign to  surrender  every  point  to  America,  they  could  not 
have,  acted  more  consistently  with  such  a  plan,  than  by  dis- 
missing Sir  Jeffery  Amherst  from  his  post,  and  appointing 
Lord  Boutctort  to  succeed  him.  No  collusive  bargain  could 
have  been  made  with  the  former,  nor  any  base  unworthy 
comp^ances  expected  from  him.  He  had  honour,  as  much 
as  anv  man,  to  lose,  nor  even  felt  the  necessity  of  repairing 
a  broken  fortune.  Had  he  been  entrusted  with  a  command 
upon  this  important  occasion,  he  would  have  executed  the 
declared,  not  the  secret,  purpose  of  the  administration.  With 
such  a  character  it  is  easy  to  see  how  unfit  he  was  to  be  trust- 
ed with  the  conduct  of  measures  destined  to  perish  at  their 
birth.  But  although  he  might  not  be  entitled  to  the  confidence 
of  the  king's  servants,  in  what  instance  has  he  deserved  such 
ungrateful  treatment?  Could  they  find  no  other  man  to  mark 
out  to  the  public  as  an  object  of  slight  and  disrespect?  Could 
the  wantonness  of  their  power  find  no  other  way  of  pr<  >viding 
for  a  needy  dependant?  Surely,  Sir,  the  choice  was  at  least 
injudicious.  Lord  Hillsborough  might  have  found  some 
more  honourable  method  of  distinguishing  his  entrance  into 
administration;  nor  do  I  think  it  a  very  favourable  omen  to 
Lord  Boutetort,  that  his  patrons  have  fixed  upon  Virginia  as 
a  retreat  for  his  distresses.  Seven  years  are  too  many  to  spare 
out  of  a  life  of  sixty,  to  say  nothing  of  the  rarity  of  a  man's 
returning  from  that  country  and  surviving  the  next  sessions. 

L.  L. 


LETTER  XXXI. 

TO    THE    PRINTER    OF    THE    PUBLIC    ADVERTISER. 

Sir,  6  August,  1768. 

Whether  it  be  matter  of  honour  or  reproach,  it  is  at 

least  a  singular  circumstance,  that  whoever  is  hardy  enough 

to  maintain  the  cause  of  Great  Britain  against  subjects  who 

disown  her  authority,  or  to  raise  his  voice  in  defence  of  the 


246  MISCELLANEOUS 

laws  and  constitution,  is  immediately  pointed  out  to  the  pub- 
lic for  Mr.  Grenville's  friend.  From  such  language  one 
would  think  that  the  order  of  things  was  inverted,  and  that 
conspiracy  had  changed  its  nature.  Mr.  Grenville  and  his 
friends  it  seems  are  suspected  of  some  dangerous  designs, 
not  to  destroy  but  to  preserve  the  laws  and  constitution  of 
their  country.  This  is  certainly  a  reproach  of  the  latest  in- 
vention. I  know  there  are  men  whose  characters  are  safe 
against  suspicions  of  this  sort,  and  who  form  their  friend- 
ships upon  other  more  useful  maxims^  But  whether  it  be 
owing  to  the  weakness  of  his  understanding  or  to  the  sim- 
plicity of  his  heart,  that  he  pursues  a  conduct  so  useless  to 
himself  and  so  suspicious  to  the  administration,  it  is  surely  a 
pardonable  error,  and  what  an  Englishman  may  yet  forgive. 
It  is  true  he  professes  doctrines  which  would  be  treason  in 
America,  but,  in  England  at  least,  he  has  the  laws  of  his 
side,  and  if  it  be  a  crime  to  support  the  supremacy  of  the 
British  legislature,  the  sovereign,  the  lords  and  commons  are 
as  guilty  as  he  is.  The  ministry  indeed  have  no  share  in  the 
charge,  and  it  would  be  uncandid  not  to  confess  that  their 
regard  for  the  honour  and  interest  of  this  country  is  upon  the 
same  level  with  their  friendship  for  Mr.  Grenville. 

For  my  own  part,  whatever  your  correspondents  Moderator 
and  Tandem  may  think  of  me,  I  shall  content  myself  with 
some  interior  feelings  which  I  fancy  they  are  not  much  ac- 
quainted with;  nor  will  I  perplex  them  with  a  language  they 
are  incapable  of  understanding.  Whether  I  am  determined 
by  motives  which  an  honest  man  might  profess,  or  by  such 
as  those  gentlemen  usually  act  upon,  is  a  point  that  will  not 
admit  of  demonstration.  I  shall  therefore  leave  their  prin- 
ciples out  of  the  question,  and  try  what  their  arguments 
amount  to. 

Moderator  and  I  are,  for  the  most  part,  agreed.  He  allows 
"  that  government  is  sunk  into  a  contemptible  state;  that  their 
measures  have  failed  of  success,  and  is  convinced  that  if  the 
reverse  had  been  practised,  the  mischief  had  been  avoided." 
What  conclusion  his  understanding  will  draw  from  these 
premises,  I  do  not  know;  but  I  think  the  most  violent  enemy 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  247 

of  the  present  administration  could  not  have  argued  more 
strongly  for  a  change  of  hands  and  a  change  of  measures. 

The  author  of  the  second  letter  finding  nothing  that  will 
answer  his  purpose  in  the  present  state  of  things,  is  obliged 
to  carry  us  back  to  the  original  question  of  the  right  and  ex- 
pediency of  taxing  America.  I  shall  not  enter  into  the  ques- 
tion of  right,  because  it  has  been  already  determined  by  the 
legislature,  to  which  an  Englishman  still  owes  some  degree 
of  submission.  For  the  matter  of  expediency,  an  advocate 
for  the  present  ministry  seems  to  me  to  arraign  his  patrons 
when  he  argues  against  it.  One  part  of  them  uniformly  con- 
curred with  Mr.  Grenville  in  forming  the  stamp  act,  and  in 
opposing  the  repeal  of  it.  The  other,  to  serve  the  purposes 
of  party,  repealed  that  act,  yet  shewed  by  their  conduct  that 
they  approved  of  the  equitable  principle  on  which  it  was 
founded,  that  America  should  contribute  a  little  to  the  sup- 
port of  the  public  expense.  The  repeal  of  the  stamp  act  has 
been  followed  by  other  acts  more  offensive  to  the  colonies, 
more  directly  exerting  the  right  of  taxation,  and  which  will 
hardly  be  executed  without  some  extraordinary  efforts  on  the 
part  of  government.  Was  the  act  for  suspending  the  assembly 
of  New  York  recommended  by  Mr.  Grenville?  Or  was  it  he 
who  advised  the  duties  on  paper,  glass,  &c.  imported  into  the 
colonies?  No,  Sir,  his  successors  have  paid  him  the  highest 
compliment  by  imitating  the  system  which  they  had  affected 
to  condemn;  and  in  fact  they  have  carried  his  principles 
farther  than  he  did,  or  probably  than  he  would  have  carried 
them.  But  it  is  the  natural  defect  of  a  weak  divided  adminis- 
tration, that  they  can  neither  resolve  with  moderation  nor 
execute  with  firmness. 

As  to  the  questions  which  your  last  correspondent  puts  to 
me,  with  a  sort  of  heat  and  petulence  not  very  decent,  one 
plain  answer  will,  I  believe,  be  sufficient.  If  the  pretensions 
of  the  colonies  had  not  been  abetted  by  something  worse 
than  a  faction  here,  the  stamp  act  would  have  executed  itself. 
Every  clause  of  it  was  so  full  and  explicit  that  it  wanted  no 
farther  instruction;  nor  was  it  ol  that  nature  that  required  a 
military  hand  to  carry  it  into  execution.  For  the  truth  of  this 


248  MISCELLANEOUS 

answer  I  am  ready  to  appeal  even  to  the  Americans  them- 
selves. As  to  the  merit  of  having  foreseen  the  unavoidable 
consequences  of  an  inconsistent  irresolute  system  of  mea- 
sures, I  shall  place  it  as  low  as  your  correspondent  can  de- 
sire. Even  he  might  have  foreseen  what  has  happened  with- 
out waiting  for  the  event.  But  to  foretel  those  consequences; 
— to  speak  truth  to  the  nation; — to  warn  even  an  adversary 
of  his  danger;  to  persevere  in  this  upright  manly  conduct, 
is  indeed  a  merit  of  another  sort,  and  reserved  for  other 
virtues*. 

*'The  following  letter  from  Mr.  G.  Grenville  to  Mr.  Knox,  formerly 
under  secretary  of  state  to  Lord  Hillsborough,  is  extracted  from  the  se- 
cond volume  of  a  small  work  published  by  Mr.  Knox,  entitled  "  Extra 
Official  State  Papers,"  and  is  here  copied  to  give  the  reader  an  idea  of 
the  political  sentiments  entertained  by  Mr.  Grenville  with  respect  to 
America,  as  developed  by  himself  in  his  private  correspondence  with  this 
gentleman. 

Dear  Sir,  Woolton,  28  August,  1768. 

The  account  which  you  gave  to  me  in  your  letter  of  the  23d  of  this  month, 
of  the  late  transactions  at  Boston,  seems  so  natural  a  consequence  of  the 
measures  taken  in  Great  Britain,  and  the  state  and  temper  of  the  govern- 
ment here,  that  whatever  degree  of  concern  it  may  give  me,  I  cannot  feel 
the  least  surprize  at  it.  If  the  eyes  of  those  who  are  most  interested  in  this 
most  unhappy  situation  had  been  sooner  opened  to  the  most  obvious  truths, 
many  mischiefs  might  have  been  prevented;  if  the  authentic  proofs  which 
they  have  now  received  of  what  has  happened,  is  not  sufficient  to  con- 
vince them,  I  will  venture  to  foretel  without  a  spirit  of  prophecy,  greater 
calamities  will,  when  it  is  too  late,  rouse  them  and  the  whole  kingdom  from 
the  lethargy,  as  to  all  public  measures,  into  which  they  have  been  plunged.  I 
have  long  feared  that  the  conduct  holden  in  Great  Britain  would  encourage  and 
delude  the  subjects  of  America,  till  they  ivould  come  to  extremities  of  one  kind, 
ivtech  -would  too  probably  end  in  extremities  on  the  other  side.  I  may  appeal  to 
you  as  a  private  man,  and  as  a  member  of  parliament,  to  my  public 
declarations,  that  my  opinions  upon  this  subject  have  ever  been  uniformly 
the  same.  They  will  still  continue  to  be  so,  until  I  see  much  better  rea- 
sons for  changing  them,  than  any  which  I  have  yet  heard.  What  pros- 
pect there  can  now  be  that  they  will  be  attended  with  success,  I  cannot 
pretend  to  answer;  but  if  there  is  no  plan  formed  upon  the  sound  prin- 
ciples of  this  constitution,  supported  both  by  firmness  and  temper,  I  can 
answer,  that  no  good  success  in  the  present  difficult  situation,  can  arise 
from  one  desultory  measure  after  another.  The  respect  and  affection  of 
its  subjects  is  the  basis  on  which  every  wise  government  must  be  founded; 
'nut  if  that  foundation  has  been  once  overturned,  it  is  not  the  work  of  a  day 

to 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  249 

YouV  correspondent  confesses  that  Mr.  Grenville  is  still 
respectable;  yet  he  warns  the  friends  of  that  gentleman  not 
to  provoke  him,  lest  he  should  tell  them  what  they  may  not 
like  to  hear.  These  are  but  words.  He  means  as  little  when 
he  threatens  as  when  he  condescends  to  applaud.  Let  us 
meet  upon  the  fair  ground  of  truth,  and  if  he  finds  one  vul- 
nerable part  in  Mr.  Grenville's  character,  let  him  fix  his 
poisoned  arrow  there. 


LETTER  XXXII. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  10  August,  1768. 

Your  new  correspondent  Virginius  might  have  saved 
himself  the  trouble  of  dating  his  letter  from  the  Carolina 
coffee-house.  We  are  a  little  better  acquainted  than  he  ima- 
gines with  the  style  of  the  secretary  of  state's  office,  as  well 
as  with  the  facts  respecting  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst's  dismis- 
sion. When  he  calls  Lord  Boutetort  the  best  of  men,  I  sup- 
pose he  means  the  best  of  courtiers.  If  bowing  low  and  car- 
rying the  sword  of  state  constitute  merit  and  services,  I 
confess  there  are  few  men  to  whom  government  is  more  in- 
debted than  to  his  lordship.  As  to  those  insinuations  which 
Virginius  calls  malevolent,  it  would  have  answered  his  pur- 
pose a  little  better  if  he  could  have  proved  them  false.  Why 
does  he  not?  Because  they  are  not  only  true,  but  notoriously 
true.  What  say  you  to  the  copper  mines,  Virginius?  I  fancy 
his  lordship  would  not  have  been  so  fond  of  residing  in  Vir- 
ginia, if  he  could  have  continued  to  reside  here  either  with 
safety  or  convenience.  Reflections  on  characters  merely  pri- 
vate ought  I  own  to  be  discouraged.  But  let  it  be  remem- 
bered that  this  courtier  might  have  lived  and  died  in  obscu- 

to  temper  the  materials,  so  as  to  unite  and  rebuild  them,  especially  if  the 
workmen  shall  be  daily  changed,  and  each  work  by  a  different  rule  and 
line  from  that  of  his  predecessor. 

I  am,  &c. 

GEO.  GRENVILLE. 

Vol.  II.  2  I 


250  MISCELLANEOUS 

rity  if  he  had  not  forced  himself  into  the  public  notice,  by 
robbing  another  man  of  an  appointment,  expressly  given  him 
in  reward  for  the  most  honourable  national  services.  The 
discontent  of  the  province  of  Virginia  at  being  governed  by 
a  lieutenant-governor  instead  of  a  governor  is  a  mere  fiction 
trumped  up  by  Lord  Hillsborough  and  his  secretary  to  serve 
this  dirty  purpose;  it  was  never  heard  of  before,  and  if  Sir 
Jeffery  Amherst  was  really  desired  to  repair  to  his  govern- 
ment, it  was  not  only  a  most  scandalous  breach  of  conditions 
with  him,  but  a  most  impudent  mockery.  Lord  Hillsborough 
knew  it  was  impossible  he  could  return  to  America  to  be  un- 
der the  command  of  General  Gage,  and  that  therefore  he 
might  put  the  alternative  to  him  in  safety.  By  this  farce  Lord 
Hillsborough  thought  he  could  throw  a  colour  upon  the  mat- 
ter, and  that  the  nation  would  be  misled  by  it.  What  a  poor 
contemptible  artifice!  Thus  it  usually  happens  with  bunglers. 
They  cannot  even  be  mischievous  with  dexterity,  nor  do  a 
public  injury  without  insulting  the  public  understanding. 

LUCIUS. 


LETTER  XXXIII. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  19  August,  1768. 

The  greatest  part  of  my  property  having  been  invested 
in  the  funds,  I  could  not  help  paying  some  attention  to  ru- 
mours or  events,  by  which  my  fortune  may  be  affected:  yet 
I  never  lay  in  wait  to  take  advantage  of  a  sudden  fluctuation, 
much  less  would  I  make  myself  a  bubble  to  bulls  and  bears, 
or  a  dupe  to  the  pernicious  arts  practised  in  the  alley.  I 
thought  a  prudent  man,  who  had  any  thing  to  lose,  and  really 
meant  to  do  the  best  for  himself  and  his  family,  ought  to 
consider  of  the  state  of  things  at  large,  of  the  prospect  be- 
fore him,  and  the  probability  of  particular  events.  A  letter 
which  appeared  some  days  ago  in  the  Public  Advertiser,  re- 
vived many  serious  reflections  of  this  sort  in  my  mind,  be- 
cause it  seemed  to  be  written  with  candour  and  judgment. 
The  effect  of  those  reflections  was,  that  I  did  not  hesitate  to 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  251 

alter  the  situation  of  my  property.  I  owe  my  thanks  to  that 
writer  that  I  am  safely  landed  from  a  troubled  ocean  of  fear 
and  anxiety,  on  which  I  think  I  never  will  venture  my  for- 
tune and  my  happiness  again.  Perhaps  it  may  not  be  useless 
to  individuals  to  see  the  motives  on  which  I  have  acted. 

In  the  first  place,  I  consider  this  country  as  in  a  situation 
the  like  of  which  it  never  experienced  before,  but  which  the 
greatest  empires  have  experienced  in  their  turn.  The  suc- 
cesses of  the  late  war  had  placed  us  at  the  highest  pinnacle 
of  military  glory.  Every  external  circumstance  seemed  to 
contribute  to  our  prosperity;  the  most  formidable  of  our  ene- 
mies were  reduced,  and  commerce  had  promised  to  increase 
with  the  extent  of  our  dominion.  But  at  this  point  I  fear  we 
met  with  our  ne  plus  ultra.  The  greatness  of  a  kingdom  can- 
not long  be  stationary.  That  of  Great  Britain  carried  in  it- 
self an  interior  principle  of  weakness  and  decay.  While  the 
war  continued,  our  superiority  at  sea  gave  us  an  exclusive 
commerce  with  the  richest  quarters  of  the  world,  and  sup- 
plied us  with  wealth  to  support  such  efforts  as  no  nation  ever 
made  before.  But  when  the  conclusion  of  peace  had  restored 
our  rivals  to  the  enjoyment  of  their  former  trade,  the  very 
efforts  which  had  maintained  the  war,  rendered  it  impossi- 
ble for  us  to  meet  those  rivals  upon  equal  terms  in  foreign 
markets.  The  national  debt  had  risen  to  a  point  so  far  be- 
yond the  reach  of  economical  speculations,  that  the  diminu- 
tion of  the  principal  almost  ceased  to  be  a  question,  and  the 
ministry  found  difficulty  enough  in  providing  funds  for  pay- 
ment of  the  interest.  Here  then  we  find  an  interior  principle 
of  decay,  the  operation  of  which  is  not  less  certain  than  fatal. 
The  increase  of  your  debt  requires  a  proportionate  increase 
of  trade,  at  the  same  time  that  it  not  only  prevents  that  in- 
crease, but  operates  in  the  contrary  direction.  A  newspaper 
will  not  admit  of  such  a  deduction,  or  I  would  undertake  to 
demonstrate,  that  all  the  profitable  part  of  our  foreign  trade 
is  lost,  and  that  in  what  remains  the  balance  is  considerably 
against  us.  But  the  fact  is  notorious.  The  situation  of  our 
East- India  trade  is  so  far  altered  for  the  better,  that  we  do 
not  send  such  quantities  of  bullion  as  heretofore  to  China, 


.252  MISCELLANEOUS 

and  indeed  we  have  it  not  to  send.  Yet  the  resources  of  this 
trade  are  at  the  best  but  precarious:  nor  is  the  balance  of  it 
even  now  clearly  in  our  favour.  A  single  defeat  in  India  (an 
event  not  quite  out  of  the  limits  of  possibility)  would  go 
near  to  annihilate  the  company.  But  it  was  in  the  colonies 
that  our  best  and  surest  hopes  were  founded.  Their  exclu- 
sive commerce  would  have  supported  our  home  manufac- 
tures, when  other  markets  failed,  and  rewarded  us  in  some 
measure  for  that  security  and  extent  of  dominion  which  the 
blood  and  treasure  of  this  country  had  purchased  for  them. 
Here  too  our  most  reasonable  expectations  are  disappointed. 
Not  only  the  merchant  who  gives  credit  on  the  security  of 
personal  good  faith  is  ruined  by  it,  but,  in  a  public  view,  the 
sum  of  the  debts  of  individuals  is  held  out  in  terrorem  to 
awe  us  into  a  compliance  with  pretensions  which  shake  the 
foundation  of  our  political  existence.  We  shall  be  woefully 
deceived  if  we  form  our  calculations  of  the  real  state  of 
trade,  on  the  large  commissions,  long  credit,  or  extensive 
enterprizes  of  particular  merchants.  The  commercial  pros- 
perity of  a  nation  depends  upon  the  certainty  of  the  return, 
not  on  the  magnitude  of  the  venture.  As  things  are  now 
managed  in  the  city,  the  greatest  house  falls  first,  and  draws 
with  it  the  ruin  of  a  multitude  of  little  ones.  Next  to  the 
parties  immediately  concerned,  the  public  creditors  will  be 
the  first  to  feel  the  consequences  of  this  ruinous  system.  The 
funds  allotted  for  their  security,  depend  chiefly  upon  the 
produce  of  the  customs;  these  depend  upon  your  trade,  and 
it  requires  no  prophet  to  foretell,  that  a  false  and  ruinous 
system  of  trade  cannot  long  be  maintained.  It  begins  with 
private  beggary,  and  ends  in  public  ruin.  I  do  not  pretend 
to  say  that  the  landholder  will  be  quite  at  his  ease,  when 
public  credit  is  shaken.  But  his  at  least  is  a  solid  security; 
the  other  a  mere  bubble,  which  the  first  rude  breath  of  ill- 
fortune  or  of  danger  may  reduce  to  nothing. 

I  wish  it  could  be  proved,  that  any  one  circumstance  in 
this  representation  is  false  or  exaggerated.  On  the  other 
hand,  if  it  be  true,  the  concealment,  of  a  moment  more  or 
less,  signifies  nothing.  It  is  agreed  on  all  hands,  that  we  are 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  253 

in  no  condition  to  meet  a  war.  Our  enemies  know  and  pre- 
sume upon  it.  The  experience  of  many  centuries  sufficiently 
proves,  that  their  natural  restlessness  will  not  long  permit 
them  to  observe  the  conditions  of  any  peace.  At  present  they 
have  other  additional  motives  to  draw  them  into  action.  The 
articles  of  the  last  peace  dishonoured  them  in  the  eyes  of 
Europe.  Necessity  alone  compelled  them  to  submit  to  it. 
As  long  as  the  necessity  subsists,  the  peace  will  be  main- 
tained. In  the  mean  they  hazard  such  strokes  as  would  be  a 
just  foundation  of  a  war,  if  we  had  strength  or  spirits  to  re- 
new it.  Dunkirk  remains  undemolished,  and  Corsica*  is 
added  to  the  dominion  of  France.  They  know  the  miserable 
state  of  our  finances,  the  distraction  and  weakness  of  our 
government,  and  above  all,  the  alarming  differences  which 
threaten  a  rupture  with  our  colonies.  To  suppose  that  they 
will  not  take  advantage  of  these  circumstances,  is  supposing 
that  a  few  years  have  changed  the  stamina  of  a  French  con- 
stitution. On  the  other  hand,  to  say  that  they  are  as  little  in 
a  condition  to  make  war  as  ourselves  is  mere  trifling.  Their 
enterprizes  prove  the  contrary.  Their  finances  are  upon  a 
much  better  footing  than  ours,  and  at  the  worst,  they  have  a 
remedy,  which  a  British  parliament  will  never  make  use  of, 
but  in  the  last  extremity.  The  French  apply  it  without  scru- 
ple, and,  as  far  as  I  can  observe,  without  any  bad  effect  to 
themselves.  In  short,  they  consider  our  weakness  more  than 
their  own  strength,  in  adherence  to  their  old  policy,  que  la 
foiblesse  de  P  ennemi  fait  notre  propre  force. 

A  prudent  man,  whose  property  is  in  the  funds,  would  do 
well  to  consider  the  truth  of  this  representation.  What  se- 
curity has  he,  when  the  slightest  rumour  of  bad  news  from 
America  robs  him  of  four  or  five  per  cent,  upon  his  capital, 
when  worse  news  from  that  quarter  is  expected  every  hour, 
and  when  the  expectation  of  a  foreign  war  is  founded  on 
facts  and  reasoning  strong  enough  to  constitute  the  clearest 
moral  certainty?  To   say  that   public    credit  has  hitherto 

*  See  Junius,  letters  in.  and  xn.  in  which  the  subject  is  again  men- 
tioned by  the  author  and  explained  in  the  notes.  Edit. 


254  MISCELLANEOUS 

passed  safely  through  the  fiery  trial  of  war  and  rebellion, 
proves  nothing.  No  conclusion  can  be  drawn  from  a  debt  of 
forty-six  millions,  at  which  it  stood  in  1740,  to  the  present 
debt  of  one  hundred  and  forty  millions.  At  that  time  our 
resources  were  hardly  known,  at  this  period  they  are  known 
and  exhausted.  We  are  arrived  at  that  point  when  new  taxes 
either  produce  nothing,  or  defeat  the  old  ones,  and  when 
new  duties  only  operate  as  a  prohibition:  yet  these  are  the 
times,  Sir,  when  every  ignorant  boy  thinks  himself  fit  to  be 
a  minister*.  Instead  of  attendance  to  objects  of  national  im- 
portance, our  worthy  governors  are  contented  to  divide  their 
time  between  private  pleasures  and  ministerial  intrigues. 
Their  activity  is  just  equal  to  the  persecution  of  a  prisoner 
in  the  king's  Benchf,  and  to  the  honourable  struggle  of  pro- 
viding for  their  dependants.  If  there  be  a  good  man  in  the 
king's  service  they  dismiss  him  of  course;  and  when  bad 
news  arrives,  instead  of  uniting  to  consider  of  a  remedy, 
their  time  is  spent  in  accusing  and  reviling  one  another. 
Thus  the  debate  concludes  in  some  half  misbegotten  mea- 
sure, which  is  left  to  execute  itself.  Away  they  go:— one 
retires  to  his  country-house;  another  is  engaged  at  a  horse- 
race; a  third  has  an  appointment  with  a  prostitute: — and  as 
to  their  country,  they  leave  her,  like  a  cast  off  mistress,  to 
perish  under  the  diseases  they  have  given  her. 

ATTIC  US. 


LETTER  XXXIV. 

10  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE   PUBLIC  AUVERTISER. 
Sir,  23  August,  1/68. 

Amidst  the  general  indignation  which  has  been  excited 
by  the  marked  affront  lately  put  upon  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst, 
it  is  odd  to  find  people  puzzling  themselves  about  the  mo- 
tives which  have  actuated  administration  in  this  extraordi- 

•  The  Duke  of  Grafton  was  first  lord  of  the  treasury  at  this  period.— 
Edit. 
f  Wilkes.  Eon 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  255 

nary  procedure.  Nothing  is  more  short  and  easy  than  the 
solution  of  this  affected  difficulty.  They  were  ordered  to  act 
in  this  manner. 

The  public  knows,  and  can  know  no  other  reason.  The 
ministry  know,  and  desire  to  know  no  other  reason.  They 
have  not  the  slightest  quarrel  with  Sir  Jeffrey  Amherst. 
They  have  not  the  most  trivial  regard  for  Lord  Boutetort. 
Some  of  them  are  known  even  to  hate  his  lordship;  the  rest 
are  scarcely  acquainted  with  him;  but  they  have  received 
the  order,  and  that  is  enough  for  them.  Their  whole  political 
system  is  wrapped  up  in  one  short  maxim — 

"  My  author  and  disposer!  what  thou  bid'st 
Unargued  I  obey!" 

In  this  lesson  they  are  perfect  to  a  miracle;  and  the  signal 
proof  they  have  just  given  of  their  daring  and  determined 
servility,  shews  them  altogether  worthy  of  that  confidence 
which  the  favourite  so  wisely  reposed  in  them  (during  his 
pleasure)  the  depositaries  of  his  intentions,  and  the  trustees 
of  his  power. 

But  although  it  be  in  vain  to  seek  for  any  higher  principle 
than  blind  obedience  in  the  formal  and  executive  members 
of  the  ministry,  it  is  worth  while  to  examine  a  little  more 
minutely  the  motives  which  might  actuate  in  this  affair  the 
secret  but  deliberate  and  guiding  part  of  administration. 

Can  we  believe  from  the  monstrousness,  or  can  we  doubt 
from  the  notoriety  of  the  fact,  that  the  political  principles 
held  by  the  present  governor  of  Virginia,  during  the  great- 
est part  of  his  life,  and  avowed,  almost  without  a  mask, 
could  be  his  sole  recommendation  to  that  employment?  Can 
we  believe  that  these  principles  constitute  such  a  transcend- 
ent degree  of  merit,  as  makes  it  necessary  to  reward  its  pos- 
sessor at  the  expense  of  the  national  honour,  gratitude,  and 
safety?  Such  merit  must  be  served  in  any  way,  and  at  any 
price.  A  peerage,  which  every  one  knows  could  not  be  had 
without  the  royal  countenance,  was  not  sufficient.  It  was  too 
little  that  he  was  put  into  an  honourable  employment  near 
the  person  of  his  sovereign.   After  an  unsuccessful  attempt 


256  MISCELLANEOUS 

to  reward  him  further  by  a  violation  of  our  laws  in  an  illegal 
patent,  he  is  now  to  be  provided  for  by  the  ruin  of  our  af- 
fairs in  a  critical  and  important  government. 

As  a  part  of  this  system,  and  in  order  to  give  it  a  due 
roundness  and  relief,  it  was  thought  proper  not  only  to  af- 
front living  merit,  but  to  insult  and  trample  upon  the  sacred 
ashes  of  the  dead.  It  was  not  forgot  under  whose  patronage 
Sir  JefFery  Amherst  first  appeared  in  the  world.  It  was  not 
forgot  that  he  was  one  of  the  many  public  benefits  derived 
to  this  country  from  that  great  school  of  military  know- 
ledge and  loyal  sentiments,  the  family  of  the  late  Duke  of 
Cumberland.  Here  was  a  glorious  opportunity  of  cherish- 
ing a  true  friend  to  despotism,  and  at  the  same  time  of  in- 
sulting the  memory  of  him  who  had  been  the  heavy  scourge, 
and  (it  was  once  hoped)  the  final  destroyer  of  that  cause. 
This  opportunity  was  not  lost. 

To  return:  I  have  said  that  the  justly  obnoxious  principles 
at  which  I  have  hinted,  constitute,  or  seem  at  least  to  consti- 
tute the  sole  merit  of  the  new  governor.  If  the  friends  of  the 
ministry  can  discover  any  other,  they  would  be  very  kind  to 
mention  them.  The  public  looks  upon  this  transaction  in  a 
very  serious  light.  Nothing  but  the  strongest  conviction  that 
the  very  salvation  of  America  depends  upon  the  abilities  of 
Lord  Boutetort,  can  reconcile  them  to  the  affront  which  has 
been  put  upon  Sir  JefFery  Amherst. 

They  derive  no  consolation  from  being  told  that  this  me- 
ritorious commander  had  received  a  previous  intimation  to 
repair  to  his  government,  with  which  he  shewed  himself  un- 
willing to  comply.  They  are  as  dissatisfied  as  ever;  first,  be- 
cause the  fact  itself,  standing  upon  no  higher  authority  than 
ministerial  assertion,  will  be  disputed.  Falsehood  is  a  servile 
vice;  and  to  the  imputation  of  that  vice  people  in  a  slavish 
condition,  whether  low  or  high  (for  servitude,  as  well  as  hell, 
has  its  ranks  and  dignities),  will  always  be  subject;  especially 
if  ministers  are  known  to  have  found  the  dexterous  art  of 
splitting  themselves,  and  possessing  one  character  in  which 
to  promise,  and  another  in  which  to  act*. 


*  See  Miscellaneous  Letters,  No.  xxi.  Edit 


. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  257 

But  with  all  the  advantage  of  their  supple  habits  and  of 
their  double  characters,  will  they  venture  to  assert,  that  the 
arrangement  in  favour  of  Lord  Boutetort  was  not  determin- 
ed upon  before  they  had  consulted  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst  con- 
cerning a  residence  in  Virginia?  In  the  next  place,  did  they 
not  know  that  his  residence  in  the  character  of  governor  in 
America,  where  he  had  before  commanded  in  chief,  was  a 
thing  incompatible  with  all  the  ideas  entertained  by  military 
men  concerning  rank  and  precedence?  And  if  so,  was  not  the 
order  for  residence  given  (if  it  was  given)  that  it  might  be 
disobeyed?  Is  it  not  an  heavy  aggravation,  instead  of  the 
least  excuse  for  their  offence? 

Lastly,  the  public  would  be  glad  to  know  how  it  comes 
that  this  grand  ministerial  reformation  was  taken  up  in  this 
single  instance;  it  made  no  part  of  a  general  arrangement.  If 
it  were  done  in  consideration  of  the  colonies,  let  me  ask, 
whether  the  people  of  Virginia  have  lately  complained  of  the 
absence  of  their  governor,  under  which  they  have  acquiesced 
upwards  of  fifty  years?  If  it  was  done  on  the  part  of  Great 
Britain,  again  let  me  enquire  whether  the  lieutenant-gover- 
nors, who  have  acted  during  those  fifty  years,  have  wanted 
authority,  knowledge,  or  capacity?  If  they  did,  in  what  man- 
ner is  the  defect  supplied  by  the  new  appointment?  Is  the 
new  governor  invested  with  any  larger  powers  than  the  late 
lieutenant-governors?  Or  is  he  endued  with  a  greater  degree 
of  experience,  knowledge,  or  sagacity  for  the  exercise  of 
those  powers?  No,  no;  the  manner  of  filling  the  vacancy 
made  by  the  removal  of  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst  sets  in  the 
broad  glare  of  day-light  the  true  reasons  for  making  it;  it  was 
not  done  to  reform  a  public  abuse,  but  to  accommodate  a 
private  job;  it  was  not  Virginia  that  wanted  a  governor,  but 
a  court  favr)u'ri'te%T9^vfllAd4ll?9WiaTaf. 

I  cannot  help  observing  in  the  ministerial  writings  with 
which  the  papers  have  been  lately  filled,  that  much  scurrilous 
abuse  has  been  thrown  out  against  the  Whig  party  and  Whig 
principles.  Permit  me  to  congratulate  the  ministers  on  this 
well-chosen  topic:  the  defence  is  worthy  of  the  cause.  They 
tell  us,  that  all  party  distinctions  ought  to  be  done  awav,  and 

Vol.  II.  2  K 


258  MISCELLANEOUS 

that  men  of  all  kinds  ought  to  have  an  equal  share  in  public 
employment.  This  notion,  taken  with  due  corrections,  has 
some  sense,  but  in  their  application  much  absurdity.  No 
man  would  prevent  the  public  from  being  served  by  the  abili- 
ties of  any  person,  because  he  might  have  the  misfortune  in 
some  time  of  his  life  to  be  mistaken  in  his  political  opinions 
or  connections.  But  every  Whig  thinks  it  fair,  that  persons 
under  such  circumstances  should  be  obliged  to  produce  some 
other  merit  besides  those  ?nistakcs;  and  that  they  should  give 
some  other  proofs  of  their  conversion  to  the  principles  of  our 
happy  establishment,  than  their  necessity  or  their  desire  of 
partaking  in  the  emoluments  which  it  has  to  bestow. 

This  surely  is  the  sentiment  and  language  of  candour  and 
moderation.  This  ought  to  be  the  inviolable  rule  where  the 
question  is  concerning  offices  of  trust,  and  which  require 
weight  and  ability  for  their  execution.  When  the  question  is 
concerning  the  mere  graces  of  the  crown,  the  rule  is,  to  be- 
come even  more  severe;  and  every  lover  of  the  constitution 
must  think  it  a  crime  hardly  less  than  treason  in  those  who 
shall  advise  a  court  to  discountenance  the  families  which  have 
promoted  the  revolution,  and  at  the  same  time  to  load  with 
its  favours  those  who  (reconciled  by  profit,  not  by  opinion) 
have  ever  been  the  declared  enemies  both  of  the  revolution, 
and  of  every  benefit  we  derive  from  that  happy  event.  You 
may  h,ear  again  from 

Your  humble  servant, 

VALERIUS. 


LETTER  XXXV. 

TO  THE  EARL  OF  HILLSBOROUGH. 

My  Lord,  (/*>*  ••  "i^  /•rW  ^,**Vi/^ugust,  1768. 
The  honourable  lead  yo^T  have  taken  in  the  affairs  of 
America,  hath  drawn  upon  you  the  whole  attention  of  the 
public.  You  declared  yourself  the  single  minister  for  that 
country,  and  it  was  very  proper  you  should  convince  the 
world  you  were  so,  by  marking  your  outset  with  a  coup 
(T eclat.  The  dismission  of  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst  has  given  a 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  259 

perfect  establishment  to  your  authority,  and  I  presume  you 
will  not  think  it  necessary  or  useful  to  hazard  strokes  of  this 
sort  hereafter.  It  will  be  adviseable  at  least  to  wait  until  this 
affair  is  forgotten,  and  if  you  continue  in  office  till  that  hap- 
pens you  will  surely  be  long  enough  a  minister  to  satisfy  all 
your  ambition. 

The  world  attributes  to  your  lordship  the  entire  honour 
of  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst's  dismission,  because  there  is  no  other 
person  in  the  cabinet,  who  could  be  supposed  to  have  a  wish 
or  motive  to  give  such  advice  to  the  crown.  The  Duke  of  ^  t^'J-fC 
Grafton^nd  the   chancellor   were  once  Lord  Chatham's       /7  ff^ 
friends.  However  their  views  may  now  be  altered,  they  must       Kjfa\4i>f}. 
know  it  would  disgrace  them  in  the  eyes  of  the  public,  to  ' 

offer  an  unprovoked  outrage  to  a  man  whose  conduct  and  exe- 
cution had  contributed  not  a  little  to  their  patron's  glory. 

The  Duke  of  Bedford  and  his  friends  have  uniformly  held 
forth  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst  as  the  first  military  man  in  this 
country; — they  have  quoted  him  on  all  occasions,  when  mili- 
tary knowledge  was  in  question,  and  even  been  lavish  in  his 
praise.  Besides  they  openly  disclaim  any  share  in  this  mea- 
sure, and  they  are  believed.  5^ 

The  Earl  of  Shelburneusually  finds  himself  in  opposition,  d^cidfc** 
therefore  is  not  too  often  consulted.  In  this  instance  he  cer-  /       y*    It 
tainly  did  not  concur  with  the  majority.   He  still  is  or  pre-/^  ^      i^** 
tends  to  be  attached  to  Lord  Chatham,  and  I  fancy  he  is  not  T*^* 

yet  so  cordially  reconciled  to  the  loss  of  the  American  de- 
partment, as  to  dishonour  himself  merely  to  oblige  your 
lordship. 

You  will  not  venture  to  insinuate  that  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst 
was  dismissed  by  the  advice  of  Lord  Granby  or  Sir  Edward £*!»,. ^/L, 
Hawke.  Military  men  have  a  sense  of  honour  which  your 
lordship  has  no  notion  of.  They  feel  for  a  gallant  officer  who 
had  his  full  share  in  the  toils  and  honour,  and  had  some  right 
to  a  share  in  the  profits  of  the  war.  They  feel  for  the  army 
and  the  navy.  Lord  Granby  himself  has  some  emoluments 
besides  his  power,  and  Sir  Edward  Hawke  has  his  pension. 
Nobly  earned  I  confess,  but  not  better  deserved  than  by  the 
labours  which  conquered  America  in  America.  Besides,  my 


260  MISCELLANEOUS 

lord,  the  commander-in-chief  is  the  patron  of  the  army.  It 
was  a  common  cause  which  he  could  not  desert  without  in- 
famy and  reproach.  Lord  Granby  is  not  a  man  to  take  his 
tone  from  any  minister.  Where  his  honour  is  concerned  he 
scorns  to  adopt  an  humble  ministerial  language;  he  never 
would  say — that  indeed  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst  xvas  rather  un- 
reasonable— that  his  terms  were  exorbitant,  that  he  had  still 
two  regiments  left;  and  might  xvell  be  contented.— -This  is  a 
language  it  is  impossible  he  should  hold,  while  he  himself  is 
master-general  of  the  ordnance,  colonel  of  the  blues,  and 
>'•*  V  commander-in-chief,  with  a  whole  family  upon  the  staff.  He 
knows  the  value,  and  could  not  but  be  sensible  of  the  loss  of 
those  honourable  rewards  which  his  distinguished  capacity, 
his  care  of  the  public  money,  and  his  able  conduct  in  Ger- 
many had  justly  entitled  him  to. 

I  think  I  have  now  named  all  the  cabinet  but  the  Earl  of 
Chatham. 

His  infirmities  have  forced  him  into  a  retirement,  where  I 

presume  he  is  ready  to  suffer,  with  a  sullen  submission,  every 

insult  and  disgrace  that  can  be  heaped  upon  a  miserable,  de- 

crepid,  worn  out  old  man.  But  it  is  impossible  he  should  be 

ffcrt*'  .  1- ■  ♦'  '  so  far  active  in  his  own  dishonour,  as  to  advise  the  taking 

M>ft*'  -  it*  away  an  employment,  given  as  a  reward  for  the  first  military 
/.  ^  success  that  distinguished  his  entrance  into  administration. 
He  is  indeed  a  compound  of  contradictions,  but  his  letter  to 
Sir  Jeffery  Amherst  stands  upon  record,  and  is  not  to  be  ex- 
plained away.  You  know,  my  lord,  that  Mr.  Pitt  therein 
assured  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst,  that  the  government  of  Vir- 
^  ginia   was   given   fyim    merely  as  a  reward,  and  solemnly 

O  + ■■. .  wi<,  "  pledged  the  royal  faith  that  his  residence  should  never  be  re- 
quired. Lost  as  he  is,  he  would  not  dare  to  contradict  this 
letter.  If  he  did,  it  would  be  something  more  than  madness. 
The  disorder  must  have  quitted  his  head,  and  fixed  itself  in 
his  heart. 

The  business  is  now  reduced  to  a  point,  either  your  lord- 
ship advised  this  measure,  or  it  happened  by  accident.  You 
must  suffer  the  whole  reproach,  for  you  are  entitled  to  all 
the  honour  of  it.  What  then  is  apparently  the  fact?  one  of 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  261 

your  cringing,  bowing,  fawning,  sword-bearing  brother  cour- 
tiers* ruins  himself  by  an  enterprizef,  which  would  have 
ruined  thousands  if  it  had  succeeded.  It  becomes  necessary 
to  send  him  abroad.  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst  is  one  of  the 
mildtst  and  most  moderate  of  men; — ergo,  such  a  man  will 
bear  any  thing.  His  government  will  be  a  handsome  provi- 
sion for  Boutetort,  and  if  he  frets — why  he  may  have  a  pen- 
sion. Your  emissaries  lose  their  labour,  when  they  talk  with 
so  much  abhorrence  of  sinecures,  non-residence,  and  the 
necessity  of  the  king's  service.  You  are  conscious,  my  lord, 
that  these  are  pompous  words  without  a  shadow  of  meaning. 
The  whole  nation  is  convinced  that  the  fact  is  such  as  I  have 
stated  it.  But  to  make  it  a  little  plainer,  I  shall  ask  your 
lordship  a  few  questions,  to  which  the  public  will  expect,  and 
your  reputation,  if  you  have  any  regard  for  it,  demands,  that 
you  should  give  an  immediate  and  strict  answer. 

1.  When  the  government  of  Virginia  was  offered  to  Sir 
Jeffery  Amherst,  did  he  not  reply,  that  his  military  employ- 
ments  took  up  all  his  time,  and  that  he  could  not  accept  the 
government  if  residence  were  expected? 

2.  Did  not  Mr.  Pitt,  then  secretary  of  state,  assure  him  in 
the  king's  name,  that  it  was  meant  only  as  a  mark  of  his 
Majesty's  favour,  and  that  this  residence  would  never  be 
expected? 

3.  Has  there  ever  been  any  further  mark  of  favour  con- 
ferred upon  this  gentleman,  for  all  those  important  services, 
which  succeeded  the  conquest  of  Cape  Breton? 

But  now  for  questions  of  a  later  date. 

1.  Was  not  Lord  Boutetort's  appointment  absolutely  fixed 
on  or  before  Sunday  the  31st  of  July? 

2.  Had  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst  the  least  intimation  of  the 
measure  before  Thursday  the  4th  of  August? 

3.  Was  it  not  then  mentioned  to  him  in  general  terms,  as 
a  measure  merely  in  contemplation,  without  the  most  distant 
hint  that  Lord  Boutetort,  or  any  other  person,  was  actually 
in  possession  of  his  government? 

*  Lord  Boutetort.  f  The  W y  Company, 


262  MISCELLANEOUS 

4.  Did  not  Lord  Boutetort  kiss  hands  the  next  day,  that 
is  on  Friday  the  5th  of  August? 

5.  Did  you  not  dare  to  tell  your  sovereign  that  Sir  Jeffery 
Amherst  was  perfectly  satisfied,  when  you  knew  your  treat- 
ment of  him  was  such  as  the  vilest  peasant  could  not  have 
submitted  to  without  resentment? 

Finally,  my  lord,  is  it  not  a  fact,  that  Sir  Jeffery  Am- 
herst, having  been  called  upon  some  time  ago  to  give  his 
opinion  upon  a  measure  of  the  highest  importance  in  Ame- 
rica, gave  it  directly  against  a  favourite  scheme  of  your  lord- 
ship; and  is  not  this  the  real  cause  of  all  your  antipathy  to 
him?  Your  heart  tells  you  that  it  is. 

Now,  my  lord,  you  have  voluntarily  embarked  in  a  most 
odious,  perhaps  it  may  prove  to  you  a  most  dangerous,  busi- 
ness. Your  Pylades  will  sneak  away  to  his  government;  but 
you  must  stand  the  brunt  of  it  here.  For  the  questions  which 
»  I  have  proposed  to  you,  I  must  tell  you  plainly,  that  they 

must,  and  shall  be  answered. 

You  may  affect  to  take  no  notice  of  them,  perhaps,  and  tell 

us  you  treat  them  with  the  contempt  they  deserve.   Such  an 

expedient  may  be  wise  and  spirited  enough  when  applied  to 

a  declaration  of  rebellion  on  the  part  of  the  colonies,  and 

.    God  knows  it  has  succeeded  admirably.  But  it  shall  not 

y  avail  you  here. 

Nttm  negare  audes?  £htid  faces?  Convincam  si  negas. 

LUCIUS. 


V 
v 


LETTER  XXXVI. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  30  August,  l^S. 

I  shall  not  pretend  to  enter  into  the  merits  of  Sir  Jeffery 
Amherst's  dismission  from  his  government  of  Virginia. 
Every  body  knows  he  deserves  a  great  deal  of  the  public: 
and  if  what  I  have  heard  be  true,  even  the  present  adminis- 
tration do  not  refuse  it  him.  But  there  are  a  number  of  busy 
incendiaries,  who  use  every  means  to  poison  the  minds  of 
the  good  people  of  England,  and  to  abuse  those  in  power 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  263 

whoever  they  are.  These  neither  inquire  into  the  truth  of 
the  matter,  nor  do  they  fail  to  shew  the  most  disagreeable 
view  of  every  action  of  the  ministry.  An  impudent  varlet 
Y.  Z.  in  this  day's  paper,  talks  of  forty  or  fifty  lives  lost  in 
St.  George's  fields.  When  was  it?  Others  have  heaped  to- 
gether a  parcel  of  ill-natured  lies,  and  given  it  the  name  of 
an  account  of  the  dismission  of  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst. 

The  particulars  of  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst's  dismission,  I  am 
told,  are  as  follow:  for  very  urgent  reasons  it  had  been  de- 
termined the  governor  general  of  every  province  in  America 
should  reside.  Upon  which  Lord  Hillsborough  wrote  a  let- 
ter to  Sir  Jeffery,  acquainting  him  of  this  resolution.  After 
making  very  honourable  mention  of  his  service  in  America, 
how  much  his  country  was  obliged  to  him  for  that  activity, 
steadiness  and  courage,  which  so  eminently  distinguished 
the  commander,  and  which  from  his  example  diffused  itself 
through  the  whole  army,  by  which  means  the  British  arms 
were  crowned  with  success,  and  the  war  so  happily  conclud- 
ed in  that  part  of  the  world;  he  mentioned  the  very  high  opi- 
nion his  Majesty  had  of  him  both  as  a  man  and  as  a  soldier, 
and  how  much  it  would  be  to  his  satisfaction,  was  it  suitable 
to  Sir  Jeffery's  inclinations  and  circumstances,  to  go  to  Vir- 
ginia and  take  upon  him  the  supreme  command  in  that  pro- 
vince: but  if  it  was  not  convenient,  he  might  depend  on  it, 
that  his  Majesty  would  take  the  earliest  opportunity  of 
doing  justice  to  his  merits,  by  making  him  a  recompense 
equivalent  at  least  to  the  loss  of  his  government. 

This  letter  was  scarce  finished  when  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst 
called  at  Lord  Hillsborough's  on  some  other  business.  His 
lordship  took  that  opportunity  to  explain  the  intentions  of 
administration  by  such  a  measure,  gave  him  the  letter,  and 
Sir  Jeffery  seemed  to  be  convinced  of  the  necessity  of  the 
arrangement,  acquiesced  in  the  proposals  made  to  him,  and 
went  away  to  all  appearance  well  satisfied. 

If  it  was  next  or  not,  I  know  not,  but  Sir  Jeffery  very 
soon  after  this  demanded  an  audience  of  his  Majesty,  and 
I  resigned  the  command  of  his  regiments. 

This  not  being  accepted  of,  and  the  ministry  willing  to 


264  MISCELLANEOUS 

keep  such  a  man  in  the  service,  and  not  wishing  to  give 
cause  for  his  resignation,  endeavoured  to  reason  with 
him;  upon  which  he  (Sir  Jeffery  Amherst)  delivered  or 
sent  to  the  Duke  of  Grafton  the  following  articles  of 
accommodation. 

1.  A  British  peerage  to  himself,  and  failing  heirs  of  his 
body,  to  descend  to  his  brother  the  colonel. 

2.  A  recompense  equivalent  to  the  loss  of  his  govern- 
ment. 

3.  An  exclusive  right  of  working  the  coal  mines  at  Louis- 
bourg  to  him  and  his  heirs  for  ever. 

4.  A  grant  of  lands  in  America  to  a  certain  extent. 

5.  And  in  case  it  should  be  judged  expedient  to  create 
American  peers,  that  he  should  have  the  pre-eminence. 

The  Duke  of  Grafton  on  receiving  this,  begged  to  see  Sir 
JefFery.  Who  sent  him  word,  if  the  interview  was  intended 
to  induce  him  to  lower  his  demands,  it  was  totally  unneces- 
sary. His  grace  then  went  to  him,  and  gave  him  the  follow- 
ing answers. 

1.  British  peerages  were  generally  given  to  such,  whose 
opulent  fortunes  enables  them  to  support  that  high  dignity. 
This  reason  he  apprehended  Sir  Jeffery  could  not  plead. 

2.  It  always  had  been  his  Majesty's  intentions  to  make 
him  a  recompense  equivalent  to  his  government. 

3.  Reasons  political  and  commercial  forbade  the  working 
of  the  American  coal  mines  at  all. 

4.  He  might  have  the  grant  of  lands  in  America,  when, 
where,  and  to  what  extent  he  pleased;  but  he  did  not  appre- 
hend there  was  the  least  reason  to  make  the  fifth  demand,  as 
he  supposed  a  creation  of  American  peers  would  never  take 
place. 

Sir  Jeffery  Amherst's  regiments  are  not  given  away. 

I  shall  make  no  comment  on  this.  I  tell  it  as  a  fact,  which 
I  have  heard  from  what  people  call  good  authority.  The 
dismission  of  an  experienced  and  deserving  commander  re- 
quires some  attention;  and  there  can  be  no  harm  in  making 
the  public  acquainted  with  it.  The  number  of  falsehoods 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  265 

that  have  been  spread  abroad  about  this  transaction  have 

induced  me  to  send  you  this. 

I  must  tell  you,  however,  that  my  information  is  second 

hand;  but  it  may  have  this  good  effect,  even  if  not  true,  to 

induce  those  who  know  the  contrary  to  do  as  I  have  done. 

I  shall  therefore  conclude  with  this   question:    are  these 

things  true  or  not? 

CLEOPHAS, 


LETTER  XXXVII. 

TO  THE  EARL  OF  HILLSBOROUGH. 
My  Lord,  i  September,  1768. 

In  the  ordinary  course  of  life,  a  regularity  of  accounts,  a 
precision  in  points  of  fact,  and  a  punctual  reference  to  dates, 
form  a  strong  presumption  of  integrity.  On  the  other  hand, 
an  apparent  endeavour  to  perplex  the  order  and  simplicity 
of  facts,  to  confound  dates,  and  to  wander  from  the  main 
question,  are  shrewd  signs  of  a  rotten  cause  and  of  a  guilty 
conscience.  Let  the  public  determine  between  your  lordship 
and  me.  You  have  forfeited  all  title  to  respect;  but  I  shall 
treat  you  with  tenderness  and  mercy,  as  I  would  a  criminal 
at  the  bar  of  justice. 

In  your  letter  signed  Cleophas  you  are  pleased  to  assum 
the  character  of  a  person  half  informed.  We  understand  the 
use  of  this  expedient.  You  avail  yourself  of  every  thing  that 
can  be  said  for  you  by  a  third  person,  without  being  obliged 
to  abide  by  the  apology,  if  it  should  fail  you.  My  lord,  this 
is  a  paltry  art,  unworthy  of  your  station,  unworthy  of  every 
thing  but  the  cause  you  have  undertaken  to  defend.  While 
you  pursue  these  artifices,  it  is  impossible  to  know  on  what 
principles  you  really  rest  your  defence.  But  you  may  shift 
your  ground  as  often  as  you  please;  you  shall  gain  no  ad- 
vantage by  it.  Your  lordship,  under  the  character  of  Cleo- 
phas, is  exactly  acquainted  with  particulars,  which  could 
only  be  known  to  a  few  persons,  while  you  totally  forget  a 
series  of  facts  known  to  thousands.  You  can  repeat  everv 

Vol.  II.  2  L 


266  MISCELLANEOUS 

article  of  your  own  letter  to  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst*,  though 
your  own  memory  be  too  weak  to  recollect  on  what  day 
Lord  Boutetort's  appointment  was  fixed,  on  what  day  he 

•  This  letter  was  at  length  published  Nov.  2,  and  is  as  follows. 

Sir,  Hanover  Square,  27  July,  1798. 

I  am  commanded  by  the  king  to  acquaint  you,  that  his  Majesty,  upon  a 
consideration  of  the  dispatches  lately  received  from  Virginia,  thinks  it  ne- 
cessary for  his  service,  that  his  governor  of  that  colony  should  immediate- 
ly repair  to  his  government;  and  at  the  same  time,  to  express  to  you  the 
high  opinion  his  Majesty  has  of  your  ability  to  serve  him  in  that  situation. 
But  it  is  not  the  king's  intention  to  press  you  to  go  upon  that  service,  un- 
less it  shall  be  perfectly  agreeable  to  your  inclination,  as  well  as  entirely 
convenient  to  you.  His  Majesty  does  not  forget,  that  the  government  of 
Virginia  was  conferred  upon  you  as  a  mark  of  royal  favour,  and  as  are- 
ward  for  the  very  great  services  you  have  done  for  the  public,  so  much  to 
your  own  honour,  and  so  much  to  the  advantage  of  this  kingdom,  and 
therefore  his  Majesty  is  very  solicitous  that  you  should  not  mistake  his 
gracious  intention  on  this  occasion. 

If  you  chuse  to  go  immediately  to  your  government,  it  will  be  extreme- 
ly satisfactory  to  his  Majesty,  if  you  do  not,  his  Majesty  wishes  to  appoint 
a  new  governor,  and  to  continue  to  you  in  some  other  shape,  that  emolu- 
ment which  was,  as  I  have  said  before,  intended  as  a  mark  of  the  royal 
sense  of  your  meritorious  services;  it  is  a  particular  pleasure  to  me  to  have 
the  honour  of  expressing  to  you  these  very  favourable  sentiments  of  our 
royal  master.  To  add  any  thing  from  myself,  would  be  a  degree  of  pre- 
sumption; I  will  therefore  only  request  the  favour  of  your  answer,  as  soon 
as  may  be  convenient,  and  take  the  liberty  to  assure  you,  that  I  am, 

HILLSBOROUGH. 
''    The  following  short  note  was  published  immediately  in  reply  to  it. 

Sir,  5  November,  1768. 

To  prevent  any  impression  which  may  arise  to  the  prejudice  of  Sir  Jef- 
fery Amherst  from  a  letter  circulated  by  the  Earl  of  Hillsborough,  and 
now  in  print,  it  is  only  necessary  to  observe  that  it  is  dated  the  27th  of 
July,  and  that  the  government  of  Virginia  was  given  to  Lord  Boutetort 
on  Sunday  the  24th.  This  being  the  fact,  the  humble  fawning  language  of 
the  secretary  of  state's  letter,  instead  of  a  compliment,  is  a  real  mockery 
and  insult.  A  true  idea  of  the  treatment  which  Sir  J.  A.  has  received,  can. 
only  be  had  by  observing  the  order  of  the  facts.  The  government  is  given 
away  on  Sunday.  The  secretary  of  state  writes  his  letter  on  Wednesday. 
He  and  Sir  J.  A.  meet  on  Thursday.  Not  the  most  distant  hint  is  given 
him  that  his  government  is  actually  disposed  of,  and  Lord  Boutetort  kiss- 
ed hands  next  morning.  This,  Sir,  is  the  treatment  which  Sir  J.  A.  con- 
siders as  an  affront  not  an  injury,  and  which  he  resents  as  he  ought.  If 
Lord  H.  had  not  published  his  letter,  I  should  not  have  thought  of  reviving 

a  question  on  which  the  public  was  before  completely  satisfied. 

A.  B 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  267 

kissed  hands,  and  on  what  day  the  design  was  opened  to  Sir 
Jeffery  Amherst.  These,  it  seems,  are  circumstances  of  no 
importance,  and  to  say  the  truth,  I  believe  they  are  such  as 
you  would  willingly  forget.  I  am  glad  to  find,  however,  that 
the  acknowledgment  of  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst's  merit  and  ser- 
vices could  not  be  more  full  and  formal  than  as  it  is  stated 
in  your  letter  to  him.  Upon  that  point  then  we  are  agreed. 

You  say  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst,  at  your  first  conversation, 
seemed  satisfied.  My  lord,  I  must  tell  you,  that  when  a 
secretary  of  state  assures  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst  that  any  parti- 
cular measure  is  necessary  for  the  king's  service,  he  is  too 
good  a  subject  to  set  his  private  interest  in  opposition  to  the 
public  welfare.  But  did  you  tell  him  that  his  government 
had  been  given  away  four  days  before?  Did  you  not  speak 
of  it  as  a  measure  in  Juturum,  which  was  not  to  take  place 
till  he  was  perfectly  satisfied?  In  short,  did  you  tell  him  that 
Lord  Boutetort  was  to  kiss  hands  next  morning?  Answer 
these  questions  like  a  man,  and  a  gentleman. 

When  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst  found  that  all  this  pretended 
necessity  of  the  king's  service  ended  in  a  provision  for  a 
ruinea  courtier,  he  felt  the  indignation  of  a  man  who  has 
received  an  affront,  not  an  injury.  Your  emissaries  affect  to 
say,  that  he  was  desired  to  repair  to  his  government,  and 
upon  his  refusal  was  dismissed.  This  you  know  was  not  the 
fact,  so  that  every  reasoning  built  upon  it  falls  to  the  ground. 
You  never  did  nor  could  propose  to  him,  to  return  to  Ame- 
rica in  a  rank  subordinate  to  General  Gage.  It  never  was  a 
question;  and  indeed  how  should  it,  when  his  government 
was  given  away  on  the  31st  of  July,  and  he  had  not  the  most 
distant  intimation  that  such  a  measure  was  thought  of,  until 
Thursday  the  4th  of  August.  Mark  these  dates,  my  lord, 
for  you  shall  not  escape  me. 

After  the  affront  had  been  fixed  upon  him  in  the  grossest 
manner,  he  was  desired  to  consider  what  satisfaction  he 
would  accept  of.  He  then  sent  to  the  Duke  of  Grafton  the 
demands,  which  you  have  stated  to  the  public.  These,  and 
the  answers  to  them,  shall  now  be  considered.  Th^  word 
demand  is  peremptory,  and  unfit  to  be  made  use  of  by  a  sub- 


268  MISCELLANEOUS 

ject  in  a  request  to  the  crown.  It  was  not  made  use  of  by  Sir 
Jcffery  Amherst,  though,  for  the  matter  of  it,  I  assert  with- 
out scruple,  that  a  man  of  distinguished  public  merit,  who 
has  been  signally  insulted,  is  not  in  the  case  of  a  suppliant, 
but  has  a  right  to  a  signal  reparation. 

The  Duke  of  Grafton's  idea  of  the  proper  object  of  a  Bri- 
tish peerage  differs  very  materially  from  mine.  His  grace, 
in  the  true  spirit  of  business,  looks  for  nothing  but  an  opu- 
lent fortune,  meaning,  I  presume,  the  fortune  which  can 
purchase  as  well  as  maintain  a  title.  We  understand  his 
grace,  and  know  who  dictated  that  article.  He  has  declared 
the  terms  on  which  Jews,  gamesters,  pedlars,  and  contrac- 
tors (if  they  have  sense  enough  to  take  the  hint)  may  rise 
without  difficulty  into  British  peers.  There  was  a  time 
indeed,  though  not  within  his  grace's  memory,  when  titles 
were  the  reward  of  public  virtue,  and  when  the  crown  did 
not  think  its  revenue  ill  employed  in  contributing  to  support 
the  honours  it  had  bestowed.  It  is  true  his  grace's  family 
derive  their  wealth  and  greatness  from  a  different  origin; — 
from  a  system  which  it  seems  he  is  determined  to  revive. 
His  confession  is  frank  at  least,  and  well  becomes  the  can- 
dour of  a  young  man.  I  dare  say,  that  if  either  his  grace  or 
your  lordship  had  had  the  command  of  a  seven  years'  war 
in  America,  you  would  have  taken  care  that  poverty,  how- 
ever honourable,  should  not  have  been  an  objection  to  your 
advancement; you  would  not  have  stood  in  the  predica- 
ment of  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst,  who  is  refused  a  title  of  honour 
because  he  did  not  create  a  fortune  equal  to  it  at  the  ex- 
pense of  the  public. 

For  the  matter  of  a  recompense  equivalent  to  his  govern- 
ment, he  repeatedly  told  your  lordship  that  the  name  of  pen- 
sion was  grating  to  his  ears;  and  that  he  would  accept  of  no 
revenue  that  was  not  at  the  same  time  honorary.  Your  lord- 
ship does  not  know  the  difference,  but  men  of  honour  feel  it. 

If  reasons  political  and  commercial  forbid  working  the 
coal-mines  in  America,  that  I  allow  is  an  answer  ad  hominem. 
It  may  be  a  true  one;  yet  I  do  not  despair  of  seeing  these 
very  mines  hereafter  granted  to  support  the  chastity  of  a 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  269 

minister's  whore,  the  integrity  of  a  pimp,  or  the  uncorrupted 
blood  of  a  bastard. 

His  grace  is  wonderfully  bountiful  in  the  article  of  landsj 
I  doubt  not  he  would  with  all  his  heart  give  Sir  Jeffery 
Armherst  the  fee-simple  of  every  acre  from  the  Mississippi 
to  California.  But  we  shall  be  the  less  surprised  at  his 
generosity,  when  we  consider  that  every  private  soldier  who 
served  a  certain  time  in  America  was  entitled  to  two  hun- 
dred acres,  and  that  not  one  man  out  of  perhaps  twenty 
thousand  claimants  has  yet  settled  upon  his  estate. 

As  to  American  peerages,  if  none  are  to  be  created,  the 
request  falls  of  course.  But  if  such  a  creation  had  been  in- 
tended, I  call  upon  your  lordship  to  point  out  a  man  better 
entitled  to  precedence  upon  that  list  than  Sir  Jeffery  Am- 
herst. 

Your  last  assertion  is  that  his  regiments  are  not  given 
away.  It  is  a  matter  of  perfect  indifference.  Yet  the  public 
has  reason  to  believe  that  Colonel  Hotham  is  now  colonel  of 
the  15th  regiment,  and  that  the  commission  of  commandant 
of  the  royal  Americans  only  waits  until  it  shall  be  determined 
whether  General  Gage  shall  be  recalled  or  not. 

Permit  me  now  to  refer  your  lordship  to  the  questions 
stated  in  my  last  letter,  and  to  desire  you  to  answer  them 
strictly.  If  you  do  not,  the  public  will  draw  its  own  conclu- 
sions. 

Your  emissaries,  my  lord,  have  rather  more  zeal  than 
discretion.  One  of  them,  who  calls  himself  A  considerate 
Englishman,  could  not  write  by  authority,  because  he  is  en- 
tirely unacquainted  with  facts.  His  declamation  therefore 
signifies  nothing.  In  his  assertions  however  there  is  some- 
thing really  not  unpleasant.  He  assures  us  that  your  lord- 
ship's great  abilities  were  brought  into  employment  to  cor- 
rect the  blunders  of  Mr.  Pitt's  administration.  It  puts  me  in 
mind  of  the  consulship  which  Caligula  intended  for  his 
horse,  and  of  a  project  which  Buckhorse  once  entertained  of 
obliging  the  learned  world  with  a  correct  edition  of  the 
classics. 

LUCIUS, 


270  MISCELLANEOUS 


LETTER  XXXVIII. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC  ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  6  September,  1768. 

When  a  worthless  administration  do  a  notorious  act  of 
injustice  to  a  good  man,  which  naturally  raises  the  indig- 
nation of  the  publii ;  they  are  not  satisfied  with  the  first  blowy 
but  their  emissaries  go  to  work  to  blacken  the  character 
which  was  fair  before,  in  order  to  justify  the  measures  of 
their  masters. 

In  this  light  I  must  look  upon  the  performance  of  your 
correspondent  Cleophas,  jun.  in  your  paper  of  to-dav. 

His  assertion,  "  that  the  Duke  of  Grafton  assured  Sir 
JefFery  Amherst  that  General  Gage  should  be  recalled,  if  Sir 
JefFery  chose  to  go  to  his  government"  is  an  absolute  falsity; 
for  (and  I  speak  from  very  good  authority)  the  matter  of 
the  chief  ammand  of  the  troops  never  was  mentioned, 
either  by  the  Duke  of  Grafton  or  any  of  his  colleagues. 
Had  it  been  so  Lord  Hillsborough  in  going  his  rounds  (his 
lordship  understands  me)  would  not  have  failed  to  have  ex- 
patiated fully  thereon;  but  the  letters  of  your  masterly  cor- 
respondent Lucius  have  drove  his  lordship  to  the  mean  and 
paltry  art  of  employing  some  of  his  nameless  dependants  to 
throw  out  insitiuatio?is,  which  he  knows  to  be  false,  )7et 
judging  from  the  general  run  of  mankind,  flatters  himself 
that  at  least  part  of  them  will  be  believed. 

My  design  being  only  to  set  the  public  right  in  regard  to 
the  assertion  of  Sir  JefFery  Amherst's  being  offered  the 
chief  command  of  the  troops,  which,  in  truth,  never  hap- 
pened, I  shall  take  no  notice  of  the  otht-r  part,  of  your  cor- 
respondent's letter;  but  leave  him  and  his  bungling  patrons 
to  find  in  the  list  of  the  army  an  officer  so  fit  as  Sir  Jeffery 
Amherst  to  deal  with  the  refractory  colonists, 

L.  L. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  271 

LETTER  XXXIX. 

FOR    THE     PUBLIC    ADVERTISER. 

7  Sept.  1768. 
Quid  enim  est  minus,  non  dico  oratoris,  sed  hominis,  guam  id  objicere 
adversario,  quod  Me  si  verbo  negarit,  longius  firogredi  non  fioarit 
qui  objecerit?— Cicero. 

TO  THE  EARL  OF  HILLSBOROUGH. 
My  Lord, 

The  bare  assertion  of  a  falsehood  requires  nothing  more 
than  a  determined  countenance.  To  maintain  a  consistent 
falsehood  not  only  demands  a  genius  of  invention,  but  a 
faithful  memory.  In  your  lordship's  letter,  signed  Cleophas, 
jun.  you  are  pleased  to  assert  that  the  Duke  of  Grafton 
offered  to  recall  General  Gage  in  order  that  Sir  Jeffery 
Amherst  might  return  to  America  with  the  chief  command 
of  the  king's  forces.  Now,  my  lord,  I  absolutely  deny  the 
fact,  and  as  the  public  will  not  expect  me  to  prove  a  nega- 
tive, I  shall  leave  it  to  your  lordship  to  produce  your  evi- 
dence, if  you  have  any. 

Really,  my  good  lord,  your  letters  upon  business  are 
drawn  up  with  very  little  caution.  In  one  article  you  tell  us 
that  the  chief  command  in  America  was  offered  to  Sir  Jeffery 
Amherst,  and,  in  the  next,  that  he  has  been  discovered  for 
some  time  past  to  entertain  a  strong  partiality  for  the  refrac- 
tory colonists.  If  both  these  facts  were  true,  what  an  opinion 
must  we  conceive  of  a  ministry  careless  and  imprudent 
enough  to  intrust  a  man  so  biassed  with  such  a  command! 
You  see,  my  lord,  to  what  an  unfortunate  dilemma  you  have 
reduced  yourself  by  a  weak  inconsistent  defence.  The  rage 
of  writing  letters  has  brought  many  a  wiser  minister  than 
your  lordship  to  an  untimely  end. 

You  seem  determined,  my  lord,  to  go  through  the  family 
of  Cleophnb.  Be  it  so.  If  your  pedigree  extended  from  Den- 
bigh to  St.  David's  i  «  oulri  noi  cease  to  pursue  you  from 
father  to  son,  until  I  had  lairiy  extirpated  the  whole  family. 

LUCIUS. 


272  MISCELLANEOUS 


LETTER  XL. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  7  September,  1768. 

As  I  have  not  the  least  intention  to  enter  into  any  dispute 
with  Lucius,  indulge  me  but  this  once,  and  give  me  leave  to 
assure  you,  it  shall  be  the  last  on  the  subject  from  me;  and 
though  this  man  writes  so  ungenteelly,  that  he  scarce  deserves 
an  answer,  yet  I  could  not  help  thinking  this  much  necessary 
in  justice  to  a  nobleman  whom  he  has  most  shamefully  at- 
tacked in  consequence  of  my  letter,  but  whose  character  is 
above  the  reach  of  malice,  and  who  will  be  respected  when 
such  pests  of  society  are  no  more. 

The  account  I  sent  you  relative  to  the  resignation  of  Sir 
Jeffery  Amherst  I  had  heard  publicly  talked  of  at  table,  and 
in  a  coffee-house;  it  was  told  as  no  secret;  but  was  said  to  be 
from  very  good  authority.  I  sent  it  as  a  piece  of  intelligence 
without  either  adding  or  diminishing.  I  made  no  comment 
on  it  as  I  intended  no  offence.  Facts  were  stated  as  they 
were  told,  and  as  no  dates  were  mentioned,  I  gave  none.  I 
left  it  to  the  public  to  form  opinions  as  they  pleased;  to  Sir 
Jeffery  Amherst's  friends  to  contradict  it,  if  they  thought 
proper;  and  it  has  served  as  a  bone  for  curs  of  opposition  to 
snarl  at. 

Though  I  do  not  mean  to  enter  into  any  dispute  with  this 
fellow,  yet  I  cannot  help  making  a  few  observations  on  his 
letter.  That  the  government  of  Virginia  was  given  away  four 
days  before  the  intention  of  administration  was  mentioned  to 
Sir  Jeffery  Amherst,  I  have  good  ground  to  believe  it  is  not 
fact:  and  if  you,  Lucius,  possessed  but  one  grain  of  honesty, 
and  if  you  had  no  other  intention  but  to  communicate  useful 
information  to  the  public,  you  would  have  told  them  so:  that 
it  was  applied  for  even  as  soon  as  it  was  whispered  that  such 
a  measure  was  to  be  adopted,  upon  the  supposition  that  Sir 
Jeffery  Amherst  would  not  chuse  to  reside,  I  can  believe: 
that  it  was  promised  to  Lord  Boutetort  in  case  he  did  not,  I 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  273 

caft  likewise  believe;  and  this  might  have  been  four,  or  even 
fourteen,  days,  for  ought  I  know,  before  it  was  mentioned; 
but  pray  where  is  the  harm  in  all  this?  I  fancy  no  measure 
of  government  is  entered  into  immediately  on  its  being  men- 
tioned; it  requires  some  time  to  digest.  And  when  it  was 
judged  expedient,  in  consequence  of  the  accounts  from  that 
province,  to  send  the  governor-general  to  reside  in  Virginia, 
it  was  mentioned  in  the  tenderest  manner  to  Sir  Jeffery.  No 
affront  was  ever  intended.  Any  recompense  (if  he  did  not 
chuse  to  go)  in  the  power  of  administration,  or  in  the  gift  of 
majesty,  was  offered  to  him.  What  more  could  he  expect? 
He  had  it  in  his  option  to  go  or  not;  and  if  he  did  not  go,  he 
was  promised  an  equivalent,  perhaps  more.  As  soon  as  this 
measure  was  surmised,  was  there  any  harm  in  Lord  Boute- 
tort's  application?  Was  there  any  fault  in  Lord  Hillsbo- 
rough's promising  his  interest  for  his  friend?  But  is  this  an 
absolute  appointment?  No.  All  the  world  knows  applica- 
tions are  made  long  before  vacancies  happen,  and  prefer- 
ments are  promised;  but  every  one,  except  Lucius,  can  make 
a  distinction  between  a  promise  and  absolute  appoint- 
ment. I  dare  say  there  were  applications  from  more  than  on« 
quarter  before  the  late  archbishop  died:  and  probablv  it  was 
promised  before  the  event  happened:  but  if  the  see  had  not 
become  vacant,  the  present  archbishop  might  have  remained 
at  Coventry. 

But  speak  out  malevolence,  speak  envy,  disappointment, 
and  ill-nature.  What  in  the  name  of  goodness  could  be  Sir 
Jeffery  Amherst's  objection  to  Lord  Boutetort?  Was  it  be- 
cause he  is  a  nobleman?  Because  he  has  gone  to  the  chapel 
at  St.  James's,  and  has  carried  the  sword  of  state  before  his 
king?  Because  he  never  has  insulted  majesty,  but  has  always 
behaved  himself  as  a  dutiful  and  loyal  subject,  and  respect- 
fully to  his  sovereign?  Are  these  the  weighty  motives  for 
objecting  to  his  succession?  Or  is  it  still  a  greater  crime  to 
be  poor?  And  do  these  make  it  an  affront,  not  an  injury? 
Forbid  it  heaven!  Forbid  it  Sir  J  eft  cry  Amherst's  better 
genius!  What  would  you  have  had,  Lucius?  Would  you 
have  wished  to  have  had  the  naming  of  Sir  Jeffery's  succes- 

Vol.  II.  2  M 


274  MISCELLANEOUS 

sor!  What  a  pity  you  had  not!  I  declare  you  deserved  it! 
How  could  my  Lord  Hillsborough  dare  to  recommend 
without  your  permission! 

Demands,  you  say,  are  unfit  to  be  used  from  subjects  re- 
questing of  the  crown.  Indeed,  Lucius,  you  are  right;  but 
many  subjects  now-a-days  forget  that  they  are  so!  and  call 
them  by  what  name  you  please,  I  acknowledge  these  articles 
of  accommodation  sent  to  the  Duke  of  Grafton  by  Sir  Jef- 
fery  Amherst,  or  said  to  be  sent,  answer  exactly  to  the  ideas 
I  have  of  demands,  and  pretty  peremptory  ones  too. 

It  is  strange,  Lucius,  that  you  cannot  write  one  line  with- 
out abuse.  Had  you  made  your  remarks  upon  the  Duke  of 
Grafton's  answer  to  the  first  article  without  abusing  his 
grace,  it  would  have  been  genteel;  but  the  scurrilous  language 
you  use,  even  when  your  arguments  are  just,  proves  that 
you  are  equally  acquainted  with  the  gentleman,  and  sense  of 
honour.  I  believe  it  is  well  known  that  no  commander-in- 
chief  ever  made  less  during  a  long  war  than  Sir  Jeffery  Am- 
herst did:  and  I  am  very  sorry  indeed  that  want  of  fortune, 
the  consequence  of  honesty  and  integrity,  should  ever  be  as- 
signed as  a  reason  to  refuse  honours  to  those  who  deserve 
them.  The  honours  of  this  country,  and  its  treasures  to  sup- 
port them,  have  often  been  lavished  on  many  who  deserved 
them  less  than  the  conqueror  of  America.  This  I  think  was 
the  only  exceptionable  answer  from  the  Duke  of  Grafton.  I 
hope  it  is  not  true. 

Whatever  delicate  feelings  you,  Mr.  Lucius,  may  have,  I 
know  not;  but  I  am  of  opinion  that  sinecure  places,  non-resi- 
dent governments,  and  pensions  are  in  fact  the  same,  though 
different  in  names:  nay,  the  worst  of  the  whole  appears  to 
me  to  be  a  non-resident  governor.  The  very  word  implies  a 
necessity  of  doing  something;  in  fact  he  does  nothing:  he 
therefore  is  paid  for  what  he  does  not,  though  it  is  his  duty 
to  do  it.  In  short  he  is  paid  for  a  neglect  of  duty;  but  because 
our  language  has  not  annexed  the  word  pension  to  such  neg- 
lect, it  does  not  grate  his  ears.  And,  after  all,  what  was  Sir 
Jeffery  Amherst  but  a  pensioner  on  the  colony  of  Virginia? 
he  did  nothing  for  it,  and  was  paid.  Our  idea  of  a  pension 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  275 

is  a  reward  granted  for  past  services,  so  was  his — such  as 
you,  Lucius,  such  tools  of  opposition,  such  state  incendia- 
ries, venal  mercenary  wretches,  are  glad  to  receive,  rewards 
of  your  labours  infinitely  less  honourable  than  either  place 
or  pension. 

The  Duke  of  Grafton's  other  answers  were  unexception- 
able. As  to  the  regiments  being  given  away,  I  did  not  know 
it,  therefore  I  am  excusable. 

And  now,  Mr.  Lucius,  I'll  tell  you  a  secret.  Your  suppos- 
ing my  letter  to  come  from  my  Lord  Hillsborough,  in  my 
opinion  did  credit  to  the  performance,  and  honour  to  me; 
but  in  justice  to  him  I  must  declare,  that  I  am  not,  know 
not,  never  saw,  nor  never  spoke  to  the  Earl  of  Hillsborough 
in  my  life — but  just,  as  formerly, 

CLEOPHAS. 


LETTER  XLI. 

TO  THE  EARL  OF  HILLSBOROUGH. 
MyLord,  9  September,  1768. 

It  is  indifferent  to  the  public,  whether  the  letters  signed 
Cleophas  are  written  by  your  lordship,  or  under  your  imme- 
diate direction.  Whoever  commits  this  humble  begging  lan- 
guage to  paper,  we  know  to  a  certainty  the  person  by  whom 
it  is  held.  We  know  the  suppliant  style  your  lordship  has 
condescended  to  adopt  at  routs,  at  tea-tables,  and  in  banker's 
shops.  But  although  you  have  changed  your  tone,  I  am 
bound  in  honour  not  to  give  you  quarter.  You  have  offend- 
ed heinously  against  your  country,  and  public  justice  de- 
mands an  example  for  the  welfare  of  mankind. 

I  foresaw  Cleophas  would  soon  be  disavowed.  It  seems 
the  poor  gentleman  never  saw,  nor  spoke  to  your  lordship 
in  his  life,  but  just  as  formerly.  The  saving  is  a  good  one. 

You  say  your  character  is  above  the  reach  of  malice.  True, 
my  lord,  you  have  fixed  that  reproach  upon  your  character 
to  which  malice  can  add  nothing.  You  say  it  will  be  respect- 
ed when  such  pests  of  socieiy  a^  I  am  are  no  more.  I  agree 
with  you  that  it  is  very  little  respected  at  present,  and  I  be- 


276  MISCELLANEOUS 

lieve  I  may  unluckily  have  been  the  spoil  of  good  company? 
but  I  doubt  whether  my  death,  or  even  your  own,  will  re- 
store you  to  your  good  fame.  Your  peace  of  mind  is  gone 
for  ever. 

After  the  particulars  quoted  by  Cleophas  it  looks  like 
trifling  with  the  public,  to  confess  that  his  accounts  were  col- 
lected in  a  coffee-house,  and  that  he  will  neither  answer  for 
facts  nor  be  directed  by  dates.  These  are  evasions  which  I 
scorn  to  imitate.  My  authority  is  indisputable; — I  have 
stated  facts  with  precision,  and  marked  the  dates  by  which  I 
shall  invr.riably  abide,  yet  Cleophas  (alias  your  lordship,) 
says  he  has  good  ground  to  believe  that  the  government  was 
not  given  away  four  days  before  Sir  J.  A.  was  apprised  of  it; 
—he  believes  indeed  that  it  was  previously  applied  for,  and 
that  Lord  Boutetort  had  a  conditional  promise  of  it.  These, 
it  seems,  are  the  articles  of  his  creed;  but,  as  they  are  not 
points  of  religious  faith,  to  which  there  might  be  some  merit 
in  sacrificing  our  understanding,  I  presume  the  public  is  not 
obliged  to  conform  to  them.  My  questions  were  put  strictly 
to  points  of  fact  and  time,  and  have  not  yet  been  answered. 
Places,  I  doubt  not,  are  often  applied  for  and  promised  be- 
fore they  are  vacant;  but  I  did  not  expect  to  hear  so  indecent 
a  case  supposed  and  urged  by  a  man  in  your  lordship's  sta- 
tion, as  that  the  see  of  Canterbury  was  promised  to  another, 
before  the  death  of  a  late  pious  and  truly  reverend  incum- 
bent. 

You  say  that  government  was  ready  to  make  Sir  J.  A. 
any  recompense:  yet  excepting  a  grant  of  land  in  a  wilder- 
ness, every  one  of  his  requests  were  flatly  denied. 

You  ask  if  there  was  any  harm  in  this,  or  any  fault  in  that. 
—What  is  this  but  crying  peccavi,  in  the  very  language  of 
misery  and  despair?  It  neither  suits  the  spirit,  which  can  do 
wrong  with  firmness,  nor  that  purity  of  innocence,  which  is 
conscious  of  having  done  right.  If  the  necessity  of  sending 
over  a  governor  to  Virginia  had  really  existed,  and  if  your 
lordship  had  thought  proper  to  take  an  early  opportunity  of 
stating  that  necessity  to  Sir  J.  A. — if  you  had  previously 
apprised  him  of  the  design  of  giving  him  a  successor,  and  if, 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  277 

in  conformity  to  such  declarations,  a  man  of  business,  of 
judgment,  or  activity,  had  been  fixed  on,  you  surely  could 
not  have  paid  too  great  an  attention  to  Sir  J.  A.  and 
you  would  have  prevented  every  possible  appearance  of 
an  intention  to  affront  him.  As  to  the  pecuniary  injury, 
I  will  venture  to  say,  there  is  not  a  man  breathing  who 
would  have  been  more  easily  satisfied  in  that  respect  than 
Sir  J.  A. — Compare  this  supposition  with  your  real  pro- 
ceedings towards  him,  and  though  you  cannot  blush,  I  am 
sure  you  will  be  silent. 

Your  questions  in  favour  of  Lord  Boutetort  amount  to 
nothing.  It  is  not  that  he  is  a  bad  man,  or  an  undutiful  sub- 
ject. But  he  is  a  trifling  character  and  ruined  in  his  fortunes. 
Poverty  of  itself  is  certainly  not  a  crime.  Yet  the  prodi- 
gality, which  squanders  a  fair  estate,  is  in  the  first  instance 
dishonourable; — inthe  next  it  leads  to  everyspecies  of  mean- 
ness and  dependance,  and  when  it  aims  at  a  recovery  at  the 
expense  of  better  men,  becomes  highly  criminal.  Will  your 
lordship,  can  you,  with  a  steady  countenance,  affirm  that  it 
was  the  necessities  of  the  state,  and  not  his  own,  which  sent 
him  to  Virginia? 

Your  lordship  may  give  what  name  you  think  proper  to 
the  requests  proposed  by  Sir  J.  A.  He  was  desired  to  spe- 
cify them  to  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  and  the)'  were  refused. 
It  is  true,  he  did  not  confine  himself  to  the  idea  of  a  bare 
equivalent  for  the  pecuniary  value  of  his  government.  A 
generous  mind,  offended  bv  an  insult  equally  signal  and  un- 
provoked, looks  back  to  services  long  neglected,  and  with 
justice  unites  the  claim  arising  from  those  services  to  the 
insult,  which  of  right  demands  a  signal  reparation. 

As  you  seem,  in  the  Duke  of  Grafton's  answer  to  the  first 
article,  to  feel  and  acknowledge  your  weakness,  I  shall  not 
press  you  farther  upon  it. 

The  pensions  given  by  the  crown  have  been  so  scandal- 
ously prostituted,  that  a  man  of  any  nicety  might  well  be 
forgiven,  if  he  wished  not  to  have  the  title  of  pensioner  ad- 
ded to  his  name.  But  I  shall  nor  descend  to  a  dispute  about 
words.  I  speak  to  things.   If,  instead  of  the  government  of 


278  MISCELLANEOUS 

Virginia,  his  late  Majesty,  on  the  surrender  of  Louisburgh, 
had  thought  proper  to  give  Sir  J.  A.  a  pension,  and  if  this 
had  been  the  declared  motive  of  giving  it,  he  might  have 
accepted  it  without  scruple,  and  held  it  with  honour.  In- 
stances of  pensions  so  bestowed  are  not  very  frequent.  Sir 
Edward  Hawke's  is  one.  How  widely  different  is  the  case 
in  question?  I  will  not  pretend  to  do  justice  to  this  good 
man's  delicacy  and  sense  of  honour;  but  I  can  easily  conceive 
how  a  man  of  common  spirit  must  be  affected,  when  a  place 
which  he  possessed  on  the  most  honourable  terms,  is  taken 
from  him,  without  even  the  decency  due  to  a  gentleman;—— 
when  he  sees  it  given  to  a  needy  court  dependant,  and  when 
the  only  reparation  offered  him,  is  to  enroll  him  in  a  list  of 
pensioners,  among  whom  an  honest  man  would  blush  to  see 
his  name.  If  you  had  not  been  in  such  haste  to  correct  the 
blunders  of  Mr.  Pitt's  administration,  I  think  your  insigni- 
ficant friend  might  have  appeared  in  that  list  without  any 
disgrace  to  himself,  and  his  distresses  might  have  done  credit 
to  the  humanity  of  your  lordship's  recommendation. 

You  did  not  know  that  the  15th  regiment  was  given  to 
Colonel  Hotham. — Yet  your  assertion  was  direct.  For  shame, 
my  lord,  have  done  with  these  evasions.  Poor  Pownal*  hangs 
his  head  in  perfect  modesty,  and  even  your  jidus  Achates, 
your  unfortunate  Barrington  disowns  you. 

I  shall  conclude  with  hinting  to  you  (in  a  way  which  you 
alone  will  understand)  that  there  is  a  part  of  my  behaviour 
to  you,  for  which  you  owe  me  some  acknowledgment.  I 
know  the  ostensible  defence  you  have  given  to  the  public 
differs  widely  from  the  real  one  intrusted  privately  to  your 
friends.  You  are  sensible  that  the  most  distant  insinuation 
of  what  that  defence  is  would  ruin  you  at  once.  But  I  am  a 
man  of  honour,  and  will  neither  take  advantage  of  your  im- 
prudence, nor  of  the  difficulty  of  your  situation. 

LUCIUS. 

*  Secretary  to  the  board  of  trade.  Edit. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  279 


LETTER  XLIL 

Plerisque  moris  est,  firolato  rerum  ordine,  in  aliquem  latum  atque 
filausibilem  locum  quatn  maxime  fiossint  favor  abiliter  excur- 
rere.  quintilian. 

TO  THE  EARL  OF  HILLSBOROUGH. 
My  Lord,  10  September,  1766. 

Your  change  of  title  makes  no  alteration  in  the  merits  of 
your  cause.  You  argued  as  well,  and  were  full  as  honest  a 
man,  under  the  character  of  Cleophas  as  you  are  under  that 
of  Scrutator.  The  task  of  pursuing  falsehood  through  a  la- 
byrinth of  nonsense  is,  I  confess,  much  heavier  than  I  ex- 
pected. You  have  a  way  with  you,  my  lord,  which  blunts 
the  edge  of  attention,  and  sets  all  argument  at  defiance.  But 
I  hold  myself  engaged  to  the  public,  whose  cause  is  united 
with  that  of  Sir  JefFery  Amherst.  The  people  of  this  country 
feel  as  they  ought  to  do  your  treatment  of  a  man  who  has 
served  them  well;  and  the  time  may  come,  my  lord,  when 
you  in  your  turn  may  feel  the  effects  of  their  resentment. 

You  set  out  with  asserting,  that  the  crown  has  an  indis- 
putable power  of  dismissing  its  officers  without  assigning  a 
cause. — Not  quite  indisputable,  my  lord; — for  I  have  heard 
of  addresses  from  parliament,  to  know  who  advised  the  dis- 
mission of  particular  officers.  I  have  heard  of  impeachments 
attending  a  wanton  exertion  of  the  prerogative,  and  you  per- 
haps may  live  to  hear  of  them  likewise. 

Another  assertion  of  the  same  sort  has  been  thrown  out 
by  your  emissaries,  and  is  now  gravely  maintained  by  your 
lordship, — viz.  that  the  promise  conveyed  to  Sir  J.  A.  by 
Mr.  Pitt  was  in  itself  an  absurdity,  and  that  no  succeeding 
minister  is  bound  to  make  good  an  engagement  entered  into 
by  his  predecessor  in  office*.  I  shall  leave  my  lord  privy 

*  The  reference  is  to  the  letter  signed  Scrutator,  in  which  the  writer 
observes  as  follows  in  respect  to  the  subject  in  question: — "An  absurd 
promise  is  asserted  to  have  been  made  to  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst  at  the  time 
of  his  appointment  to  the  government  of  Virginia,  that  his  attendance  on 
hi#  government  should  never  he  required;  and  a  torrent  of  obloquy  has  been 

poured 


280  MISCELLANEOUS 

seal  to  explain  to  you  the  motives  on  which  Mr.  Pitt  acted*. 
The  promise  arose  from  his  own  motion,  and,  if  he  has  not 
spirit  enough  to  maintain  it,  he  deserves  the  contempt  with 
which  you  treat  him.  In  the  mean  time,  I  shall  presume  that 
a  lieutenant-governor  was  then  thought  as  efficient  an  officer 
as  a  governor,  and  that  this  post  was  bestowed  on  Sir  J.  A. 
not  as  the  salary  of  future  duties,  but  as  the  reward  of  ser- 
vices already  performed.  In  the  second  part  of  your  asser- 
tion, you  wilfully  confound  the  general  measures  of  govern- 
ment with  the  particular  promise  of  a  king  made  to  an  indi- 
vidual. Even  ministers,  my  lord,  might,  without  any  injury 
to  their  characters,  preserve  the  faith  and  integrity  of  their 
office.  But  whatever  latitude  they  may  claim  for  themselves, 
the  honour  of  a  king  ought  to  be  sacred,  even  to  his  succes- 
sor. The  proposition  that  ministers  are  not  bound  by  the 
engagements  of  their  predecessors,  if  taken  generally,  is 
false.  There  is  no  breach  of  public  faith,  which  may  not  be 
justified  on  such  a  principle.  Treaties  at  this  rate  may  be 
violated  without  national  dishonour,  and  the  most  solemn 
assertions  from  the  throne,  contradicted  without  reserve. 
You  forget  that  you  are  mixing  the  permanent  dignity  of  the 
crown,  with  the  fluctuating  interests  and  views  of  its  ser- 
vants. Yet  I  shall  now  allow  you  more,  my  lord,  than  I  be- 
lieve you  expect.  I  shall  admit,  without  hesitation,  that  the 
promise  made  to  Sir  J.  A.  could  not  be  so  absolute,  as  not 
to  be  revokable  in  a  case  of  urgent  necessity.  If  such  a  case 
had  been  stated,  and  demonstrated  to  Sir  J.  A.  he  would  not 
have  staid  to  be  solicited.  He  would  either  have  gone  him- 
self, or  cheerfully  resigned  his  government  to  his  Majesty's 
disposal.  The  question  turns  then  upon  the  degree  of  that 
necessity.  Make  it  evident  to  the  public,  and  I  shall  then 

poured  upon  Lord  Hillsborough  for  not  keeping  a  promise,  which  it  is  not 
even  insinuated  that  his  lordship  ever  made.  I  can  scarce  think  that  any 
man  could  have  been  so  infatuated  as,  at  any  time,  to  make  such  a  pre- 
posterous promise,— a  promise  in  itself  void  by  a  settled  maxim  of  law,  as 
repugnant  to  the  grant. — But  if  any  man  could  be  so  infantinely  weak,  it  \» 
his  business  alone  to  answer  for  the  breach."  Edit. 

•  Mr.  Pitt  was  at  this  time  lord  privy  seal  with  the  title  of  Lord  Chat- 
ham.  Edit. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  281 

only  complain  that  you  have  done  a  right  thing  in  a  manner 
the  most  indecent  and  absurd.  You  will  remember,  my  lord, 
how  much  the  issue  of  this  question  depends  upon  Lord 
Boutetort's  character,  for  the  public  will  not  easily  be  per- 
suaded, that  a  conjuncture  which  did  not  rise  above  the  level 
of  Lord  Boutetort's  abilities,  could  be  difficult,  urgent,  or 
important*. 

You  say  the  facts  on  which  you  reason  are  universally  ad- 
mitted.— A  gratis  dictum  which  I  flatly  deny.  If,  instead  of 
wandering  into  wild  declamation,  you  had  found  it  conve- 
nient to  answer  my  questions  strictly,  we  should  have  joined 
issue  upon  our  facts,  and  the  point  would  long  since  have 
been  determined.  Permit  me  to  refresh  your  memory  with 
some  of  them  once  more. 

1.  Was  not  Lord  Boutetort  absolutely  appointed  on  the 
31st  of  July? 

2.  Was  it  mentioned  in  any  shape  to  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst 
before  the  4th  of  August? 

3.  Was  it  not  then  mentioned  as  a  measure  in  contempla- 
tion only? 

4.  Did  not  Lord  Boutetort  kiss  hands  next  morning,  that 
is  Friday  the  5th  instant? 

*  Scrutator  concludes  his  letter  in  the  following-  words: — 
"Our  vigilant  minister  is  vehemently  exclaimed  against,  because  he 
shewed  himself  prepared  on  the  instant,  to  supply  the  vacant  place  of  the 
recreant  knight.  According  to  the  ideas  of  the  politicians  of  the  ton  ton, 
who  always  substitute  personal  to  national  considerations,  there  ought  to 
have  been  a  decent  interval  allowed  either  for  the  gentleman  to  repent, 
or  for  us,  like  fashionable  widows,  to  mourn,  before  a  successor  were  ap- 
pointed in  his  room — though  in  that  interval  the  colony  should  be  lost. — I 
honour  Lord  Hillsborough  for  having  his  man  ready,  ready  not  only  for  his 
place,  but  for  the  province;  ready  not  only  to  kiss  hands,  but  to  take  his 
passage.  And  from  the  watchful  activity  his  lordship  has  exerted  in  every 
known  instance  in  his  arduous  employment,  I  have  not  the  least  doubt  but 
that  if  Lord  Boutetort  had  either  refused  to  go,  or  on  any  pretext  delayed 
his  departure,  Lord  Hillsborough  had  still  some  third  man  in  his  eye,  who 
would  have  made  ample  amends  for  the  deficiencies  of  both. 

"  I  wish  this  may  prove  a  lesson  to  all  future  ministers  of  state  to  keep 
a  tight  rein  upon  all  officers  in  their  departments,  lest  anyone  should  cry 
out  and  affect  to  be  surprized,  when  suddenly  called  upon  to  do  his  duty, 
as  he  prizes  his  salary."    Edit. 

Vol.  II.  2  N 


282  MISCELLANEOUS 

5.  Did  not  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst's  opinion  in  council  de- 
feat an  American  scheme  formed  by  you  and  Lord  Barring- 
ton,  and  is  not  this  the  true  cause  of  your  rancour  against 
him? 

It  is  unworthy  of  the  character  of  a  gentleman  to  endea* 
vour  to  amuse  the  public  with  idle  declamations,  while  such 
questions  as  these  remain  unanswered. 

LUCIUS*. 

*  There  were  several  replies  to  this  letter.  One  by  an  Independent  Coun- 
try Gentleman  just  arrived  in  town,  and  dated  from  the  Bell  Inn;  and  ano- 
ther, signed  Chrononhotonthologos,  seem  to  have  obtained  some  attention 
from  the  public,  and  the  latter  especially,  in  consequence  of  the  writer's 
having1  discovered  that  Lucius  had  made  a  mistake,  not  in  the  facts  of  the 
transaction  but  in  one  of  the  dates,  by  asserting-  that  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst 
came  to  town  on  Thursday,  August  4th,  instead  of  one  week  earlier, 
Thursday,  July  28.  Both  these  letters  were  replied  to  with  much  spirit  by 
the  following-,  signed  Corrector. 

TO  THE  PRINTER    OF  THE  PUBLIC  ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  14  September,  1768. 

I  am  not  surprised  to  find  the  tools  ofpo-oer  alarmed  at  the  seiisible,  point- 
ed, and  masterly  letters  of  your  correspondent  Lucius;  but  the  little  arts 
thev  have  as  yet  used  to  baffle  his  arguments  have  only  served  to  expose 
their  own  weakness.  I  liope  the  gentleman  at  the  Bell  Inn  took  the  oppor- 
tunity of  a  dry  day  to  get  to  town  for  further  information;  for  in  good  truth, 
if  he  is  still  storm-staid  by  the  rainy  -weather,  he  had  much  better  smoke  a 
pipe  with  Boniface  his  landlord,  than  trouble  the  public  with  nods,  for 
such  I  call  his  answers  to  the  queries  of  Lucius. 

My  troubling  you  at  present  is  not  to  answer  such  a  driveller,-  but  on. 
reading  this  morning  the  letter  in  your  paper,  signed  with  the  long  name, 
I  found  that,  at  last,  Mr.  Lucius  was  catched.  Your  correspondent  however 
deals  very  tenderly  with  him,  being  sensible,  I  suppose,  of  the  ticklishness 
of  the  ground.  As  an  admirer  of  the  spirit  of  Lucius,  and  being  thoroughly 
acquainted  with  the  times  and  circumstances  in  dispute,  allow  me  to  give 
the  true  edition,  by  which  it  will  appear  that  Jlr.  Chrononhotonthologos  does 
not  mend  the  matter  by  his  wonderful  discovery. 

Lucius  begins  on  Thursday,  the  4th  of  August,  whereas  in  truth  it  was 
on  Thursday,  the  28th  of  July,  that  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst  came  to  tow  , 
and  finding  that  Lord  Hillsborough  had  been  at  his  house,  he  immediate- 
ly waited  on  his  lordship,  when  he  had  the  first  intimation  of  his  affair, 
Lord  Hillsborough's  letter  having  been  sent  to  Sir  Jeffery's  house  in  the 
country.  The  very  next  day,  viz.  Friday,  the  29th,  Lord  Boutetort  kissed 
hands  on  his  appointment  to  that  government,  which  the  day  before  had 
b;en  offered  to  Sir  Jeffery;  and  on  the  30th  Sir  Jeffery  sent  the  requests 

in 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  283 


LETTER  XLIII. 

TO  THE  EARL  OF  HILLSBOROUGH. 
My  Lord,  15  September,  1768. 

There  is  no  surer  sign  of  a  weak  head  than  a  settled  de- 
pravity of  heart.  A  base  action  is  a  disorder  of  the  mind, 
and  next  to  the  folly  of  doing  it,  is  the  folly  which  defends 
it.  Had  the  letter  signed  Lucius  never  been  answered,  you 
would  not  have  so  shamefully  betrayed  the  weakness  of  your 
cause,  and  your  silence  might  have  been  interpreted  into  a 
consciousness  of  innocence.  The  question  is  now  exhausted, 
for  the  public  is  convinced.  How  well  or  ill  we  have  argued 
is  of  infinitely  less  importance  than  the  integrity  of  facts. 
Yet  even  facts,  though  separately  true,  will  prove  nothing,  if 
the  order  in  which  they  happened  be  confounded.  Take  it 
finally,  my  lord,  and  disprove  it  if  you  can.  Lord  Boutetort's 
appointment  was  fixed  on  or  before  Sunday.  You  called  afc 
Sir  Jeffery  Amherst's  on  the  Wednesday  following.  He  was 
not  in  town,  but  you  saw  him  next  day  (Thursday).  You 
then  told  him  that  such  a  measure  was  in  contemplation;  but 
far  from  naming  his  successor,  you  did  not  tell  him  that  his. 
successor  was  appointed.  Yet  Lord  Boutetort  kissed  hands 
the  next  morning  (Friday),  and  the  first  notice  Sir  Jeffery 
Amherst  received  of  his  lordship's  appointment  was  by  an 
express  sent  to  him  that  evening  by  his  brother. 

in  writing  to  the  Duke  of  Grafton  which  have  been  by  the  ministerial 
hirelings  termed  demands,  and  which  have  not  been  fairly  represented. 
Sir  Jeffery  did  not  fix  on  the  coal  mines  as  the  only  grant,  but  left  it  to  ad- 
mini  sir  ationio  give  that,  or  any  other  which  might  be  more  convenient,  to 
enable  him  to  support  the  dignity  he  requested;  nor  did  he  ask  for  a  sepa- 
rate grant  of  lands  as  has  been  asserted.  That  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst  speaks 
of  Lord  Hillsborough  in  terms  like  a  gentleman  I  can  easily  believe,  as  he 
is  not  capable  of  acting  otherwise  to  a  nobleman  who  has  the  honour  of 
being  one  of  his  Majesty's  servants;  but  that  he  was  pleased  at  the  treat- 
ment be  received  I  absolutely  deny,  as  it  must  be  evident  to  the  world, 
from  what  followed  the  appointment  of  Lord  Boutetort,  that  he  thought 
himself  grossly  affronted.  Corrector. 

Edit. 


284  MISCELLANEOUS 

That  you  are  a  civil,  polite  person  is  true.  Few  men  un- 
derstand the  little  morals  better,  or  observe  the  great  ones 
less,  than  your  lordship.  You  can  bow  and  smile  in  an  honest 
man's  face,  while  you  pick  his  pocket.  These  are  the  virtues 
of  a  court  in  which  your  education  has  not  been  neglected. 
In  any  other  school  you  might  have  learned  that  simplicity 
and  integrity  are  worth  them  all.  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst  was 
fighting  ihe  battles  of  this  country,  while  you,  my  lord,  the 
darling  child  of  prudence  and  urbanity,  were  practising  the 
generous  arts  of  a  courtier,  and  securing  an  honourable 
interest  in  the  antichamber  of  a  favourite. 

As  a  man  of  abilities  for  public  business  your  first  experi- 
riment  has  been  unfortunate.  Your  circular  letter  to  the 
American  governors,  both  for  matter  and  composition,  is  a 
performance  which  a  school-boy  ought  to  blush  for.  The 
importance  and  difficulty  of  the  occasion  gave  you  a  fair  op* 
portunity  of  shewing  by  what  talents  you  were  qualified  for 
the  station  of  a  minister.  The  assembly  of  Massachusetts' 
Bay,  not  contented  with  their  own  efforts  to  throw  off  their 
allegiance,  solicit  the  other  colonies  to  unite  with  them  in 
measures  of  the  same  tendency  and  spirit.  A  resolution  of 
this  extraordinary  nature  demanded  the  whole  attention  of 
government,  and  yours  in  particular.  Let  us  see  how  you 
have  treated  it.  Instead  of  a  clear  precise  instruction  to  each 
governor; — instead  of  separate  instructions  adapted  to  the 
iemper,  circumstances,  and  interests  of  the  several  provinces, 
wherein  you  might  have  shewn  your  political  abilities  as  well 
as  your  knowledge  of  that  country;  what  have  you  done?  In 
a  circular  letter  of  twenty  or  thirty  lines  (conceived  in  the 
same  terms  to  all  the  governors)  you  tell  them, 

"  That  this  measure  is  of  a  dangerous  and  factious  ten- 
dency." A  most  wonderful  discovery. 

"  That  it  is  calculated  to  inflame  die  minds  of  his  Majes- 
ty's subjects."  What  else  do  you  think  was  meant  by  it? 

"  An  unwarrantable  combination."  Thai's  the  question 
with  THEM,  and  why  did  you  not  prove  it  so? 

"  That  it  excites  an  opposition  to  parliament."  What  other 
design  in  the  name  of  folly  could  be  proposed bif  it? 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  285 

"  That  it  subverts  the  true  principles  of  the  constitution." 
Which  they  utterly  deny. 

What  are  these  but  the  loose  hackneyed  terms  of  office, 
which  make  no  impression  because  they  convey  no  argu- 
ment, and  hardly  a  determinate  meaning.  You  have  not 
suggested  a  single  motive  to  any  one  of  the  colonies,  why 
they  should  not  unite  with  the  assembly  of  Boston.  This 
task  you  leave  to  the  governors,  and  if  they  find  it  an  easy 
one,  so  much  the  better.  Your  conclusion  however  is  a  mas- 
ter-piece. You  desire  the  governors  to  prevail  with  their 
assemblies  to  take  no  notice  of  the  requisition  from  Boston, 
zvhich  will  be  treating  it  with  the  contempt  it  deserves.  What, 
my  lord,  do  you  seriously  think,  that  a  formal  attempt  to 
unite  the  whole  continent  of  America  in  rebellion  against 
this  country  deserves  nothing  but  the  silent  indifference  of 
contempt?  Is  this  the  language  of  business  or  attention? 
Your  letter,  my  lord,  does  indeed  deserve  contempt,  but  the 
enterprizes  of  the  colonies  are  of  other  importance.  They 
call  for  other  measures  and  other  ministers,  and  be  assured 
that,  when  parliament  meets,  unless  you  intend  to  govern 
without  one,  neither  you  nor  your  companions  will  be  per- 
mitted to  ruin  this  country  with  impunity. 

LUCIUS. 

P.  S.  A  friend  of  mine  has  taken  the  pains  to  collect  a  num- 
ber of  the  epithets  with  which  Lord  Hillsborough  has  been 
pleased  to  honour  me  in  the  course  of  our  correspondence.  I 
shall  lay  them  before  the  public  in  one  view,  as  a  specimen 
of  his  lordship's  urbanity  and  singular  condescension. 

1.  Wretched  scribbler. 

2.  Worthless  fellow. 

3.  Vile  incendiary. 

4.  False  liar,  in  opposition  to  a  true  one. 

5.  Snarler. 

6.  Contemptible  thing. 

7.  Abandoned  tool  of  opposition,  and  diabolical  miscreant. 

8.  Impudent  scurrilous  wretch. 

9.  Rascal  and  scoundrel,  passim. 

10.  Barking  cur;  by  way  of  distinction  from 

11.  Barking  animal j  cum  multis  altis. 


286  MISCELLANEOUS 

To  all  which  I  shall  only  say,  that  his  lordship's  argu- 
ments are  upon  a  level  with  his  politeness. 

P.  S.  I  acknowledge  a  mistake  the  moment  I  perceive  it. 
I  have  advanced  the  transaction  between  Lord  Hillsborough 
and  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst  too  forward  by  one  complete  week. 
But  the  days  of  the  week,  the  facts,  and  the  order  in  which 
they  succeeded  one  another,  are  the  same.  You  see  plainly 
that  my  arguments  are  not  affected  by  this  mistake.  If  they 
had,  I  should  have  acknowledged  it  without  hesitation. 


LETTER  XLIV. 

TO  THE  EARL  OF  HILLSBOROUGH. 
My  Lord,  20  September,  1768. 

Permit  me  to  have  the  honour  of  introducing  you  to  a 
very  amiable  and  valuable  acquaintance.  Mr.  Ford  is  the 
gentleman  I  mean.  Your  lordship  will  forgive  the  timidity 
and  bashfulness  of  his  first  address,  and,  considering  your 
quality,  condescend  to  make  him  some  advances.  There  is 
a  similarity  in  your  circumstances,  to  say  nothing  of  your 
virtues  and  understanding,  which  may  lay  the  foundation  of 
a  solid  friendship  between  you  for  the  rest  of  your  lives. 
Undoubtedly  you  are  not  quite  unacquainted  with  a  charac- 
ter, on  which  you  appear  to  have  formed  your  own.  His  case 
was  singular,  my  lord,  and  cannot  fail  of  exciting  some  emo- 
tions of  sympathy  in  your  lordship's  breast.  This  worthy 
man  found  himself  exposed  to  a  most  malicious  prosecution 
for  perjury.  A  profligate  jury  found  him  guilty,  and  a  cruel 
judge  pronounced  his  sentence  of  imprisonment,  pillory,  and 
transportation.  His  mind  was  a  good  deal  distressed  in  the 
course  of  this  affair  (for  he  too  is  a  man  of  delicate  feelings), 
but  his  character,  like  yours,  was  above  the  reach  of  malice. 
Not  to  keep  your  lordship  any  longer  in  pain,  I  have  the 
pleasure  of  telling  you  that,  when  law  and  justice  had  done 
their  worst,  a  lady,  in  whom  he  seldom  places  any  confidence 
at  cards,  was  generous  enough  to  stand  his  friend.  Fortune 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  287 

discovered  a  flaw  in  the  indictment;  and  now,  my  lord,  in. 
spite  of  an  iniquitous  prosecution,  in  spite  of  conviction  and 
sentence,  he  stands  as  fair  in  his  reputation  as  ever  he  did. 
Your  lordship  will  naturally  be  struck  with  the  resemblance 
between  your  case  and  his.  Facts  were  so  particularly  stated 
against  you  that  they  could  not  be  denied; — the  order  in 
which  they  happened  was  demonstrated,  and  sentence  was 
pronounced  by  the  public.  The  affair  was  over,  when  up  gets 
Tommy  Ford,  and  discovers  that  the  whole  transaction  pass- 
ed in  the  last  week  of  July  instead  of  the  first  in  August. 
This  mistake,  as  it  brought  the  object  nearer  to  us,  I  called 
advancing.  In  your  lordship's  country  I  presume  it  may 
properly  be  called  a  retreat.  Here,  however,  the  comparison 
ends.  Your  friend  escaped  by  a  form  of  law.  But  you,  my 
lord,  have  been  tried  at  a  tribunal  of  honour  and  equity.  The 
public,  who  are  your  judges,  will  not  suffer  my  mistake 
(however  it  may  prove  the  badness  of  my  heart  to  acknow- 
ledge it)  to  quash  the  indictment  against  you.  You  are  con- 
victed of  having  done  a  base  and  foolish  action,  in  a  manner 
the  most  despicable  and  absurd.  Your  punishment  attends 
you  in  the  contempt  and  detestation  of  mankind. 

Your  lordship  has  been  pleased  to  publish  a  long  letter  in 
the  Gazetteer,  to  prove  that  all  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst's  mili- 
tary services  are  a  mere  fiction.  You  did  not  sign  it  indeed, 
because  you  had  lately  signed  another,  containing  the  most 
express  and  authentic  acknowledgment  of  those  services,  in  a 
style  of  applause,  not  very  distant  from  flattery.  You  will  not 
now  it  seems  allow  him  any  share  in  the  reduction  of  Louis- 
bourg,  or  the  conquest  of  Canada.  Perhaps  after  all  he  never 
was  in  America.  I  am  not  a  soldier,  my  lord,  nor  will  I  pre- 
tend to  determine,  what  share  of  honour  a  general  is  entitled 
to  for  success,  who  must  have  borne  the  whole  blame  and 
disgrace,  if  he  had  failed.  Had  the  event  been  unfavourable, 
his  officers,  I  dare  say,  would  have  been  willing  enough  to 
yield  their  concern  in  it  to  their  commander  in  chief.  As  to 
the  rest,  I  have  heard  from  military  men,  that  the  judgment 
and  capacity,  which  make  resistance  useless  or  impractica- 
ble, are  rated  much  higher  than  even  the  resolution  which 
overcomes  it.  When  you,  my  lord,  and  Mr.  Ford  are  for- 


288  MISCELLANEOUS 

gotten,  this  country  will  remember  with  gratitude,  that  Sir 
Jeffery  Amherst  had  the  honour  of  making  sixteen  French 
battalions  prisoners  of  war — that  he  carried  on  the  whole 
war  in  America  at  an  expense  less  than  the  fortunes,  which 
some  individuals  had  acquired  by  contracts  and  management 
in  Germany; — and  that  he  did  not  put  the  savings  into  his 
own  pocket. 

If  a  British  peerage  be  too  high  a  reward  for  these  ser- 
vices, at  least  do  him  justice.  Do  not  assure  the  public  that 
he  was  not  contented  with  a  revenue  of  four  thousand 
pounds  a  year,  when  you  know  that  the  income  of  his  go- 
vernment and  two  regiments,  did  not  exceed  two  thousand 
three  hundred,  and  that,  until  he  was  positively  outraged, 
he  never  complained.  As  I  profess  dealing  in  facts,  take  the 
account. 

Government  of  Virginia  1500 

Fifteenth  regiment  600 

Commandant  of  the  60th  200 


2300 
As  to  a  peerage,  you  would  have  done  well  to  consider 
upon  what  sort  of  people  this  honour  has  been  conferred  for 
ten  years  past.  Among  the  rest,  we  should  be  glad  to  know 
what  were  your  lordship's  services  or  merits,  when  you 
were  created  Baron  of  Harwich.  I  take  for  granted  that 
they  were  of  a  different  complexion  from  those  of  Sir  J.  A. 
since  they  have  been  so  differently  rewarded. 

Here  I  shall  conclude.  You  have  sent  Sir  Jeffery  Am- 
herst to  the  plough.  You  have  left  him  poor  in  every  article 
of  which  a  false  fawning  minister  could  deprive  him; — but 
you  have  left  him  rich  in  the  esteem,  the  love  and  venera- 
tion of  his  country.  You  cannot  now  recal  him  by  any  offer  of 
wealth  or  honours.  Yet  I  foretel  that  a  time  will  come,  when 
you  yourself  will  be  the  cause  of  his  return.  Proceed,  my 
lord,  as  you  have  begun,  and  you  will  soon  reduce  this 
country  to  an  extremity,  in  which  the  wisest  and  best  sub- 
jects must  be  called  upon,  and  must  be  employed.  Till  then 
cnjov  your  triumph. 

LUCIUS. 


BETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.         289 


LETTER  XLV. 

JO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  6  October,  1768, 

Since  my  last  letter  was  printed*,  a  question  has  been 
stated  in  the  newspapers,  which  I  think  it  incumbent  upon 
me,  as  an  honest  man,  to  answer.  Admitting  my  represen- 
tation of  the  melancholy  state  of  this  country,  and  of  public 
credit  to  be  strictlv  true,  "  what  good  purpose  can  it  answer 
to  discover  such  truths,  and  to  lay  our  weakness  open  to  the 
world?"  One  would  think  such  a  question  hardly  wanted  a 
reply.  If  a  real  misfortune  were  lessened  by  concealment;— 
if,  by  Cutting  our  eyes  to  our  weakness,  we  could  give  our 
enemies«n  opinion  of  our  strength,  none  but  a  traitor  would 
withdraw  the  veil,  which  covered  the  nakedness  of  his  coun- 
try. But  if  the  contrary  be  true;  if  concealment  serves  only 
to  nourish  and  increase  the  mischief,  the  conclusion  is  direct. 
A  good  subject  will  endeavour  to  rouse  the  attention  of  his 
country; — he  will  give  the  alarm,  and  point  out  the  danger, 
against  which  she  ought  to  provide.  The  policy  of  conceal- 
ment is  no  better  than  the  wisdom  of  a  prodigal,  who  wastes 
his  estate  without  reflection,  and  has  not  courage  enough  to 
examine  his  accounts. 

In  my  last  letter,  I  foretold  the  great  fall  of  the  stocks, 
which  has  since  happened,  and  I  now  do  not  scruple  to  fore- 
tel  that  they  must  and  will  fall  much  lower.  Yet  I  am  not 
moved  by  the  arts  of  stock-jobbers,  or  by  temporary  ru- 
mours, magnified,  if  not  created,  for  particular  purposes  in 
the  alley.  These  artifices  are  directed  to  maintain  a  fluctua- 
tion not  a  continued  fall.  The  principles  on  which  my  rea- 
soning is  founded,  are  taken  generally  from  the  state  of 
France  and  of  this  country.  When  I  see  our  natural  enemy 
strong  enough  not  only  to  elude  a  material  article  of  treatyf, 

*  Miscellaneous  Letters,  No.  xxxiii.  p.  250.  Edit. 
\  His  Most  Catholic  Majesty,  being  a  branch  of  the  Bourbon  dynasty— 
in  the  refusal  of  his  ministers  to  discharge  the  Manilla  ransom.  Edit. 

Vol.  II.  2  0 


290  MISCELLANEOUS 

but  to  set  us  at  defiance  while  they  conquer  a  kingdom*, 
and  when  I  combine  this  appearance  of  strength  with  their 
natural  restlessness,  I  cannot  doubt  of  their  taking  the  first 
opportunity  to  recover  their  lost  honour,  by  a  fresh  declara- 
tion of  war.  On  the  other  hand,  considering  the  hostile  tem- 
per of  the  colonies  towards  us,  the  oppressive  weight  of  a 
monstrous  debt  (to  which  a  peace  of  six  years  has  scarce 
given  a  sensible  relief)  and,  above  all,  the  misery,  weakness, 
and  distraction  of  our  interior  government,  I  cannot  have  a 
doubt  that  our  enemies  now  have,  or  in  a  very  little  time  will 
have,  the  fairest  opportunity  they  can  wish  for  to  force  us 
into  a  war.  The  conclusion,  to  be  drawn  from  these  premi- 
ses, is  obvious.  It  amounts  to  a  moral  certainty,  and  leaves 
no  room  for  hope  or  apprehension. 

To  these,  which  are  the  most  important  circunustances  of 
our  situation,  may  well  be  added  the  high  price  of  labour, 
the  decay  of  trade,  and  the  ruinous  system  on  which  it  is 
conducted.  Every  minuter  article  conspires  against  us.  The 
deficiency  of  the  civil  list  must  be  paid,  and  cannot  be  paid 
with  less  than  seven  hundred  thousand  pounds.  The  India 
company  will  yield  to  no  terms,  which  are  not  founded  on 
an  express  acknowledgment  of  their  exclusive  property  in 
their  conquests  in  Asia.  How  far  their  pretensions  are  just 
is  at  least  a  doubtful  question.  Whether  parliament  will  di- 
vest them  of  this  property,  by  a  mere  declaratory  law,  is  a 
matter  of  the  most  important  consideration.  It  would  be  a 
dreadful  precedent,  because  it  would  shake  every  security 
of  private  property.  Yet,  even  if  that  were  determined,  ano- 
ther question  remains  full  of  difficulty  and  danger; — that  i6, 
in  what  manner  the  public  will  avail  themselves  of  this  great 
right,  decided  by  nothing  but  a  vote  of  parliament. 

Sir,  I  am  not  affected  by  the  rumours  of  the  day.  If  the 
stocks  rise  or  fall  upon  a  report  of  tranquillity  or  tumult  at 
Bostonf,  I  am  satisfied  that  it  is  owing  to  the  arts  and  ma- 
nagement of  stock-jobbers.  But  I  see  the  spirit  which  has 
gone  abroad  through  the  colonies,  and  I  know  what  conse- 

*  Corsica.  Edit. 

\  See  note  to  Vol.  I.  p.  243.  Edit. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  291 

quences  that  spirit  ?mtst  and  will  produce.  If  it  be  deter- 
mined to  enforce  the  authority  of  the  legislature,  the  event 
will  be  uncertain:  but  if  we  yield  to  the  pretensions  of  Ame- 
rica, there  is  no  farther  doubt  about  the  matter.  From  that 
moment  they  become  an  independent  people,  they  open  their 
trade  with  the  rest  of  the  world,  and  England  is  undone. 

In  these  circumstances,  calamitous  as  they  are,  I  yet  think 
the  uniform  direction  of  a  great  and  able  minister  might  do 
much.  His  earliest  care,  I  am  persuaded,  would  be  to  pro- 
vide a  fund  to  support  the  first  alarm  and  expense  of  a  rup- 
ture with  France.  If  prepared  to  meet  a  war,  he  might  per- 
haps avoid  it.  His  next  object  would  be  to  form  a  plan  of 
agreement  with  the  colonies.  He  would  consent  to  yield 
some  ground  to  the  Americans,  if  it  were  possible  to  receive 
a  security  from  them,  that  they  never  would  advance  beyond 
the  line  then  drawn,  upon  conditions  mutually  agreed  on. 
By  an  equitable  offer  of  this  kind,  he  would  certainly  unite 
this  country  in  the  support  of  his  measures,  and  I  am  per- 
suaded he  would  have  the  reasonable  part  of  the  Americans 
on  his  side. 

These,  Sir,  unfortunately  for  us,  are  views  too  high  and 
important  even  to  be  thought  of,  while  we  are  governed  as 
we  are.  I  would  not  descend  to  a  reproachful  word  against 
men,  whose  persons  I  hardly  know:  but  it  is  impossible  for 
an  honest  man  to  behold  the  circumstances,  to  which  a  weak 
distracted  administration  has  reduced  us,  without  feeling 
one  pang  at  least  for  the  approaching  ruin  of  Great  Britain. 

ATTICUS. 


LETTER  XLVI. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE   TUBLIC  ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  12  October,  1768. 

I  believe  one  may  challenge  any  time  or  country  to  pro- 
duce more  noble  instances  of  a  free  and  manly  spirit,  than 
have  appeared  in  several  of  your  late  correspondents.  With- 
out direction,  without  information,  without  promise  or  hope 
of  reward,  without  personal  friendship,  favour,  or  acquaint- 


292  MISCELLANEOUS 

ance,  several  heroes  of  the  pen  have  boldly  stood  forth  and 
generously  dared  to  defend  a  great  minister  of  state,  although 
in  the  plenitude  of  his  power,  and  invested  with  the  patron- 
age to  an  infinite  number  of  lucrative  offices.  This,  I  say,  is 
true  virtue;  and  this  virtue  your  correspondents,  with  vari- 
ous hard  names,  have  solemnly  assured  us  they  possess. 

They  have  demonstrated,  to  the  satisfaction  of  the  public, 
against  the  calumnies  of  a  dull  writer,  called  Lucius,  that 
every  part  of  the  late  conduct  of  Lord  Hillsborough  with 
regard  to  Sir  J.  Amherst  is  just  what  it  ought  to  have  been; 
nothing  ill-intentioned,  nothing  either  deficient  or  redun- 
dant; and  that  it  may  well  serve  for  a  pattern  upon  all  similar 
occasions. 

However,  it  sometimes  happens  a  little  perversely,  that 
the  very  best  actions  have  every  now  and  then  consequences 
that  are  somewhat  odd — I  do  not  say  absolutely  bad;  but 
only  a  little  untoward.  Thus  though  Lord  Hillsborough  has 
done  his  duty  to  a  miracle  in  all  parts  of  this  business,  and 
that  his  character  comes  like  gold  out  of  the  furnace  of  this 
fierce  contest;  yet  so  it  happens,  that  the  event  and  the  sole 
event  of  all  this  upright  intention  and  wise  action  is,  that  the 
nation  has  at  a  critical  time  lost  to  her  service  Sir  J.  Am- 
herst; and  has  gained  to  it  Lord  Boutetort. 

This  is  a  little  crooked  with  regard  to  the  political  effect 
of  the  measure;  but  I  hope  it  is  set  to  rights  by  the  moral 
consequence.  Rewards  and  punishments  are  so  distributed, 
as  to  point  out  for  the  future,  to  all  people  in  the  civil  or 
military  lines,  the  conduct  they  ought  to  pursue  in  such  a 
manner,  that  it  is  impossible  they  should  mistake  their  way. 
For  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst  has  lost  2,300/.  a  year  by  his  folly — 
Lord  Hillsborough  and  Lord  Boutetort  have  each  acquired 
as  much  by  their  wisdom.  I  cannot  forbear  to  congratulate 
the  public  upon  all  these  favourable  appearances. 
I  am,  Sir, 
Your  humble  servant, 

TEMPORUM  FELICITAS, 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  29.S 


LETTER  XLVII. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF   THE  PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 

Sir,  15  October,  1768. 

Your  correspondent,  who  calls  himself  A  Friend  to  Public 
Credit,  has  given  us  one  of  the  most  extravagant  conceits 
that  ever  entered  into  the  brain  of  a  politician.  He  assures 
us  that  a  rupture  with  France  or  Spain  is  highly  improbable, 
because  the  secretary  of  state*  for  that  department  possesses 
no  share  in  his  master's  confidence,  and  is  in  open  enmity 
with  his  colleagues  in  office.  Supposing  the  argument  to  be 
just,  let  us  see  how  far  it  will  extend.  One  of  his  Majesty's 
ministers  is  hated  and  distrusted;  ergo,  a  war  is  improbable. 
But  if  two  of  them  should  happen  to  be  in  that  unpleasant 
situation,  the  improbability  would  increase,  and  so  we  should 
proceed  to  an  inevitable  conclusion.  If  all  the  ministry  were 
separately  suspected  by  their  master,  and  reciprocally  de- 
tested by  one  another  (which  I  fancy  is  not  far  from  the 
truth),  a  declaration  of  war  would  be  the  last  thing  to  be 
expected.  At  this  rate  the  peace  of  this  country  is  establish- 
ed upon  a  foundation  equally  new  and  secure;  upon  the  dis- 
traction of  the  councils  by  which  we  are  governed.  What  a 
pity  it  is  that  not  one  article  in  this  pretty  syllogism  is  true! 
I  agree  with  your  correspondent,  that  when  a  nation  is  go- 
verned as  we  are,  our  constant  prayer  should  be,  Give  peace 
in  the  time  of  these  ministers,  0  Lord!  But  I  fear  that  the 
same  reasons,  which  ought  to  keep  us  quiet,  will  operate  in 
a  contrary  direction  upon  our  enemies.  I  fear  they  only  wait 
until  the  differences  with  our  colonies  and  the  divisions 
among  ourselves  are  arrived  at  a  crisis,  and  that  then  they 
will  overwhelm  us  with  an  open  war.  In  the  mean  time  the 
House  of  Bourbon  are  labouring  to  unite  their  strength,  and 
to  extend  the  bounds  of  their  dominion.  Their  insatiable 
ambition  will  not  spare  even  the  father  of  their  church,  who 
must  be  entirely  dispossessed  of  his  territories,  unless  the 

•  Lord  Shelborne. 


294  MISCELLANEOUS 

protestant  powers  interpose  in  his  defence.  It  was  and  ought 
for  ever  to  be  our  policy  to  support  this  prince  in  his  tempo- 
ral power,  without  any  regard  to  his  religion.  If  he  were  a 
Turk,  he  ought  to  be  protected  in  the  possession  of  his  do- 
minions against  the  House  of  Bourbon.  Or  are  we  to  sink 
into  a  lethargic  stupidity,  while  the  French  conquer  Corsica 
and  overrun  Italy,  and  sit  with  our  arms  across,  until  they 
thunder  at  our  gate?  There  is  certainly  some  dreadful  infa- 
tuation, which  hangs  over  and  directs  the  councils  of  this 
country.  Our  ministers  drive  us  headlong  to  destruction, 
while  their  emissaries  insult  us  with  assurances  that  the  di- 
visions among  the  king's  servants  form  the  best  security  of 
peace  with  our  enemies.  God  knows,  Sir,  it  is  time  to  rouse 
and  shake  off  this  lethargy.  It  is  time  for  parliament  to  inter- 
pose, if  yet  there  be  a  hope  of  saving  Great  Britain.  Our  last 
constitutional  resource  is  vested  in  parliament.  By  whose 
advice  or  neglect  the  French  were  suffered  to  land  in  Cor- 
sica should  be  one  of  the  first  objects  of  their  enquiry,  and 
whether  French  money  has  been  given  or  received  here. 
Every  measure  of  government  opens  an  ample  field  for  a 
parliamentary  inquisition.  If  this  resource  should  fail  us, 
our  next  and  latest  appeal  must  be  made  to  heaven. 

BRUTUS. 


LETTER  XLVIII. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 

Sir,  19  October,  1768. 

We  are  assured  by  the  advocates  of  the  ministry,  that 
while  Lord  Shelburne  is  secretary  of  state,  we  can  have  no 
reason  to  apprehend  a  rupture  with  France  or  Spain.  This 
proposition  is  singular  enough,  and  I  believe  turns  upon  a 
refinement  very  distant  from  the  simplicity  of  common 
sense.  But,  admitting  it  to  be  self-evident,  the  conclusion  is 
such  as  I  apprehend  y°ur  correspondent,  who  signs  himself 
A  friend  to  public  credit,  did  not  clearly  foresee.  If  Lord 
Shelburne's  remaining  in  office  constitutes  a  security  of 
peace,  his  being  suddenly  removed  must  amount  to  a  de- 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  295 

claration  of  war.  Now,  Sir,  the  fact  is,  that  his  lordship's 
removal  has  been  for  some  weeks  in  agitation,  and  is  within 
these  few  days  absolutely  determined*.  If  I  were  a  party- 
writer,  the  indiscretion  of  the  ministerial  advocates  would 
give  me  as  many  advantages  as  even  the  wretched  conduct 
of  the  ministry  themselves.  But  I  write  for  the  public,  and 
in  that  view  hold  myself  far  above  a  little  triumph  over 
men,  whose  compositions  are  as  weak  as  the  cause  they 
defendf. 

In  my  former  letters  I  have  given  you  a  melancholy  but 
a  true  representation  of  the  state  of  this  country.  Every 
packet  from  America  and  the  continent  confirms  it.  The 
demonstration  of  facts  follows  the  probability  of  argument, 
and  the  prediction  of  the  present  hour  is  the  experience  of 
the  next.  If  you  will  now  permit  me  to  offer  my  opinion  of 
the  great  persons,  under  whose  administration  we  are  re- 
duced to  this  deplorable  state,  the  public  will  be  enabled  to 
judge  whether  these  are  the  men  most  likely  to  relieve  us 
from  it.  The  curiosity  of  personal  malice  shall  make  no 
part  of  this  enquiry.  As  public  men  we  have  a  right  to  be 
acquainted  with  their  real  characters,  because  we  are  inter- 
ested in  their  public  conduct. 

When  the  Duke  of  Grafton  first  entered  into  office,  it  was 
the  fashion  of  the  times  to  suppose  that  young  men  might 
have  wisdom  without  experience.  They  thought  so  them- 
selves, and  the  most  important  affairs  of  this  country  were 
committed  to  the  first  trial  of  their  abilities.  His  Grace  had 
honourably  flesht  his  maiden  sword  in  the  field  of  opposition, 
and  had  gone  through  all  the  discipline  of  the  minority  with 
credit.  He  dined  at  Wildman's,  railed  at  favourites,  looked 
up  to  Lord  Chatham  with  astonishment,  and  was  the  declared 
advocate  of  Mr.  Wilkes.  It  afterwards  pleased  his  Grace 
to  enter  into  administration  with  his  friend  Lord  Rocking- 
ham, and,  in  a  very  little  time,  it  pleased  his  Grace  to  aban- 

*  Lord  Shelburne  resigned  October  21,  1768.  Edit. 
f  See  Private  Letter,  No.  5.  m  which  the  author  makes  a  similar  re 
mark  upon  the  writers  in  defence  of  the  then  administration.  Edit. 


296  MISCELLANEOUS 

don  him.  He  then  accepted  of  the  treasury  upon  terms  which 
Lord  Temple  had  disdained.  For  a  short  time  his  submission 
to  Lord  Chatham  was  unlimited.  He  could  not  answer  a 
private  letter  without  Lord  Chatham's  permission.  I  pre- 
sume he  was  then  learning  his  trade,  for  he  soon  set  up  for 
himself.  Until  he  declared  himself  the  minister,  his  charac- 
ter had  been  but  little  understood.  From  that  moment  a  sys- 
tem of  conduct,  directed  by  passion  and  caprice,  not  only 
reminds  us  that  he  is  a  young  man,  but  a  young  man  with- 
out solidity  or  judgment.  One  day  he  desponds  and  threatens 
to  resign.  The  next,  he  finds  his  blood  heated,  and  swears  to 
his  friends  he  is  determined  to  go  on.  In  his  public  mea- 
sures we  have  seen  no  proof  either  of  ability  or  consistency. 
The  stamp-act  had  been  repealed  (no  matter  how  unwisely) 
under  the  preceding  administration.  The  colonies  had  reason 
to  triumph,  and  were  returning  to  their  good  humour.  The 
point  was  decided,  when  this  young  man  thought  proper  to 
revive  it.  Without  either  plan  or  necessity  he  adopts  the 
spirit  of  Mr.  Grenville's  measures,  and  renews  the  question 
of  taxation  in  a  form  more  odious  and  less  effectual  than  that 
of  the  law  which  had  been  repealed. 

With  respect  to  the  invasion  of  Corsica*",  it  will  be  mat- 
ter of  parliamentary  enquiry,  whether  he  has  carried  on  a 
secret  negociation  with  the  French  court,  in  terms  contra- 
dictory to  the  resolution  of  council,  and  to  the  instructions 
drawn  up  thereupon  by  his  Majesty's  secretary  of  statef. 
If  it  shall  appear  that  he  has  quitted  the  line  of  his  depart- 
ment to  betray  the  honour  and  security  of  his  country,  and 
if  there  be  a  power  sufficient  to  protect  him,  in  such  a  case, 
against  public  justice,  the  constitution  of  Great  Britain  is  at 
an  end. 

His  standing  foremost  in  the  persecution  of  Mr.  Wilkes, 

*  See  notes  in  Vol.  I.  p.  46.  When,  upon  the  invitation  of  the  Genoese, 
the  French  invaded  Corsica,  a  remonstrance  was  presented  by  the  English 
minister  at  Paris;  but  here  the  resistance  dropped.  Edit. 

f  A  motion  which  tended  to  an  enquiry  of  this  kind  was  made  in  the 
House  of  Commons  by  Hans  Sloane,  Esq.  but  the  uninfluenced,  unplaced, 
tmpensioued  majority,  thought  proper  to  put  a  negative  upon  it. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  297 

if  former  declarations  and  connections  be  considered,  is 
base  and  contemptible*.  The  man  whom  he  now  brands 
with  treason  and  blasphemy,  but  a  very  few  years  ago  was 
the  Duke  of  Grafton's  friend,  nor  is  his  identity  altered,  ex- 
cept  bv  his  misfortunes. — In  the  last  instance  of  his  Grace's 
judgment  and  consistency  we  see  him,  after  tr\  ing  and  de- 
serting every  party,  throw  himself  into  the  arms  of  a  set  of 
men,  whose  political  principles  he  had  always  pretended  to 
abhor.  These  men  I  doubt  not  will  teach  him  the  follv  of  his 
conduct  better  than  I  can.  They  grasp  at  every  thing,  and 
will  soon  push  him  from  his  seat.  His  private  history  would 
but  little  deserve  our  attention,  if  he  had  not  voluntarily 
brought  it  into  public  notice.  I  will  not  call  the  amusements 
of  a  young  man  criminal,  though  I  think  they  become  his 
age  better  than  his  station.  There  is  a  period  at  which  the 
most  unruly  passions  are  gratified  or  exhausted,  and  which 
leaves  the  mind  clear  and  undisturbed  in  its  attention  to 
business.  His  Grace's  gallantry  would  be  offended  if  we 
were  to  suppose  him  within  many  years  of  being  thus  quali» 
fied  for  public  affairs.  As  for  the  rest,  making  every  allow- 
ance for  the  frailty  of  human  nature,  I  can  make  none  for  a 
continued  breach  of  public  decorumf;  nor  can  I  believe  that 
man  very  zealous  for  the  interest  of  his  country  who  sets 
her  opinion  at  defiance.  This  nobleman,  however,  has  one 
claim  to  respect,  since  it  has  pleased  our  gracious  Sovereign 
to  make  him  prime  minister  of  Great  Britain. 

The  chancellor  of  the  exchequer^  is  a  moderate  man,  and 
preteuds  to  no  higher  merit  than  that  of  an  humble  assistant 
in  office.  If  he  escapes  censure,  he  is  too  prudent  to  aim  at 
applause.  The  necessity  of  his  affairs  had  separated  him 
from  earlier  friendships  and  connections,  and  if  he  were  of 
any  consequence,  we  might  lament  that  an  honest  man  should 
find  it  necessary  to  disgrace  himself  in  a  post  he  is  utterly 
unfit  for.  But  we  have  other  objects  to  attend  to.  It  depends 

•  See  Jonius,  Vol.  I.  p.  86.  Edit. 

f  See  Ji'Nius,  Vol.  I.  p.  100.  and  Miscellaneous  Letter  xx.  Edit 

*  Lord  North.  Edit 

Vol.  II.  2  P 


298  MISCELLANEOUS 

greatly  upon  the  present  management  of  the  finances,  whe- 
ther this  country  shall  stand  or  fall.  A  common  clerk  in 
office  may  conduct  the  ordinary  supplies  of  the  year,  but  to 
give  a  sensible  relief  to  public  credit,  or  to  provide  funds 
against  a  rupture  abroad,  are  objects  above  him.  To  remove 
those  oppressions  which  lie  heaviest  upon  trade,  and,  by  the 
same  operation,  to  improve  the  revenue,  demands  a  superior 
capacity,  supported  by  the  most  extensive  knowledge.  To 
vulgar  minds  it  may  appear  unattainable,  because  vulgar 
minds  make  no  distinction  between  the  highly  difficult  and 
the  impossible*. 

The  Earl  of  Hillsboroughf  set  out  with  a  determined  at- 
tachment to  the  court  party,  let  who  would  be  minister.  He 
had  one  vice  less  than  other  courtiers,  for  he  never  even  pre- 
tended to  be  a  patriot.  The  Oxford  election  gave  him  an 
opportunity  of  shewing  some  skill  in  parliamentary  manage- 
ment, while  an  uniform  obsequious  submission  to  his  supe- 
riors introduced  him  into  lucrative  places,  and  crowned  his 
ambition  with  a  peerage.  He  is  now  what  they  call  a  king's 
man;  ready,  as  the  closet  directs,  to  be  any  thing  or  nothing, 
but  always  glad  to  be  employed.  A  new  department,  created 
on  purpose  for  him,  attracted  a  greater  expectation  than  he 
has  yet  been  able  to  support.  In  his  first  act  of  power  he  has 
betrayed  a  most  miserable  want  of  judgment.  A  provision 
for  Lord  Boutetort  was  not  an  object  of  importance  sufficient 
to  justify  a  risk  of  the  first  impression,  which  a  new  minister 
must  give  of  himself  to  the  public.  For  my  own  part  I  hold 
him  in  some  measure  excused;  because  1  am  persuaded  the 
defence  he  has  delivered  privately  to  his  friends  is  true, 
uThat  the  measure  came  from  another  and  a  higher  quarter." 
But  still  he  is  the  tool,  and  ceasing  to  be  criminal,  sinks  into 
contempt.  In  his  new  department  I  am  sorry  to  say  he  has 
shewn  neither  abilities  nor  good  sense.  His  letters  to  the 
colonies  contain  nothing  but  expressions  equally  loose  and 

*  See  Lord  North's  talents  further  discussed  in  the  letters  of  Junius 
No.  xxxix.  Vol.  I.  p.  244.  where  the  writer  does  not  appear  to  entertain 
a  much  higher  opinion  of  them  than  in  his  present  address.  Eon. 

t  Minister  for  the  colonial  department.  Edit. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  299 

violent.  The  minds  of  the  Americans  are  not  to  be  concili- 
ated by  a  language,  which  only  contradicts  without  attempt- 
ing to  persuade.  His  correspondence  upon  the  whole  is  so 
defective  both  in  design  and  composition,  that  it  would  de- 
serve our  pity,  if  the  consequences  to  be  dreaded  from  it  did 
not  excite  our  indignation.  This  treatment  of  the  colonies, 
added  to  his  refusal  to  present  a  petition  from  one  of  them 
to  the  king,  (a  direct  breach  of  the  declaration  of  rights) 
will  naturally  throw  them  all  into  a  flame.  I  protest,  Sir,  I 
am  astonished  at  the  infatuation  which  seems  to  have  direct- 
ed his  whole  conduct.  The  other  ministers  were  proceeding 
in  their  usual  course,  without  foreseeing  or  regarding  con- 
sequences; but  this  nobleman  seems  to  have  marked  out,  by 
a  determined  choice,  the  means  to  precipitate  our  destruction. 

The  Earl  of  Shelburne  had  initiated  himself  in  business, 
by  carrying  messages  between  the  Earl  of  Bute  and  Mr. 
Fox,  and  was  for  some  time  a  favourite  with  both.  Before 
he  was  an  ensign  he  thought  himself  fit  to  be  a  general,  and 
to  be  a  leading  minister  before  he  ever  saw  a  public  office. 
The  life  of  this  young  man  is  a  satire  on  mankind.  The 
treachery,  which  deserts  a  friend,  might  be  a  virtue,  com- 
pared to  the  fawning  baseness  which  attaches  itself  to  a  de- 
clared enemy.  Lord  Chatham  became  his  idol,  introduced 
him  into  the  most  difficult  department  of  the  state,  and  left 
him  there  to  shift  for  himself.  It  was  a  master-piece  of  re- 
venge. Unconnected,  unsupported,  he  remains  in  office  with- 
out interest  or  dignity,  as  if  the  income  were  an  equivalent 
for  all  loss  of  reputation.  Without  spirit  or  judgment  to  take 
an  advantageous  moment  of  retiring,  he  submits  to  be  in- 
sulted, as  long  as  he  is  paid  for  it.  But  even  this  abject  con- 
duct will  avail  him  nothing.  Like  his  great  archetype,  the 
vapour  on  which  he  rose  deserts  him,  and  now, 

"  Fluttering  his  pennons  vain,  plumb  down  he  drops*." 

I  cannot  observe  without  reluctance,  that  the  only  man  of 
real  abilities  in  the  present  administration,  is  not  an  object 
either  of  respect  or  esteem.  The  character  of  the  lord  chan- 

*  Milton,  Paradise  Lost,  ii.  Edit. 


300  MISCELLANEOUS 

cellor*  is  a  strong  proof  that  an  able,  consistent,  judicious 
conduct,  depends  upon  other  qualities  than  those  of  the  head. 
Passions  and  party,  in  his  lordship's  understanding,  had 
united  all  the  extremes.  They  gave  him  to  the  world  in  one 
moment,  the  patron  of  natural  liberty,  independent  of  civil 
constitutions;  in  the  next  the  assertor  of  prerogative  inde- 
pendent of  lawf.  How  he  will  advise  the  crown  in  the  pre- 
sent crisis,  is  of  more  importance  to  the  public  than  to  him- 
self. His  patronage  of  Mr.  Wilkes,  and  of  America,  have 
succeeded  to  his  wish.  They  have  given  him  a  peerage,  a 
pension,  and  the  seals;  and,  as  for  his  future  opinions,  he  can 
adopt  none  for  which  he  may  not  find  a  precedent  and  justi- 
fication in  his  former  conduct. 

The  Earl  of  Chatham — I  had  much  to  say,  but  it  were  in- 
human to  persecute,  when  Providence  has  marked  out  the 
example  to  mankind:}:! 

My  Lord  Granby  is  certainly  a  brave  man  and  a  generous 
man,  and  both  without  design  or  reflection.  How  far  the 
army  is  improved  under  his  direction,  is  another  question. 
His  German  friends  will  all  have  regiments;  and  it  is  enough 
to  say  of  his  lordship,  that  he  has  too  much  good  humour  to 
contradict  the  reigning  minister. 

The  length  of  this  letter  will  not  permit  me  to  do  particular 
justice  to  the  Duke  of  Bedford's  friends;  neither  is  ii  neces- 
sary. With  one  united  view  they  have  but  one  character. 
My  Lord  Gower  and  Lord  Weymouth  were  distressed,  and 
Rigby  was  insatiable.  The  school  they  were  bred  in  taught 
them  how  to  abandon  their  friends,  without  deserting  their 
principles.  There  is  a  littleness  even  in  their  ambition;  for 
money  is  their  first  object.  Their  professed  opinions  upon 
some  great  points  are  so  different  from  those  of  the  party 
with  which  they  are  now  united,  that  the  council-chamber  is 

•Lord  Camden.  Edit. 

|  See  Junius,  Letter  lix.  p.  90  of  this  vol.  Edit. 

$  Lord  Chatham  was  at  this  time  s  >  severely  tortured  and  worn  away  by 
the  gout,  that  it  was  s  pposeel  he  wo  ;  d  never  be  able  to  resume  an  active 
part  in  politics,  ;:nd  in  a  ery  feu  days  after  the  publication  of  this  letter,, 
resigned  his  post  of  lord  privy  seal.  Edit. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  301 

become  a  scene  of  open  hostilities.  While  the  fate  of  Great 
Britain  is  at  stake,  these  worthy  counsellors  dispute  without 
decency,  advise  without  sincerity,  resolve  without  decision, 
and  leave  the  measure  to  be  executed  by  the  man  who  voted 
against  it.  This,  I  conceive,  is  the  last  disorder  of  the  stai.e. 
The  consultation  meets  but  to  disagree.  Opposite  medicines 
are  prescribed,  and  the  last  fixed  on  is  changed  by  the  hand 
that  gives  it. 

Such  is  the  council,  by  which  the  best  of  sovereigns  is  ad- 
vised, and  the  greatest  nation  upon  earth  governed.  Sepa- 
rately the  figures  are  only  offensive;  in  a  group  they  are  for- 
midable. Commerce  languishes,  manufactures  are  oppressed, 
and  public  credit  already  feels  her  approaching  dissolution: 
yet,  under  the  direction  of  this  council,  we  are  to  prepare  for 
a  dreadful  contest  with  the  colonies,  and  a  war  with  the 
whole  house  of  Bourbon.  I  am  not  surprised  that  the  gene- 
rality of  men  should  endeavour  to  shut  their  eyes  to  this 
melancholy  prospect.  Yet  I  am  filled  with  grief  and  indig- 
nation, when  I  behold  a  wise  and  gallant  people  lost  in  a 
stupidity,  which  does  not  feel,  because  it  will  not  look  for- 
ward. The  voice  of  one  man  will  hardly  be  heard  when  the 
voice  of  truth  and  reason  is  neglected;  but  as  far  as  mine  ex- 
tends, the  authors  of  our  ruin  shall  be  marked  out  to  the 
public.  I  will  not  tamely  submit  to  be  sacrificed,  nor  shall 
this  country  perish  without  warning. 

ATTICUS. 


LETTER  XL1X. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  26  October,  1768. 

The  great  abilities  which  have  distinguished  the  character 
of  the  Earl  of  Rochford,  have  justly  procured  him  the  love 
of  his  countrymen,  and  have  entitled  him  to  the  favour  and 
protection  of  his  sovereign:  it  was  therefore  with  universal 
approbation  that  the  public  received  the  promises  of  his  ad- 
vancement at  this  important  crisis  to  the  important  office  of 
secretary  of  state.  It  was  with  a  degree  of  hope,  to  which 


302  MISCELLANEOUS 

they  have  long  been  unaccustomed,  that  they  flattered  them- 
selves foreign  business  would  now  be  no  longer  neglect- 
ed. They  had  reason  to  expect  much  from  a  man  to  whom 
nature  had  been  lavish,  and  whose  natural  talents,  great  as 
they  were,  must  have  been  considerably  augmented  by  along 
residence  and  a  constant  attention  to  business  in  courts, 
which  are  perhaps  superior  to  all  others  in  the  arts  and  mys- 
teries of  negotiation.  It  was  now  that  they  felt  themselves 
secure  in  the  assurance  that  the  correspondences  with  the 
courts  of  Paris,  Madrid,  and  Turin  were  to  be  carried  on  by 
a  man  above  all  others  qualified  for  so  arduous  a  task;  by  a 
man  who  had  gained  great  reputation  as  an  ambassador  in 
each  of  them. 

It  was  in  vain  that  the  enemies  to  administration  endea- 
voured to  suggest  that  that  nobleman  was  not  singled  out  on 
account  of  his  superior  abilities,  but  on  account  of  his  neu- 
trality and  non-attachment  to  any  particular  men  or  mea- 
sures; it  was  in  vain  that  they  represented  his  nomination  as 
a  mere  act  of  necessity,  resulting  from  the  incapacity  of  the 
leaders  to  promote  any  other  without  widening  their  bot- 
tom, which  was  a  measure  that,  above  all  others,  they  most 
apprehended. 

These  suggestions  had  little  or  no  effect;  they  were  either 
totally  disbelieved  or  disregarded; .  the  consequence  was 
good,  and  the  public  were  not  at  all  curious  to  know  the 
cause;  their  joy,  that  such  a  measure  was  to  take  place,  was 
only  equalled  by  their  surprise;  and  as  their  joy  proceeded 
from  a  reflection  of  the  past,  as  it  related  to  Lord  Rochford, 
they  were  inattentive  to  the  present,  as  it  related  to  others. 

What  pity  it  is  that  they  were  so  soon  disappointed,  and 
that  a  joy  so  well  founded  was  destined  to  be  of  so  short  a 
duration.  In  proportion  as  they  were  elevated  with  the  hopes 
of  his  being  taken  into  office,  so  are  they  dejected  by  the 
manner  of  his  appointment.  The  course  and  order  of  busi- 
ness appears  to  have  been  violated,  and  that  vacancv,  to 
which  his  lordship  ought  to  have  succeeded,  and  which  he 
was  so  well  qualified  to  fill,  has  been  suffered  to  be  possessed 
by  another  altogether  a  stranger  to  the  principal  wheels  of 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  303 

those  machines,  which  it  becomes  his  duty  to  regulate;  and 
the  abilities  of  the  earl  have  been  as  far  as  possible  thwarted 
by  his  being  plunged  into  a  correspondence  with  courts,  of 
whose  maxims  and  interests  he  is  no  better  qualified  to  judge 
than  any  other  of  his  Majesty's  servants  who  would  make 
use  of  as  much  attention,  and  who  may  be  happily  endowed 
with  as  much  penetration*.  It  is  now  then  that  the  public 
have  both  cause  and  inclination  to  ask  a  question,  which  they 
before  thought  useless  and  impertinent:  it  is-mow  that  with 
horror  they  reflect  on  the  intelligence  communicated  by  your 
correspondent  Atticus*;  it  is  now  that  they  tremble  at  the 
thoughts  of  a  secret  negotiation  with  the  French  court  in 
relation  to  Corsica;  and  it  is  now  that  they  ask,  Why  was 
Lord  Rochford  appointed  secretary  of  state,  and  for  the 
northern  department!? 

WHY? 


LETTER  L. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC  ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  27  October,  1768. 

When  an  anonymous  writer  tells  the  public,  that  a  great 
minister,  who  happens  to  be  his  particular  friend,  has  given 
him  assurances  of  any  sort,  with  regard  to  state  affairs,  the 
authority  is  doubly  suspicious.  In  the  first  place,  that  such 
writers  should  have  such  friends  is  not,  in  the  highest  de- 
gree, probable.  In  the  next,  it  is  much  to  be  doubted,  whe- 
ther ministers  of  state  always  tell  the  truth  even  to  their 
most  intimate  acquaintance.  I  take  for  granted,  the  author 
of  the  letter,  signed  Plain  Truth  and  Justice^.,  is  a  modest 
man,  since  he  expects  an  implicit  reliance  on  the  bare  asser- 
tion of  a  person  entirely  unknown  to  us.  But  I  fear  he  will 
find  himself  a  little  disappointed,  for  the  public  is  not  to  be 

*  Seethe  preceding  letter.  Edit. 

f  See  this  subject  further  discussed  in  Junius,  letter  i.  Vol.  I.  p. 37. — 
Edit. 

i  He  alludes  to  a  correspondent  in  the  Public  Advertiser,  who  had  re- 
plied to  his  former  letter  under  this  signature.  Edit. 


304  MISCELLANEOUS 

imposed  upon  by  such  gross  artifices.  The  letters,  in  which 
your  correspondent  Atticus  had  foretold  the  decline  of  pub- 
lic credit,  seemed  to  rest  upon  a  very  different  footing.  He 
made  no  assertions  of  his  own,  because  he  neither  required 
nor  expected  any  reliance  on  his  personal  credit  or  authority. 
He  stated  facts  too  notorious  to  be  disputed,  and  he  reasoned 
upon  them  in  a  way,  which  there  has  yet  been  no  attempt  to 
answer.  This  is  the  fair  ground  on  which  his  opponents 
ought  to  meet  him.  Vague  assertions  have  no  claim  to  credit, 
and,  if  they  had,  would  amount  to  no  proof.  What  ministers 
are  pleased  to  say,  or  what  their  friends  say  for  them,  is  but 
of  little  moment.  A  man,  who  in  the  present  crisis  would 
direct  his  conduct  upon  sure  grounds,  ought  to  examine  the 
real  state  of  public  aftairs,  and,  according  as  he  finds  them, 
act  with  prudence  for  himself  and  his  family.  I  know  that  an 
artful  combination  in  the  alley,  may,  for  a  short  time,  raise 
or  sink  the  price  of  stocks  a  trifle.  But  no  arts,  no  combina- 
tion can  support  them  against  the  reality  of  national  distress. 
The  maxim  holds  through  life.  A  beggar  may  cut  a  figure 
for  a  day,  but  his  ruin  is  inevitable,  and  his  creditors  perish 
with  him. 

Your  correspondent  assures  us  that  no  money  will  be 
wanted  for  the  ensuing  year.  With  all  due  respect  to  an 
anonymous  assertion,  I  should  be  glad  to  know  by  what  sort 
of  reasoning  he  would  support  it.  Do  the  ministry  mean  to 
leave  the  debt  on  the  civil  list  unpaid?  I  will  tell  him,  that 
they  cannot,  dare  not  do  it.  This  debt  amounts  to  above  six 
hundred  thousand  pounds,  and  if  they  can  pay  it  without 
money,  so  much  the  better. — Have  they  made  any  agree- 
ment with  the  East-India  Company?  No — Have  they  made 
any  provision  for  outstanding  navy  and  victualling  bills?  I 
answer,  they  must  whether  they  will  or  no. — Have  the  Bank 
agreed  to  continue  creditors  for  the  last  million  they  advan- 
ced to  government?  I  answer,  that  the  Bank  have  no  confi- 
dence in  the  present  administration,  and  will  not  trust  them. 
As  to  taking  the  four  per  cents,  entirely  out  of  the  market, 
Mr.  Grenville,  or  an  able  financier,  who  possessed  the  con- 
fidence of  the  public,  might  perhaps  accomplish  it,  but  it  is 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  305 

not  an  object  within  the  reach  of  the  present  treasury  board. 
They  talk  of  it  in  their  dreams,  and  forget  it  when  they 
wake*. 

These,  Sir,  are  considerations  independent  of  a  war  which 
hangs  over  us,  and  of  a  contest  with  the  colonies,  which  in 
no  way  can  end  favourably  for  this  country.  As  to  moderate 
qualifying  measures,  I  know  but  one  which  the  Americans 
will  accept  of,  and  that  is  an  absolute  release  from  all  sub- 
jection. They  will  reject  with  disdain  an  offer  to  be  repre- 
sented in  parliament,  because  they  will  be  independent.  They 
found  the  effect  of  their  last  combination,  and  when  they  de- 
mand a  repeal  of  an  act  of  the  legislature,  it  must  be  done 
without  conditions.  But,  in  the  name  of  common  sense,  what 
useful  purpose  will  our  submission  answer?  Upon  the  repeal 
of  the  stamp  act,  our  exports  to  America,  instead  of  doubling, 
as  had  been  promised,  diminished  considerably.  What  are 
we  doing  then,  but  surrendering  the  first  essential  rights 
and  principles  of  the  constitution  for  the  sake  of  a  bribe,  of 
which  we  are  cheated  at  last? — We  may  retire  to  our  prayers, 
for  the  game  is  up. 

BRUTUS. 


LETTER  LI. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  14  November,  176S. 

When  I  foretold  the  approach  of  a  foreign  war,  the  cer- 
tainty of  a  rupture  with  the  colonies,  and  the  decline  of  pub- 
lic credit,  my  opinion  was  chiefly  founded  on  the  character, 
circumstances,  and  abilities  of  the  present  administration. 
Fortune  has  but  little  share  in  the  events  most  interesting 
to  mankind.  Individuals  perish  by  their  own  imprudence, 
and  the  ruin  of  an  empire  is  no  more  than  the  misconduct  of 
a  minister  or  a  king.  Without  the  credit  of  personal  repu- 
tation, divided  as  a  ministry,  and  unsupported  by  talents  or 

*  See  Junius,  letter  xxxix.  in  which  the  failure  of  Lord  North  to  ef- 
fect this  object  is  censured  by  the  author,  and  explained  in  a  note  appen- 
ded to  it.  Edit. 

Vol.  II.  2  Q 


300  MISCELLANEOUS 

experience,  his  Majesty's  servants  had  left  the  field  of  na- 
tional calamity  wide  open  to  prediction.  It  seems  they  were 
determined  to  accomplish  more  than  even  their  enemies  had 
foretold.  For  my  own  part,  I  am  not  personally  their  enemy, 
and  I  could  have  wished  that  their  conduct  had  not  made 
the  name  of  friend  to  the  ministry  irreconcileable  with  that 
of  friend  to  Great  Britain. 

The  most  contemptible  character  in  private  life,  and  the 
most  ruinous  to  private  fortunes,  is  that  which  possesses 
neither  judgment  nor  inclination  to  do  right,  nor  resolution 
enough  to  be  consistent  in  doing  wrong.  Such  a  man  loses 
all  the  credit  of  firmness,  and  uniformity,  and  suffers  the 
whole  reproach  of  weak  or  malicious  intentions.  In  politics, 
there  is  no  other  ministerial  character  so  pernicious  to  the 
honour  of  a  prince,  or  so  fatal  to  the  welfare  of  a  nation.  It 
is  of  the  highest  importance  to  enquire,  whether  the  present 
ministry  deserve  it. 

The  name  of  Lord  Chatham's  administration  was  soon 
lost  in  triat  of  the  Duke  of  Grafton.  His  grace  took  the  lead, 
and  made  himself  answerable  for  the  measures  of  a  council, 
ttt  which  he  was  supposed  to  preside.  He  had  gone  as  far  as 
any  man  in  support  of  Mr.  Pitt's  doctrine,  That  parliament 
h-ad  no  right  to  lay  a  tax  upon  America,  for  the  sole  purpose 
of  raising  a  revenue.  It  was  a  doctrine  on  which  Lord 
Chatham  and  the  chancellor*'  formed  their  administration, 
and  his  grace  had  concurred  in  it  zvith  all  his  sincerity.  Yet 
the  first  act  of  his  own  administration  was  to  impose  that  tax 
upon  America,  which  has  since  thrown  the  whole  continent 
into  a  flame.  A  wise  man  would  have  let  the  question  drop; 
a  good  man  would  have  felt  and  adhered  to  the  principles  he 
professed.  While  the  gentle  Conway  breathed  into  his  ear, 
he  was  all  lenity  and  moderation.  The  colonies  were  dutiful 
children,  and  Great  Britain  a  severe  parent.  A  combination 
to  ruin  this  country  was  no  more  than  an  amicable  agree- 
ment, and  rebellion  was  a  natural  right  confirmed  by  the  re- 
volution. But  now  it  seems  his  grace's  opinions  are  altered 

*  Lord  Camden.  Edit. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  307 

with  his  connections.  The  measures  of  the  colonies  are  sub- 
versive of  the  constitution;  they  manifest  a  disposition  to 
throw  off  their  dependance,  and  vigorous  measures  must  be 
enforced  at  the  point  of  the  sword.  In  vain  may  we  look  for 
the  temper  and  firmness  of  a  great  minister; — we  shall  find 
nothing  but  the  passion  or  weakness  of  a  boy; — the  enervat- 
ed languor  of  a  consumption,  or  the  false  strength  of  a  deli- 
rium. 

The  same  inconsistency  will  be  found  to  prevail  through 
every  measure  and  operation  of  government.  Perhaps  there 
may  be  discovered  something  more  than  supineness  in  the 
first  neglect  of  Corsica,  and  something  worse  than  inconsist- 
ency in  the  contradiction  given  to  Lord  Rochford's  spirited 
declaration  to  the  court  of  France*.  His  grace  ?has  lately 
adopted  the  opposite  extreme,  and  scruples  not  to  give  an 
alarming  shock  to  public  credit,  by  hints  little  short  of  a  de- 
claration of  war.  What  is  this  but  the  undetermined  timidity 
of  a  coward,  who  trembles  on  the  brink,  until  he  plunges 
headlong  into  the  stream? 

In  one  gazette  we  see  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst  dismissed;  in 
the  very  next,  we  see  him  restored,  and  both  without  reason 
or  decency.  The  peerage,  which  had  been  absolutely  re- 
fused, is  granted,  and  as  in  the  first  instance  the  royal  faith 
was  violated,  in  the  second  the  royal  dignity  is  betrayed. 
But  this  perhaps  is  a  compliment  to  the  duke's  new  friend- 
ship with  the  Earl  of  Hillsborough. 

Without  approving  of  Mr.  Wilkes's  conduct,  I  lament  his 
fate.  The  Duke  of  Grafton,  who  contributed  to  his  support 
abroad,  has  given  the  mandate  for  his  expulsion.  But  I  trust 
there  is  yet  a  spirit,  which  will  not  obey  such  mandates. 
This  honourable  enterprize  will  probably  be  defeated,  and 
leave  the  author  of  it  nothing  but  a  distinguished  excess  of 
infamy,  the  last  consolation  of  a  profligate  mind. 

Is  it  possible,  Sir,  that  such  a  ministry  can  long  remain 
united,  or  support  themselves  if  they  were  united?  The  Duke 
of  Grafton,  it  is  true,  has  no  scruple  nor  delicacy  in  the 

*  See  Junius,  letter  xn.  Vol.  I.  p.  94  Edit. 


308  MISCELLANEOUS 

choice  of  his  measures.  They  are  the  measures  of  the  day, 
and  vary  as  often  as  the  weather.  But  his  companions  had 
each  their  separate  plan,  to  which,  for  the  credit  of  govern- 
ment, and  the  benefit  of  this  country,  they  have  severally 
adhered.  The  intrepid  thoughtless  spirit  of  the  commander 
in  chief  looks  no  farther  than  to  the  disposal  of  commissions* 
He  is  the  friend  and  patron  of  the  military.  With  this  cha- 
racter he  suffers  the  army  to  be  robbed  of  a  regiment,  by 
way  of  pension  to  the  noble  disinterested  house  of  Percy; 
and  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst  to  be  sacrificed  without  pretending 
to  the  credit  of  restoring  him*.  His  lordship's  conduct  per- 
plexes me.  I  am  at  a  loss  which  to  admire  most;  the  pene- 
trating sagacity,  with  which  he  understands  the  rights  of  the 
army,  or  the  firmness  with  which  he  defends  them. 

When  an  ungracious  act  was  to  be  done,  the  Earl  of  Hills- 
borough was  chosen  for  the  instrument  of  it.  He  deserved, 
since  he  submitted  to  bear,  the  whole  reproach  of  Sir  Jeffery 
Amherst's  dismission.  The  gallant  knight  obtains  his  price, 
and  the  noble  earl,  with  whatever  appetite,  must  meet  him, 
with  a  smile  of  congratulation,  and  clear  Sir  Jeffery,  I  most 
cordially  wish  you  joy!  After  all,  it  must  be  confessed,  there 
are  some  mortifications  which  might  touch  even  the  callous 
spirit  of  a  courtier. 

The  chancellor  of  the  exchequer  has  many  deficiencies  to 
make  good  besides  those  of  land  and  malt;  and  to  say  the 
truth,  he  has  a  gallant  way  of  doing  it.  He  gallops  bravely 
through  thick  and  thin,  as  the  court  directs,  and  I  dare  say 
would  defend  even  an  honest  cause  with  as  much  zeal  and 
eloquence,  as  if  he  were  ordered  to  shew  his  parts  upon  nul- 
lum tempus\,  or  a  Cumberland  election. 

It  would  be  unjust  to  the  Duke  of  Bedford's  friends  to 
attribute  their  conduct  to  any  but  the  motives  which  they 
themselves  profess.  Mr.  Rigby  is  so  modest  a  man,  that  the 
imputation  of  public  virtue,  or  private  good  faith,  would  of- 
fend his  delicacy,  if  he  did  not  feel,  as  he  certainly  does,  the 

*  See  Junius,  letter  in.  Vol.  I.  p.  47.  Edit. 

f  Sec  J  uni  us,  letter  lvii.  p.  7S  of  this  Vol.  and  editor's  note  to  Miscel- 
laneous Letter,  No.  xiv.  Edit. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  309 

genuine  emotions  of  patriotism  and  friendship  warm  in  his 
breast.  They  argued  not  ill  for  ambition,  while  they  asked 
for  nothing  but  profit;  and  when  the  Duke  of  Grafton  has 
exhausted  the  treasury,  he  will  find  that  every  other  power 
departs  with  the  power  of  giving. 

In  this  and  my  former  letters  I  have  presented  to  you, 
with  plainness  and  sincerity,  the  melancholy  condition  to 
which  we  are  reduced.  The  characters  of  a  weak  and  worth- 
less ministry  would  hardly  deserve  the  attention  of  history, 
but  that  they  are  fatally  united,  and  must  be  recorded  with 
the  misfortunes  of  their  country. 

If  there  be  yet  a  spark  of  virtue  left  among  us,  this  great 
nation  shall  not  be  sacrificed  to  the  fluctuating  interests  or 
wayward  passions  of  a  minister,  nor  even  to  the  caprices  of 
a  monarch.  If  there  be  no  virtue  left,  it  is  no  matter  who 
are  ministers,  nor  how  soon  they  accomplish  our  destruction. 

ATTICUS. 


LETTER  LII. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF    THE  PUBLIC    ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  21  November,  1768. 

It  will  soon  be  decided  by  the  highest  authority  whether 
the  justice  of  our  laws,  and  the  liberty  of  our  constitution, 
have  been  essentially  violated  in  the  person  of  Mr.  Wilkes*. 
As  a  public  man,  his  fate  will  be  determined,  nor  is  it  safe  or 
necessary  at  present  to  enter  into  the  merits  of  his  cause. 
We  are  interested  in  this  question  no  farther  than  as  he  is  a 
part  of  a  well-regulated  society.  If  a  member  of  it  be  injured, 
the  laws  and  constitution  will  defend  him.  But  where  is  the 
law  to  enforce  the  engagements  of  private  faith,  or  to  punish 
the  breach  of  them?  Where  shall  he  apply  for  redress,  with 
whom  all  ties  of  honour,  professions  of  friendship,  and  obli- 
gations of  party  have  been  violated  or  betrayed?  A  man  so 
injured  has  no  redress  or  consolation,  but  what  he  finds  in 
the  resentment  and  generous  sympathy  of  mankind. 

•  Upon  the  issue  of  the  General  Warrant.  Edit. 


310  MISCELLANEOUS 

The  violation  of  party  faith  is  of  itself  too  common  to  ex- 
cite surprize  or  indignation.  Political  friendships  are  so  well 
understood,  that  we  can  hardly  pity  the  simplicity  they  de- 
ceive; and  if  Mr.  Wilkes  had  only  been  deserted,  he  would 
but  have  given  us  one  example  more  of  the  folly  of  relying 
on  such  engagements.  But  his,  I  conceive,  is  a  singular  si- 
tuation. There  is  scarce  an  instance  of  party  merit  so  great 
as  his,  or  so  ill  rewarded.  Other  men  have  been  abandoned 
by  their  friends: — Mr.  Wilkes  alone  is  oppressed  by  them. 
One  would  think  that  the  first  lord  of  the  treasury*  and  the 
chancellorf  might  have  been  contented  with  forgetting  the 
man,  to  whom  they  principally  owed  their  elevation; — but 
hearts  like  theirs  are  not  so  easily  satisfied.  They  left  him 
unsupported,  when  they  ceased  to  want  his  assistance,  and, 
to  cover  the  reproach  of  passive  ingratitude,  they  pursue 
him  to  destruction.  The  bounds  of  human  science  are  still 
unknown,  but  this  assuredly  is  the  last  limit  of  human  de- 
pravity. Notorious  facts  speak  for  themselves,  and  in  this 
case,  an  honest  man  will  want  no  spur  to  rouse  his  indigna- 
tion. Men  of  a  different  character  would  do  well  to  consider 
what  their  security  is  with  a  minister,  who  breaks  without 
scruple  through  all  engagements  of  party,  and  is  weak  enough 
to  set  all  public  shame  at  defiance.  There  is  a  firmness  of 
character,  which  will  support  a  minister,  even  against  his 
vices;  but  where  is  the  dependance  of  his  friends,  when  they 
have  no  hold  either  on  his  heart  or  his  understanding?  De- 
tested by  the  better  part  of  mankind,  he  will  soon  be  sus- 
pected by  the  worst,  for  no  man  relies  securely  on  another, 
whom  he  thinks  less  honest  and  less  wise  than  himself. 

In  the  present  instance  the  Duke  of  Grafton  may  possibly 
find  that  he  has  played  a  foolish  game.  He  rose  by  Mr. 
Wilkes's  popularity,  and  it  is  not  improbable  that  he  may  fall 
by  it. 

JUNIUS. 

*  The  Duke  of  Grafton.  Edit.  f  Lord  Camden.  Edit. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  31 1 


LETTER  LIII. 


FOR    THE  PUBLIC  ADVERTISER. 

15  December,  1768. 

TO  THE  RIGHT  HON.  GEORGE  GRENVILLE. 
Sir, 
If  there  be  any  thing  improper  in  this  address,  the  singu- 
larity of  your  present  situation  will,  I  hope,  excuse  it.  Your 
conduct  attracts  the  attention,  because  it  is  highly  interesting 
to  the  welfare  of  the  public,  and  a  private  man,  who  only 
expresses  what  thousands  think,  cannot  well  be  accused  of 
flattery  or  detraction.  If  we  may  judge  by  what  passes  every 
day  in  a  great  assembly,  you  already  possess  all  the  consti- 
tuent parts  of  a  minister,  except  the  honour  of  distributing, 
or  the  emolument  of  receiving  the  public  money.  These,  in 
.the  contemplation  of  the  present  ministry,  are  the  most  es- 
sential ornaments  of  office.  They  are  the  decus  et  tutamen  of 
a  respectable  administration,  and  the  last  that  a  prudent  ad- 
ministration will  relinquish.  As  for  the  authority,  the  credit, 
or  the  business  of  their  offices,  they  are  ready  to  resign  them 
to  you  without  reluctance.  With  regard  to  their  appearance 
and  behaviour  within  doors,  these  docile  creatures  find  a  re* 
lief  in  your  understanding  from  the  burthen  of  thinking,  and 
in  your  direction  from  the  labour  of  acting.  This,  however, 
is  no  more  than  the  natural  precedence  of  superior  abilities 
and  knowledge.  Folly  cannot  long  take  the  pas  of  wisdom, 
and  ignorance  sooner  or  later  must  submit  to  experience. 
Yet,  considering  what  sort  of  heads  you  have  to  deal  with, 
the  task  of  giving  them  instruction  must  be  a  heavy  one. 
The  triumph  is  hardly  equal  to  the  labour  which  attends  it. 
To  convey  instruction  into  heads,  which  perceive  nothing, 
is  as  hard  a  task  as  to  instil  sentiments  into  hearts  that  feel 
nothing.  In  both  these  articles,  I  think,  his  Majesty's  pre- 
sent servants  are  invulnerable.  They  are  of  so  strange  a 
composition,  that  knowledge  will  neither  penetrate  the  sub- 
stance, nor  shame  stick  upon  the  surface.  They  have  one 
short  remedy  for  every  inconvenience,  a  remedy  which  ty- 


312  MISCELLANEOUS 

rants  make  use  of,  and  fools  profess,  without  scruple  or  ma- 
nagement. Force  is  their  grand  arcanum  imperii.  If  this  be 
the  executive  power  of  the  crown,  they  possess  and  exert  it 
to  a  miracle.  Red  and  brown  makes  all  the  difference.  To 
Southwark  the  guards  are  detached  in  their  uniforms; — to 
Brentford  they  march  like  gentlemen,  with  orders  to  change 
their  colours  in  the  blood  of  this  country.  This,  Sir,  is  the 
last  irresistible  argument  of  kings; — the  only  one  which  your 
abilities  cannot  answer,  nor  your  integrity  oppose  with  effect. 
In  vain  shall  you  demand  an  account  of  the  most  flagrant 
waste  of  public  money.  The  ministry  are  sure  of  being  pro- 
tected by  ruffians  who  received  it.  The  murder  of  his  Ma- 
jesty's English  subjects  calls  aloud,  but  calls  in  vain,  for 
justice.  To  complain  is  dangerous,  to  prosecute  might  be 
fatal.  We  are  arrived  at  that  dreadful  crisis,  at  which  open 
murders  may  well  be  succeeded  by  secret  assassination. 
May  heaven  avert  the  omen! 

Your  weight  and  authority  in  parliament  are  acknowledged 
by  the  submission  of  your  opponents.  Your  credit  with  the 
public  is  equally  extensive  and  secure,  because  it  is  founded 
on  a  system  of  conduct  wisely  adopted  and  firmly  main- 
tained. You  have  invariably  adhered  to  one  cause,  one  lan- 
guage, and  when  your  friends  deserted  that  cause  they  de- 
serted you.  They  who  dispute  the  rectitude  of  your  opi- 
nions, admit  that  your  conduct  has  been  uniform,  manly,  and 
consistent.  This  letter,  I  doubt  not,  will  be  attributed  to 
some  party  friend,  by  men  who  expect  no  applause  but  from 
their  dependants.  But  you,  Sir,  have  the  testimony  of  your 
enemies  in  your  favour.  After  years  of  opposition,  we  see 
them  revert  to  those  very  measures,  with  violence,  with 
hazard  and  disgrace,  which  in  the  first  instance,  might  have 
been  conducted  with  ease,  with  dignity  and  moderation. 

While  parliament  preserves  its  constitutional  authority, 
vou  will  preserve  yours.  As  long  as  there  is  a  real  repre- 
sentation of  the  people,  you  will  be  heard  in  that  great  as- 
sembly with  attention,  deference,  and  respect;  and  if  fatally 
for  England,  the  designs  of  the  present  ministry  should  at 
last  succeed,you  will  have  the  consolation  to  reflect  that  your 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS,  313 

voice  was  heard,  until  the  voice  of  truth  and  reason  was 
drowned  in  the  din  of  arms;  and  that  your  influence  in  par- 
liament was  irresistible  until  every  question  was  decided  by 
the  sword*. 

*  The  warm  attachment  of  Junius  to  every  part  of  the  conduct  of  this 
distinguished  statesman,  may  perhaps  be  conceived  to  import  something 
more  than  a  mere  political  concurrence  of  sentiment,  and  to  indicate  an 
ardent  personal  friendship.  The  editor  has  found  it  necessary  to  glance  at 
such  an  idea  on  several  former  occasions.  Yet  for  the  honour  of  Junius, 
it  ought  to  be  observed,  that  there  were  few  political  characters  of  the 
day,  who  were  more  entitled  to  his  panegyric.  Upon  which  subject  the 
reader  will  not  be  displeased  at  being  presented  with  the  following  brief 
sketch  of  Mr.  Grenville's  character  from  the  pen  of  a  gentleman  to  whom 
these  notes  have  been  already  indebted,  and  who  had  repeated  opportu- 
nities of  forming  a  correct  estimate  of  his  worth.  It  is  extracted  from  the 
second  volume  of  Mr.  Knox's  Extra  Official  State  Papers,  from  which  a 
letter  written  by  Mr.  Grenville,  on  the  subject  of  American  politics,  has 
been  selected  in  note  to  Miscellaneous  Letters  No.  xxxi.  The  anecdote 
respecting  Florida  and  Louisiana  is  infinitely  creditable  to  his  "shrewd 
inflexible  judgment"  as  a  statesman,  and  his  conduct  as  a  minister  is  in 
many  respects  not  unworthy  the  imitation  of  those  who  hold  the  same  dig- 
nified situations  in  the  present  day. 

"  Mr.  Grenville  under  a  manner  rather  austere  and  forbidding,  covered 
a  heart  as  feeling  and  tender  as  any  man  ever  possessed.  He  liked  office 
as  well  for  its  emoluments  as  its  power;  but  in  his  attention  to  himself  he 
never  failed  to  pay  regard  to  the  situations  and  circumstances  of  his 
friends,  though  to  neither  would  he  warp  the  public  interest  or  service  in 
the  smallest  degree;  rigid  in  his  opinions  of  public  justice  and  integrity, 
and  firm  to  inflexibility  in  the  construction  of  his  mind,  he  reprobated 
every  suggestion  of  the  political  expediency  of  overlooking  frauds  or  eva- 
sions in  the  payment  or  collection  of  the  revenue,  or  of  waste  and  extra- 
vagance in  its  expenditure.  But  although  he  would  not  bend  any  measure 
out  of  the  strict  line  of  rectitude  to  gain  popularity,  he  was  far  from  be- 
ing indifferent  to  the  good  or  ill  opinion  of  the  public;  and  that  tediousness 
and  repetition  which  his  speeches  in  parliament,  and  his  transactions  with 
men  of  business  were  charged  with,  were  occasioned  by  the  earnestness 
of  his  desire  to  satisfy  and  convince  those  he  addressed  of  the  purity  of 
his  motives  and  the  propriety  of  his  conduct;  and  while  there  remained  a 
single  reason  in  his  own  mind,  that  he  thought  would  serve  those  pur- 
poses, he  could  not  be  content  to  rest  upon  those  he  had  already  ad- 
duced, however  convinced  and  satisfied  his  hearers  appeared  to  be  with 
them. 

"  Inheriting  but  a  small  patrimonial  fortune,  he  had  early  accustomed 
himself  to  a  strict  appropriation  of  his  income,  and  an  exact  economy  in 
its  expenditure,  as  the  only  sure  ground  on  which  to  build  a  reputation  for 
public  and  private  integrity,  and  to  support  u  dignified  independency;  and 

it 

Vol.  II.  2  R 


314  MISCELLANEOUS 


LETTER  LIV. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC  ADVERTISER. 
Mr.  Woodfall,  12  April,  1769. 

The  monody  on  the  supposed  death  of  Junius  is  not  the 
less  poetical  for  being  founded  on  a  fiction.  In  some  parts  of 

it  was  the  unvaried  practice  of  his  life  in  all  situations,  as  he  has  often 
told  me,  to  live  upon  his  own  private  fortune,  and  save  the  emoluments  of 
whatever  office  he  possessed;  on  which  account  he  added:  '  The  being  in 
or  out  makes  no  difference  in  my  establishment  or  manner  of  life.  Every 
thing  goes  on  at  home  in  the  same  way.  The  only  difference  is,  that  my 
childrens'  fortunes  would  be  increased  by  my  being  in,  beyond  what  they 
would  be  if  I  remained  out,  and  that  is  being  as  little  dependant  upon 
office  as  any  man  who  was  not  born  to  a  great  estate  can  possibly  be;'  and 
he  manifested  that  independence  at  a  time  and  in  a  manner  but  little 
known,  and  as  the  relation  can  now  do  no  harm,  I  shall  repeat  the  account 
he  gave  me  of  it.  He  had  accepted  the  seals  of  one  of  the  secretaries  of 
state  in  Lord  Bute's  administration,  and  by  so  doing  drew  upon  himself 
the  resentment  and  abuse  of  the  then  popular  party  and  of  some  of  his 
own  nearest  relations;  his  return,  therefore,  to  them,  was  rendered  im- 
practicable upon  any  occasion,  and  he  had  every  motive  to  induce  him  ti< 
remain  with  his  present  connection.  Notwithstanding  which,  he  very 
soon  hazarded  his  continuance  in  office  in  support  of  his  opinion,  of  what 
ought  to  be  done  for  the  advantage  of  the  public,  on  the  following  oc- 
casion: 

"  While  the  peace  was  negotiating,  the  expedition  against  the  Havan- 
nah  was  carrying  on,  and  as  the  chance  of  its  success  or  failure  was  not 
very  unequal,  the  negotiators  agreed  to  leave  it  out  in  their  uti  possidetis, 
considering  the  event  as  perfectly  neutral;  so  that  if  after  the  prelimina- 
ries were  signed,  it  was  found  to  be  taken,  it  was  to  be  restored  without 
compensation.  Before  the  preliminaries  were  signed,  however,  the  ac- 
count of  its  capture  was  received,  and  Mr.  Grenville  immediately  pro- 
posed  that  it  should  now  be  included  in  the  uti  possidetis,  and  compensation 
for  it  insisted  upon,  for  as  the  event  was  decided  before  the  preliminaries 
were  signed,  either  party  was  at  liberty  to  avail  themselves  of  it.  Lord 
Bute  thought  the  treaty  was  too  far  advanced  to  make  any  advantage  of 
the  event  being  in  our  favour,  and  he  feared  that  our  making  any  fresh  de- 
mand, would  not  only  protract  but  break  off  the  negotiation,  and  prevent 
the  peace  taking  place  immediately,  which  he  thought  so  necessary  for 
the  nation.  Mr.  Grenville  was  clear  in  his  opinion  of  our  right  to  make  the 
demand,  and  firm  in  insisting  that  it  should  be  made,  and  proposed  two 
alternatives  for  consideration.  The  one,  that  if  we  judged  it  best  to  get 
the  intire  possession  of  the  continent  of  North  America,  France  having 
already  agreed  to  cede  all  Canada,  that  we  should  insist  upon  Florida  and 

Louisiana: 


•  LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  315 

it  there  is  a  promise  of  genius  which  deserves  to  be  en- 
couraged*. My  letter  of  Monday  will,  I  hope,  convince  the 

Louisiana:  the  other,  that  if  we  thought  it  necessary  to  increase  our  pos- 
sessions in  the  West  Indies,  beyond  the  three  neutral  islands,  which 
France  had  also  agreed  to  give  us,  we  should  ask  Porto  Rico,  and  the 
property  of  what  we  held  upon  the  Spanish  main;  and  he  left  the  earl 
with  declaring  that  he  would  resign  the  seals,  if  one  of  those  alternatives 
was  not  adopted  and  insisted  upon.  After  consulting  with  Mr.  Fox  and 
Lord  Egremont,  Lord  Bute  agreed  to  make  the  demand  of  Florida  :ind 
Louisiana,  and  instructions  to  that  purpose  were  immediately  dispatched 
to  the  Duke  of  Bedford,  who  made  so  able  and  strenuous  an  application 
in  consequence  of  them,  that  the  Duke  de  Choiseul  not  only  consented  to 
cede  Louisiana,  but  obliged  the  Spanish  minister  to  cede  Florida  also, 
without  sending  to  his  Court  for  fresh  orders,  and  the  preliminaries  were 
not  delayed  more  than  a  fortnight  by  the  demand  and  acquisition  of  that 
immense  territory." 

Mr.  Grenville,  shortly  previous  to  his  death,  introduced  the  act  for 
determining  controverted  elections,  from  a  thorough  conviction,  as  he 
declared  to  Mr.  Knox,  "  that  the  ruin  of  public  liberty  must  ensue,  unless 
some  check  was  given  to  the  abominable  prostitution  of  the  House  of 
Commons  in  elections,  by  voting  in  whoever  has  the  support  of  the  minis- 
ter." The  good  effects  of  this  excellent  act  is  on  all  sides  the  theme  of 
praise  so  often  as  a  controversy  occasions  the  necessity  for  an  appeal  to 
its  decision,  the  impartiality  of  which  has  hitherto  never  been  dis- 
puted. Edit. 

*  These  verses  were  written  by  the  present  Sir  John  Macpherson,  for- 
merly governor-general  of  India.  He  was  the  author  of  several  letters  in 
answer  to  Junius,  under  the  signature  of  Poetikastos.  The  lines  here  re- 
ferred to  were  as  follow: 

A  MOXODY; 
OR  THE  TEARS  OF  SEDITION*  ON  THE  DEATH  OF  JUNIUS. 
Shiis  tibi  Silure  furor? 
And  are  those  periods  fill'd  with  tuneful  care, 

Those  thoughts  which  gleam'd  with  Ciceronian  ore, 
Are  they,  my  Junius,  pass'd  like  vulgar  air, 
Droop'd  is  thy  plume,  to  rise  on  fame  no  more  ? 

Thy  plume! — it  was  the  harp  of  song  in  prose: 

Oft  have  its  numbers  sooth'd  the  felon's  ear, 
Oft  to  its  tune  my  Wilkite  heroes  rose 

With  couch'd  tobacco  pipes  in  act  to  spear. 

Where  now  shall  stormy  Clodius  and  his  crew, 

My  dear  assembly  of  the  midnight  hour, 
Ah!  where  acquire  a  trumpeter! — since  you 

No  more  shall  rouze  them  with  thy  classic  power. 

Accurs'd 


316  MISCELLANEOUS 

author  that  I  am  neither  a  partizan  of  Mr.  Wilkes,  nor  yet 

Accurs'd  Silurus!  blasted  be  thy  wing! 

That  grey  Scotch  wing  which  led  the  unerring  dart! 
In  virtue's  cause  could  all  that's  satire  sting 

A  bosom  with  corruption's  poison  fraught? 

Impossible! — then  hear  me,  Fiends  of  H — 11, 

This  dark  event,  this  mystery  unfold; 
Poison'd  was  Junius?  No;  "  Alas,  he  fell 

**  Midst  arrows  dipp'd  in  ministerial  gold." 

Then  hear  me,  rioters,  of  my  command, 

Condemn  the  villain  to  a  traitor's  doom; 
Let  none  but  faithful  knaves  adorn  my  band; 

Go,  sink  this  character  into  his  tomb. 

Here  sunk  an  essayist  of  dubious  name, 

Whose  tinsel'd  page  on  airy  cadence  run, 
Friendless,  with  party — noted,  without  fame, 

Virtue  and  vice  disclaim'd  him  as  a  son. 

POETIKASTOS- 

Clodius  and  Silurus,  mentioned  in  the  above  lines,  were  at  this  time 
frequent  writers  in  the  Public  Advertiser;  the  former  against  administra- 
tion, the  latter  in  favour  of  it.  Silurus,  assuming  a  personal  knowledge  of 
the  writer  of  the  Letters  of  Junius,  thus  describes  him. 

"I  know  Junius,  and  I  am  not  surprized  that  he  calls  aloud  for  blood. 
Bred  among  the  dregs  of  mankind,  he  imbibed  their  vices,  and  acquired 
that  hardness  of  he  .rt  which  is  usually  produced  by  crimes.  Possessed  of 
some  ambition,  versed  in  the  low  arts  of  adulation,  he  wrought  himself 
into  the  -confidence  of  the  vain  by  unmanly  flattery,  and  rose  from  ob- 
scurity by  means  which  dishonoured  his  patrons.  Smooth  in  his  lan- 
guage, he  gaint  d  the  ear  without  persuading  the  heart;  and  by  the  help 
of  a  good  memory,  some  anecdotes,  and  trite  observations,  acquired  the 
reputation  of  a  genius  among  some  slight  characters  in  the  literary  world. 
Dark,  cunning,  deceitfully  self-denied,  he  covered  himself  with  such  an 
appearance  of  openness  and  candour,  that  even  some  judges  of  human 
nature  thought  him  honest,  many  believed  him  honourable,  few  sus- 
pected the  soundness  of  his  head,  none  the  goodness  of  his  heart. 

"Such  was  Junius  before  public  business  called  forth  the  latent  and 
deformed  features  of  his  mind:  the  eal  man  stood  then  confessed;  his  spe- 
ciousness  was  found  to  be  a  mask  for  hypocrisy;  his  candour  a  veil  for  de- 
ceit; his  learning  discovered  to  be  mere  plagiarism;  his  boasted  parts  to 
consist  altogether  in  memory.  The  flimsy  affected,  though  unafteoting, 
superficialness  of  his  private  discourse  was  soon  traced  in  the  hollow  and 
round  periods  of  his  public  declamations.  Detestation  took  the  place  of 
esteem  in  the  minds  of  many,  hatred  took  possession  of  a  few,  and  a  con- 
tempt for  him  of  all.  Detected,  detested,  despised,  in  his  real  character, 
he  now  assumes  a  fictitious  name,  for  Junius  cannot  deceive,  but  where 
he  is  unknown. 

27  March,  17  69.  Sit  wurs." 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  317 

bought  off  by  the  ministry*.  It  is  true  I  have  refused  offers, 
which  a  more  prudent  or  a  more  interested  man  would  have 
accepted.  Whether  it  be  simplicity  or  virtue  in  me  I  can  only 
affirm  that  I  am  in  earnest^;  because  I  am  convinced,  as  far 
as  ray  understanding  is  capable  of  judging,  that  the  present 
ministry  are  driving  this  country  to  destruction;  and  you,  I 
think,  Sir,  may  be  satisfied  that  my  rank  and  fortune  place 
me  above  a  common  bribe. 

JUNIU3. 


LETTER  LV. 

TO  THE  RIGHT  HONOURABLE  THE  MARQUIS  OF  GRANBY. 
My  Lord,  6  May,  1769. 

You  were  once  the  favourite  of  the  public.  As  a  brave 
man  you  were  admired  by  the  army,  as  a  generous  man  you 
were  beloved.  The  scene  is  altered,  and  even  your  immedi- 
ate dependants,  who  have  profited  most  by  your  good-nature, 
cannot  conceal  from  you  how  much  you  have  lost  both  in  the 
affections  of  your  fellow-soldiers,  and  the  esteem  of  your 
country.  Your  character  once  spotless,  once  irreproachable, 
has  been  drawn  into  a  public  question;  attacked  with  seve- 
rity, defended  with  imprudence,  and,  like  the  seat  of  war, 
ruined  by  the  contention.  Profligate  as  we  are,  the  virtues 
of  the  heart  are  still  so  much  respected,  that  even  the  errors 
and  simplicity  of  a  good  man  are  sacred  against  censure  and 
derision.  To  a  man  of  your  lordship's  high  rank  and  for- 
tune, is  there  any  thing  in  the  smiles  of  a  court  that  can 
balance  the  loss  of  that  affection  (for  surely  it  was  something 
more  cordial  than  esteem)  with  which  you  were  universally 
received  upon  your  return  from  Germany?  You  were  then 
an  independent  gallant  soldier.  As  far  as  you  thought  pro- 
per to  mix  in  politics  you  were  the  friend  and  patron  of  the 
people.  Believe  me,  my  lord,  the  highest  rate  of  abilities 
could  never  have  given  you  a  more  honourable  station.  From 
the  moment  you  quitted  that  line,  you  have  perhaps  been 

*  To  the  Duke  of  Grafton.  Junius,  Letter  ix.  Edit. 
t  See  Private  Letters,  No.  63.  Edit. 


318  MISCELLANEOUS 

better  able  to  gratify  some  interested  favourites,  but  you 
have  disgraced  yourself,  and,  to  a  man  of  your  quality,  dis- 
grace is  ruin. 

You  are  now  in  the  lowest  rank  of  ministerial  dependants. 
Your  vote  is  as  secure  to  administration  as  if  you  were  a  lord 
of  trade,  or  a  vice-treasurer  of  Ireland,  and  even  Conway  at 
your  lordship's  expense  has  mended  his  reputation.  I  will 
not  enter  into  a  detail  of  your  past  conduct.  You  have  ene- 
mies enough  already,  and  I  would  not  wish  you  to  despair 
of  recovering  the  public  esteem.  An  opportunity  will  soon 
present  itself.  The  people  of  England  are  good-natured 
enough  to  make  allowances  for  your  mistakes,  and  to  give 
you  credit  for  correcting  them.  One  short  question  will  de- 
termine your  character  for  ever.  Does  it  become  the  name 
and  dignity  of  Manners  to  place  yourself  upon  a  level  with 
the  venal  tribe  who  vote  as  they  are  directed,  and  to  declare 
upon  your  honour,  in  the  face  of  your  country,  that  Mr. 
Luttrell  is  or  ought  to  be  the  sitting  member  for  the  county 
of  Middlesex*?  I  appeal,  bona  fide,  to  your  integrity  as  an 
honest  man,  I  even  appeal  to  your  understanding. 

YOUR  REAL  FRIEND. 


LETTER  LVI. 

TO    THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC  ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  6  June,  1769. 

i  wish  the  Duke  of  Grafton  had  thought  proper  to  take 
the  opinion  of  our  gracious  queen's  solicitor-generalf  before 
he  pardoned  Macquirk.  That  worthy  lawyer  is  never  at 
cross  purposes  with  himself,  and  I  dare  say  would  have  main- 
tained the  same  doctrine  in  his  closet  which  he  has  delivered 
for  the  instruction  of  the  public.  He  says  in  his  last  volume, 
page  12,  "  that  the  pains  of  death  ought  never  to  be  inflicted, 
but  when  the  offender  appears  incorrigible:  which  may  be 

*  For  an  explanation  of  the  subject  here  alluded  to,  see  Private  Let- 
ters, No.  2.  Edit. 

\  Sir  William  Blackstone.  For  the  detail  of  Macquirk's  crime  and  par- 
don, see  Junius's  Letters,  No.  vm.  Vol.  I.  p.  70.  Edit. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  319 

collected  either  from  a  repetition  of  minuter  offences,  or 
from  the  perpetration  of  some  one  crime  of  deep  malignity, 
which  of  itself  demonstrates  a  disposition  without  hope  or 
probability  of  amendment;  and  in  such  cases  it  would  be 
cruelty  to  the  public  to  defer  the  punishment  of  such  a  cri- 
minal, till  he  had  an  opportunity  of  repeating  perhaps  the 
worst  of  villanies." 

What  would  this  most  respectable  of  all  possible  lawyers 
have  thought  of  granting  a  pardon  to  a  culprit,  who  had  not 
only  been  convicted  of  a  repetition  of  offences,  and  those  not 
minute  but  atrocious,  but  who  had  actually  committed  mur- 
der? He  certainly  would  have  called  it  something  more  than 
cruelty  to  the  public.  His  knowledge  of  the  laws  would  have 
told  him  that  the  purpose  for  which  this  villain  was  employ- 
ed by  the  ministry,  was  treason  against  the  constitution*; 
that  it  was  the  highest  aggravation  of  the  crimes  he  commit- 
ted in  prosecution  of  it; — that  murder,  simply  considered,  is 
only  an  injury  to  the  individual  who  suffers;  or  in  the  most 
enlarged  sense,  to  society,  in  the  loss  of  one  of  its  members; 
— but  that  when  it  is  connected  with,  and  founded  on,  the 
idea  of  destroying  the  constitution  of  the  state  (which  as  far 
as  Mr.  Macquirk's  labours  could  be  supposed  to  operate 
was  certainly  the  case),  it  then  comprehends  every  quality, 
which  can  make  an  offence  of  this  sort  criminal  in  the  eye  of 
the  law;— the  injury  to  the  individual; — a  breach  of  the  pub- 
lic peace  and  security  in  a  civil  light;— and  a  violation  of 
that  political  system,  on  which  the  liberty  and  happiness  of 
the  community  depend.  Mr.  Blackstone  would  have  told 
the  fiery  duke,  that  to  pardon  such  an  offender  would  not 
only  be  a  most  scandalous  evasion  of  law  and  justice,  but 
the  grossest  insult  to  the  common  understanding  of  the 
nation. 

His  grace  must  then  have  applied  to  some  lawyer  of  a 
more  flexible  character.  There  is  a  man,  for  instance,  who 
seems  to  have  hoarded  up  a  treasure  of  reputation,  not  to 
last  him  through  life,  but  to  squander  away  at  one  moment, 

*  In  reference  to  Sir  W.  Blackstone's  opinion  relating  to  the  Middlesex 
election.  See  Junius,  No.  xvm.  Vol.  I.  p.  120.  Edit. 


320  MISCELLANEOUS 

with  a  foolish  indecent  prodigality; — who  is  not  ashamed  to 
maintain  an  oral  doctrine  directly  opposite  to  that  which  he 
had  written,  nor  to  deceive  the  representative  after  instruct- 
ing the  collective  body  of  the  nation.  This  man  would  wil- 
lingly have  accommodated  his  authority  to  the  purposes  of 
administration;  and  as  for  himself,  he  could  suffer  no  loss, 
for  which  the  vanity  of  an  author  would  not  have  sufficient- 
ly consoled  him.  The  respect  due  to  his  writings  will  proba- 
bly increase  with  the  contempt  due  to  his  character,  and 
his  works  will  be  quoted,  when  he  himself  is  forgotten  or 
despised. 

SIMPLEX. 


LETTER  LVII. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC  ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  10  June,  1769. 

I  am  an  old  reader  of  political  controversy.  I  remember 
the  great  Walpolean  battles;  and  am  not  a  little  diverted 
with  the  combats  of  party  at  this  time.  They  are  still  carried 
on  with  ability  and  vigour.  Long  habit  has  taught  me  to 
pass  by  all  the  declamation  with  which  the  champions  pa- 
rade. I  look  upon  it  as  no  better  than  those  flourishes  of 
the  back  sword  with  which  the  great  masters  of  my  time  in 
the  amphitheatre  entertained  the  spectators,  merely  to  shew 
their  dexterity,  but  which  made  no  part  of  the  real  engage- 
ment. I  regard  as  nothing  the  trappings  of  panegyric  with 
which  they  decorate  their  friends.  I  entirely  overlook  the 
dirt  with  which  they  so  very  liberally  bespatter  their  ene- 
mies. Whenever  a  fact  is  touched  upon,  there  I  fix.  When 
a  distinct  charge  is  made  upon  a  minister  I  look  for  a  dis- 
tinct and  particular  answer,  that  denies,  or  admitting,  ex- 
plains, or  in  some  favourable  manner  accounts  for  the  fact 
charged.  If  instead  of  this  I  find  nothing  more  than  a  long 
paper,  in  which  the  author  of  the  charge  is  called  a  thousand 
names,  and  the  person  accused  is  lifted  up  to  the  skies  as  a 
miracle  of  ability  and  virtue,  I  am  obliged,  as  an  equitable 
judge,  to  consider  the  cause  not  as  defended,  but  as  utterly 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS. 


321 


abandoned;  and  the  court  must  enter  an  admission  by  his 
own  advocates  of  the  charge  against  him. 

The  conduct  and  character  of  the  Duke  of  Grafton  have 
been  for  some  time  the  object  of  controversy.  In  what  man- 
ner have  they  been  attacked  and  defended?  Take  as  a  spe- 
cimen the  controversy  of  the  last  week.  Junius,  whom  the 
ministerial  writers  appear  very  much  to  dread,  and  affect 
very  much  to  despise,  has  made  several  particular  charges 
upon  his  grace.  In  one  column  I  will  state  the  charges,  in 
the  other  the  reader  will  see  the  answers,  and  he  will  there- 
by be  the  better  enabled  to  judge  of  the  spirit  in  which  this 
dispute  is  carried  on. 

Junius's  charges. 

First  fact. 

That  Lord  Chatham  was 
the  first  object  of  the  Duke 
of  Grafton's  political  attach- 
ment; yet  he  deserted  him 
and  entered  with  Lord  Rock- 
ingham into  an  administra- 
tion in  which  Lord  Chatham 
refused  to  engage. 
Second  fact. 

After  uniting  with  Lord 
Rockingham,  the  Duke  of 
Grafton  deserted  and  betray- 
ed him. 


Third  fact. 
That,  after  entering  again 
into  administration  with  Lord 
Chatham,  the  Duke  of  Graf- 

VOL.  II. 


Answer. 

The  wicked  for  the  sake 
of  mischief  approve  of  your 
bold  falsehoods,  and  the  en- 
vious love  a  strain  of  defa- 
mation, which  brings  down 
to  their  own  mean  level  the 
most  worthy  and  most  exalt- 
ed characters  in  the  nation. 
Answer. 

To  retaliate  upon  you  the 
abuse  which  you  have  pre- 
sumed to  throw  upon  the 
Duke  of  Grafton  would  be 
raising  you  into  a  conse- 
quence, to  which  the  mean- 
ness of  your  birth,  the  depra- 
vity of  your  heart,  and  the 
unsoundness  of  your  head, 
can  never  have  any  title. 
Anszver. 

By  specious  conversation 
you  imposed  upon  the  weak, 
by  open  and  impudent  flat- 
2S 


322 


MISCELLANEOUS 


ton  forced  him  (Lord  Cha-     tery  you   gained  the  confi- 

'  tham)  to  withdraw  his  name     dence  of  the  vain,  and  you 

from  it.  won  the  favour  of  the  proud 

by  mean  unmanly  sycophan- 
cy. 

Answer. 
Void  as  you  are  of  every 
sense  of  shame,  can  you 
without  a  blush  (but  a  blush 
seldom  tinges  those  happy 
countenances  which  have  been 


Fourth  fact. 
That  the  Duke  of  Grafton 
Is  chargeable  with  great  in- 
consistencies with  himself  in 
the  frequent  variations  in  his 
opinions   and    conduct   with 


Fifth  fact. 
The  Duke  of  Grafton  had 
been     the     friend    of     Mr. 
Wilkes,  and  is  become  his 
persecutor. 


regard  to  America,  according  bathed  in  the  LifFy),  can  you 
to  the  various  changes  he  has  recommend  to  the  people  of 
made  in  his  connections.  England,  as  ministers,  men, 

whose  weakness  or  villainy 
they  have  already  experi- 
enced in  office. 

Anstver. 
The  abilities, the  integrity, 
the  dignity  of  mind,  as  welt 
as  the  nobility  of  family  which 
distinguish  the  Duke  of  Graf- 
ton, have  rendered  him  supe- 
rior to  your  abuse. 
The  above  charges  are,  with  several  others,  to  be  found 
in  the  last  letter  of  Junius.   The  ministerial  advocate,  Ant't 
Malagrida* ,  has  since  addressed  a  letter  to  him,  in  which 
the  above  paragraphs,  in  the  second  column,  are  the  only 
answers  which  I   could  discover.    The  same  charges  had 
been  made  by  Junius  and  others  several  times  before.  Al- 
ways the  same  reply.  Junius,  and  many  others  say  (and  I 
fancy  they  speak  the  sense  of  the  nation),  that  the  Duke  of 
Graf  ion  imposes  upon  his  sovereign,  betrays  his  connections, 
persecutes  the  man  who  was  his  friend,  idly  irritates  the  co- 


*  A  writer  in  the  Public  Advertiser  in  favour  of  administration,  but 
whose  letters  do  not  appear  to  have  merit  enough  to  entitle  them  to  be 
reprinted.  Edit. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  323 

lonies,  wickedly  alienates  their  affections  from  their  mother 
country,  invades  the  liberties  of  the  people,  abuses  the  pre- 
rogative of  the  crown,  and  has  actually  subverted  the  consti- 
tution: and  when  Junius  civilly  asks  the  reason  of  ail  this — 
Sir,  (says  he)  you  are  a  rascal. 

Now,  Mr.  Woodfall,  I  shall  make  but  one  reflection,  and 
that  I  shall  borrow  from  Sir  John  Brute: — "  This  may  be 
a  very  good  answer  for  aught  I  know  at  cross-purposes,  but 
it  is  a  damned  whimsical  one  to  a  people  in  our  circum- 
stances." 

Yours,  &c. 

AMICUS  CURIA 


LETTER  LVIII. 

TO  THE   PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC  ADVERTISER. 
Mr.  Woodfall,  5  September,  1769. 

Amidst  the  great  number  of  correspondents  who  have 
raised  your  paper  to  a  superiority  over  the  rest,  I  don't  re- 
member to  have  observed  lately  any  of  the  female  sex.  To 
a  woman  of  spirit,  the  most  intolerable  of  all  grievances  is  a 
restraint  on  the  liberty  of  the  tongue.  I  can't  bear  to  see  the 
men  have  it  all  to  themselves;  and  shall  certainly  burst,  if  I 
am  not  permitted  to  put  in  a  word.  Much  has  been  said  of 
late  about  grievances  and  apprehensions,  instructions  and 
petitions,  elections  and  expulsions.  Now,  Sir,  I  want  to  en- 
ter the  list  with  one  of  the  most  celebrated  of  your  political 
correspondents:  here  I  throw  down  my  glove,  and  am  in 
hopes  it  will  be  taken  up  by — Junius.  Some  people  perhaps 
may  blame  me  for  meddling  with  politics,  a  science  fit  only 
for  the  men;  but  Junius  has  no  right  to  find  fault,  for  Junius 
has  been  the  aggressor,  by  making  such  frequent  incursions 
into  scandal  the  natural  province  of  the  women. 

However,  I  will  do  your  correspondent  Junius  the  jus- 
tice to  say,  that  I  think  him  a  very  fine  writer,  a  great  mas- 
ter of  composition,  and  indeed,  upon  the  whole,  I  have  not 
seen  a  prettier  fellow — upon  paper.  His  former  letters  have 
consisted  of  general  declamation  or  pointed  personal  abuse. 


« 


324  MISCELLANEOUS 

In  both  of  these  he  has  proved  himself  an  adept.  There  is  a 
great  deal  of  oratory  in  his  declamations,  though  he  is  per- 
haps too  flowery,  and  metaphorical,  and  seems  as  fond  of 
point  and  antithesis  a£  any  woman  is  of  point  lace  and  French 
silk.  As  to  his  personal  attacks,  they  are  irresistible;  no  cha- 
racter can  stand  before  him; — he  is  the  very  butcher  of  a  re- 
putation. "  Heaven  preserve  the  characters  of  all  my  tribe 
from  Junius!"  In  the  art  of  exaggeration  he  has  no  equal; 
molehills  he  magnifies  into  mountains,  and  views  your  small- 
est pecadillo  through  a  double  microscope.  Should  their  be 
the  least  spot  or  speck  on  your  reputation  Junius  can  spread 
it  out  (with  the  help  of  a  few  drops  of  ink),  till  it  covers  you 
all  over,  and  makes  you  as  black  as  a  fiend;  in  short  Junius 
is  chief  japanner,  or  calumniator-general  to  the  opposition: 
he  is  employed  to  besmear  the  ministry  with  his  very  best 
liquid  blacking,  and  when  he  has  written  them  out  of  office, 
he  will  no  doubt  change  his  colours,  take  a  different  brush, 
and  white-wash  their  successors.  I  wish  he  may  make  as 
distinguished  a  figure  in  the  sweet  work  of  panegyric  as  he 
has  done  in  the  painful  task  of  calumny  and  detraction! 

But  of  all  kinds  of  abuse,  private  scandal  seems  to  be 
his  favourite  morsel;  Junius  lays  hold  of  a  scandalous  anec- 
dote with  as  much  keenness  as  a  spider  seizes  an  unfortu- 
nate fl\ ;  he  crawls  forth  from  the  dark  hole  where  he  lay 
concealed;  how  eagerly  he  clutches  it;  with  what  a  malicious 
pleasure  he  drags  it  along;  his  eyes  gloat  upon  it  with  cruel 
delight;  he  winds  it  round  and  round  with  his  cobweb  rheto- 
ric, and  sucks  the  very  heart's  blood  of  family  peace! 

Various  have  been  the  conjectures  formed  on  the  question 
— "  Who  is  this  Junius?"  I  have  heard  at  least  twenty  per- 
sons named  whom  suspicion  points  the  finger  at;  nay,  I  have 
been  assured  at  different  times  that  each  of  them  was  the  au- 
thor in  question.  They  could  not  all  be  the  writer;  perhaps 
none  of  them  is. — But  in  spite  of  all  the  curiosity  which  is 
imputed  to  our  sex  I  declare  sincerely,  that  I  would  not  give 
a  pin  for  the  secret.  'Tis  indifferent  to  me  who  the  man  is; 
and  whether  he  was  first  dipped  in  the  Thames  or  the  Tweed, 
the  Liffy  or  the  Shannon. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  325 

But  though  I  can't  tell  who  Junius  is,  I  will  tell  you  what 
he  is  like.  Junius  is  like  a  racer  in  the  field  of  politics  who 
walks  over  the  course  alone;  no  one  venturing  to  start  against 
him.  I  have  for  some  time  had  a  violent  inclination  to  enter 
at  the  post,  although  I  am  sensible  the  odds  at  starting  would 
be  greatly  against  the  filly;  but  for  all  that  perhaps  I  should 
be  up  with  him  at  the  long-  run.  But  I  have  run  out  my  si- 
mile, and  therefore  must  beg  leave  to  take  a  fresh  one.  Tour 
paper,  Mr.  Woodfall,  is  become  the  grand  political  cockpit, 
and  Junius  struts  about  in  it  like  a  cock  whom  nobody  can 
match;  suppose  that  I  were  pitted  against  him;  how  do  you 
think  the  bets  would  go?  And  what  are  the  odds  that  he 
does  not  come  off  hen-pecked?  If  I  should  happen  to  get 
the  better  of  him  it  will  be  as  much  a  matter  of  public  won- 
der as  the  late  affair  of  the  hen  in  Scotland-yard,  who  "  at- 
tacked a  prodigious  large  rat  that  was  carrying  off  one  of  her 
chickens,  and  after  fighting  a  considerable  time  killed  the  rat 
to  the  great  joy  and  surprize  of  the  spectators."  And  be- 
sides how  great  will  be  the  honour  accruing  to  our  sex  from 
such  a  victory!  It  will  be  recorded  amongst  the  most  famous 
exploits  in  the  annals  of  female  prowess;  and  I  shall  be 
ranked  with  the  most  renowned  heroines  of  antiquity,  Tho- 
myris  and  Semiramis,  Judith  and  Deborah. 

But  perhaps  the  defeat  of  this  political  Holofernes  may 
not  be  so  very  difficult;  and  indeed  on  a  nearer  view  he  does 
not  appear  half  so  formidable.  When  Junius  stalked  upon 
the  heights  of  declamation  he  appeared  of  more  than  ordi- 
nary size,  but  now  that  he  has  descended  to  the  plain  ground 
of  reason  and  argument  'he  appears  nearly  on  a  level  with 
common  men.  His  letters  on  the  Middlesex  election  are 
most  sophistically  dull,  unless  where  he  throws  in  some  per- 
sonalities by  way  of  giving  spirit  and  flavour  to  his  political 
olio.  However  I  don't  believe  that  with  all  his  sophistry  he 
has  made  a  single  convert  to  his  opinion.  I  fancy  there  is 
hardly  one  cool,  moderate,  impartial  person  in  England  who 
does  not  think  that  the  House  of  Commons  are  the  only 
judges  of  their  own  privileges;  that  no  power  on  earth  can 
force  a  member  upon  them,  whom  they  have  declared  incapa- 


326  MISCELLANEOUS 

ble  of  being  elected;  and  that  if  any  person  under  such  known 
and  declared  incapacity  happens  to  have  the  greatest  number 
of  votes,  the  candidate  who  has  the  next  greatest  number  of 
legal  votes  must  of  course  be  the  sitting  member.  This  opi- 
nion seems  to  me  to  be  perfectly  agreeable  to  itiason,  to 
common  sense,  and  the  principles  of  the  constitution,  and 
(notwithstanding  the  delusive  appearance  of  petitions  ob- 
tained we  all  know  how)  I  do  verily  believe  it  is  the  opinion 
of  every  candid,  impartial,  unprejudiced  person  in  England; 
in  short,  of  all  those  who  are  not  the  tools  of  faction,  or  the 
dupes  of  party, 

I  am,  Sir, 

Your  humble  servant, 

J  UNI  A*. 


LETTER  LIX. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC    ADVERTISER. 
Snt,  7  September,  1769. 

I  find  myself  unexpectedly  married  in  the  newspapers 
without  my  knowledge  or  consent.  Since  I  am  fated  to  be  a 
husband,  I  hope  at  least  the  lady  will  perform  the  principal 
duty  of  a  wife.  Marriages,  they  say,  are  made  in  heaven, 
but  they  are  consummated  upon  earth;  and  since  Junia  has 
adopted  my  name,  she  cannot,  in  common  matrimonial  de- 
cency, refuse  to  make  me  a  tender  of  her  person.  Politics 
are  too  barren  a  subject  for  a  new  married  couple.  I  should 
be  glad  to  furnish  her  with  one  more  fit  for  a  lady  to  handle, 
and  better  suited  to  the  natural  dexterity  of  her  sex.  In  short 
if  Junia  be  young  and  handsome  she  will  have  no  reason  to 
complain  of  my  method  of  conducting  an  argument.  I  abo- 
minate all  tergiversation  in  discourse,  and  she  may  be  as- 
sured that  whatever  I  advance,  whether  it  be  weak  or  forci- 
ble, shall,  at  any  rate,  be  directly  in  point.  It  is  true,  I  am  a 
strenuous  advocate  for  liberty  and  property,  but  when  these 
rights  are  invaded  by  a  pretty  woman,  I  am  neither  able  to 

*  This  letter  was  claimed,  as  the  production  ofhis  own  pen,  by  the  latt 
Mr.  Caleb  Whitefoord.  Edit. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  327 

defend  my  money  nor  my  freedom.  The  divine  right  of 
beauty  is  the  only  one  an  Englishman  ought  to  acknowledge, 
and  a  pretty  woman  the  only  tyrant  he  is  not  authorized  to 

resist. 

JUNIUS*. 


LETTER  LX. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC  ADVERTISER. 
Mr.  Woodfall,  8  Sept.  1769. 

It  is  hard  to  determine  whether  the  actions  of  the  present 
ministry  more  excite  abhorrence  and  indignation,  or  the 
writings  of  their  advocates  contempt  and  ridicule:  every 
action  of  the  former  is  an  invasion  of  our  liberty  or  our  pro- 
perty; every  line  wrote  in  their  defence  by  the  latter  is  an 
insult  to  our  understanding,  and  a  base  mockery  of  our  suf- 
ferings. I  have  never  yet  known  a  bad  cause  made  better  by 
a  bad  defence.  I  cannot  conceive  what  induces  his  Grace  of 
Grafton  to  employ  such  a  set  of  wretches  to  laugh  at  us 
whilst  we  are  burning  at  the  stake  to  which  he  has  tied  us. 
It  is  as  void  of  policy  as  it  is  full  of  inhumanity.  Oppression 
is  more  easily  borne  than  insult;  and  the  Duke  of  Grafton, 
with  his  now  directors,  the  Bloomsbury  gang,  may  find  that 
it  is  dangerous  to  despise  those  whom  he  has  deeply  injured. 
Why  does  he  let  loose  upon  us  his  troops  of  fools  and  mad- 
men, and  buffoons  and  bullies?  He  would  do  more  wisely  to 
employ  them  in  their  proper  places,  reserving  them  to  excite 
the  mirth,  and  add  to  the  wit,  urbanity,  and  elegance  of  the 

*  Junius  repented  that  he  had  written  this  letter  a9  soon  as  it  had  ap- 
peared!  He  regarded  it  as  idle  and  improper;  and  it  was  on  this  occasion 
that  he  addressed  to  Mr.  Woodfall  the  private  note,  No.  8.  dated  10  Sept. 
1T61J;  in  consequence  of  which  the  following'  ohservation  appeared  in  the 
notice  to  correspondents  in  the  Public  Advertiser  of  11  Sept. 

"  We  have  some  reason  to  suspect  that  the  last  letter  signed  Junius, 
inserted  in  this  paper  of  Thursday  last,  was  not  written  by  the  real  Juni  us, 
though  we  imagine  it  to  have  been  sent  by  some  one  of  his  waggish  friends, 
uho  has  taken  great  pains  to  write  in  a  manner  similar  to  that  of  Junius, 
which  observation  escaped  us  at  that  time.  The  printer  takes  the  liberty 
to  hint  that  it  will  not  do  a  second  time."  Edit. 


328  MISCELLANEOUS 

midnight  festivity  of  his  kindred  and  friends  Weymouth, 
Gower,  and  Rigby  at  Bedford-house. 

If  the  freeholders  of  this  county,  alarmed  at  the  invasion 
of  their  last  and  dearest  right,  the  freedom  of  election,  beg 
in  the  humblest  terms  for  redress,  Poetikastos  dances  before 
them  in  a  fool's  coat,  squirts  dirty  water  in  their  facts,  and 
then  cries  out  to  the  great  joy,  and  with  the  loud  applause 
of  the  gang, — "  You  are  redressed."  To  every  other  com- 
plaint, whether  of  the  disgraces  which  we  suffer  abroad,  or 
of  the  oppressions  which  we  feel  at  home;  whether  the  cry 
be  for  property  ravished  from  us,  for  our  liberties  infringed, 
for  the  laws  perverted,  for  the  constitution  overturned,  we 
have  much  the  same  answer.  Silurus  is  let  loose  from  his 
cell  to  vent  his  madness,  and  cover  us  with  his  filth.  Pericles* 
stands  by  him  calling  out  rogue  and  scoundrel;  and  then  with 
One  voice  the  minister  who  employs,  and  the  wretches  who 
are  employed,  cry  out, — "  We  have  defeated  them;  they 
never  dare  appear  again;  we  have  hanged  them  up  to  pub- 
lic scorn;  you  are  a  coward,  cries  one;  I  will  cudgel  you, 
says  another;  I  will  lay  you  a  bet  of  14,000  guineas,  bawls  a 
thirdf." 

Does  the  Duke  of  Grafton  really  think  that  such  actions 
as  his  are  sufficiently  defended  by  such  arguments  as  these? 
Are  those  the  lawyers  whom  he  has  retained  against  that 
dreadful  day — for  that  day  will  come — when  a  brave,  a 
haughty,  and  a  spirited,  though  patient,  people  shall  demand 
vengeance  on  his  head  for  all  the  disgraces  and  injuries 
which  he  has  heaped  upon  theirs?  Are  these  to  be  his  inter- 
cessors to  a  misguided  and  betrayed  king  for  mercy?  Enjoy 
with  your  associates,  my  lord,  their  buffoonery  and  their 

*  J'oetikastos,  Silurus,  and  Pericles  were  writers  in  the  Public  Advertiser 
in  favour  of  administration.  Edit. 

f  A  challenge  had  been  absurdly  given  to  Junius  by  several  writers  in 
the  Public  Advertiser,  as  well  as  by  Sir  William  Draper;  and  one  corres- 
pondent, as  here  referred  to,  had  the  egregious  foil)  to  propose  a  bet  of 
14,000  guineas,  being,  as  he  stated,  his  whole  fortune,  "  that  he  could  pro- 
duce- in  six  months  a  counter-petition,  signed  by  4,0^0  freeholders,  all  men 
of  sense,  begging  his  majesty  to  confine  the  ringleaders  of  the  opposition, 
and  bind  them  over  to  their  good  behaviour."  Edit. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  329 

scurrility  whilst  you  may:  the  day  is  not  far  off — if  the  Al- 
mighty has  not  in  his  wrath  given  up  this  country  to  that 
worst  of  punishments,  that  most  intolerable  of  all  tyrannies 
the  government  of  insolence  without  spirit,  violence  without 
vigour,  ambition  without  dignity,  obstinacy  without  resolu- 
tion, and  ignorance  without  diffidence. — The  day  is  not  far 
off  when  these  insults  will  be  retorted  most  severely,  and 
humanity  itself  will  not  be  able  to  keep  them  from  your  head, 
though  that  head  should  be  on  the  block. 

AUGUR. 


LETTER  LXI. 

TO   HIS  GRACE  THE  DUKE  OF  GRAFTON*. 
My  Lord,  10  November,  1769. 

The  facility  with  which  you  abandoned  your  earliest  con- 
nections in  friendship  and  politics,  was,  I  doubt  not,  a  lead- 
ing recommendation  to  establish  your  credit  at  St.  James's. 
A  gracious  discerning  prince,  who,  even  at  the  moment  of 
his  accession,  had  fortitude  enough  to  get  the  better  of  every 
predilection  which  he  might  be  supposed  to  have  inherited 
fnm  his  ancestors  in  favour  of  the  friends  of  the  House  of 
Hanover,  must  have  observed  with  pleasure  that  your  grace 
was  equally  ready  to  desert  the  friends  who  contributed  most 
to  your  advancement,  and  to  adopt  new  principles  of  govern- 
ment. I.  will  not  complain  of  a  change  of  system,  for  which 
you  had  so  powerful  a  precedent,  and  which  you  have  found 
so  favourable  to  your  ambition.  But  there  are  rules  of  de- 
cency, my  lord,  which  a  wiser  man  would  have  observed, 
even  in  the  grossest  violation  of  morals.  There  is  a  certain 
sort  of  hostilities  wh,ich  is  forbidden  by  the  laws  of  war  be- 
tween nations,  and  by  the  laws  of  enmity  between  individuals. 

*  This  letter  was  printed  by  the  desire  of  Junius  in  the  Public  Adver- 
tiser, but  was  not  written  by  him.  See  Private  Letter,  No.  11.  It  was, 
however,  so  generally  supposed  to  have  been  his,  that  Junius  himself 
thought  it  necessary  to  request  the  printer  to  publish  the  following  con- 
tradiction in  the  same  journal,  Nov.  17.  "  We  can  assure  the  public  that 
the  letter  signed  A.  B.  relative  to  the  Duke  of  Rutland  is  not  written  by 
the  author  of  Junius."  Edit. 

Vol.  II.  2  T 


330  MISCELLANEOUS 

The  contentions  of  party  have  given  a  fashionable  latitude  to 
the  principles  of  modern  morality;  but  still,  my  lord,  there 
are  some  characters  too  great  and  venerable  to  be  insulted; 
there  is  yet  a  certain  breach  of  decorum,  which  the  public 
will  not  submit  to.  Was  the  Duke  of  Rutland  the  only  man 
in  this  country,  at  whose  expense  you  could  gratify  Lord 
Denbigh?  One  would  think,  my  lord,  that  if  his  uniform  ad- 
herence to  the  principles  of  the  revolution,  his  steady  attach- 
ment to  the  House  of  Hanover,  and  the  important  services 
which  he  and  his  family  have  rendered  to  that  house  could 
possibly  be  forgotten,  there  was  yet  something  in  his  age, 
his  rank,  his  personal  character,  and  private  virtues,  which 
might  have  entitled  him  to  respect.  Was  it  necessary,  my 
lord,  to  pursue  him  into  his  own  county  on  purpose  to  insult 
him?  Was  it  proper,  was  it  decent,  that  while  a  Duke  of  Rut- 
land is  lord  lieutenant,  the  Earl  of  Denbigh's  recommenda- 
tion should  govern  the  county  of  Leicester*?  Had  Lord 
Denbigh  no  friends  in  Leicestershire  but  rank  tories  to  re- 
commend for  the  commission  of  the  peace?  And  is  it  under 
a  prince,  who  owes  his  crown  to  the  whig  interest  of  England, 
that  a  minister  dares  to  send  such  a  mandate  to  the  Duke  of 
Rutland?  I  know  his  grace's  spirit,  and  doubt  not  of  his  re- 
turning you  an  answer  proper  for  you  and  for  himself. 

United  as  you  are,  my  lord,  with  men  whose  concern  for 
the  safety  of  the  church,  and  whose  zeal  for  the  prerogative 
of  the  crown  has  been  so  often  unluckily  mistaken  for  simple 
jacobitism,  I  take  for  granted  you  are  as  well  acquainted 
with  their  history,  as  with  their  principles.  You  are  able  to 
tell  us,  and  surely  the  public  has  a  right  to  expect  it  from 
you,  by  what  species  of  merit  the  Earl  of  Denbigh  has  con- 
trived to  make  himself  so  distinguished  a  favourite  at  court. 
Was  it  the  notorious  attachment  of  his  family  to  the  House 
of  Hanover,  or  his  own  personal  accomplishments?  Was  it 

*  It  refers  to  certain  justices  of  the  peace  having  been  made  at  the  re- 
quest of  Lord  Denbigh,  by  a  commission  of  the  Lord  Chancellor  (Cam- 
den), and  others,  for  the  county  of  Leicester,  without  consulting  the  Duke 
of  Rutland,  who  was  lord  lieutenant,  and  who,  ex  officio,  ought  to  have  been 
honoured  with  the  nomination.  Edit. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  331 

his  fortune  that  made  him  respectable,  or  his  beggary  that 
made  him  submissive?  Was  it  the  generous  exertion  of  his 
great  abilities  in  parliament,  or  the  humble  assiduity  of  his 
attendance  at  Lord  Bute's  levee?  Was  it  the  manly  firmness 
of  his  personal  appearance,  or  the  pliant  politeness  of  his 
temper?  Was  it  the  independent  dignity  with  which  he  main- 
tains the  rank  of  a  peer,  or  the  complaisance  with  which  he 
accepts  and  executes  the  honourable  office  of  a  spy?  What- 
ever have  been  his  merits  or  services,  they  are  undoubtedly 
of  a  complexion  very  different  from  those  of  the  Duke  of 
Rutland. 

His  grace  has  now  wisely  exchanged  that  busy  scene,  in 
which  he  never  appeared  but  with  honour,  for  an  hospitable 
retirement.  His  age  will  not  permit  us  to  hope  that  he  can 
long  be  the  object  of  the  spite  of  such  a  creature  as  Lord 
Denbigh,  nor  of  the  scorn  and  insult  of  such  a  minister  as 
your  grace.  But  he  will  leave  a  family,  my  lord,  whose  prin- 
ciples of  freedom  are  hereditary,  from  whose  resentment  you 
will  have  every  thing  to  apprehend.  As  for  himself,  I  shall 
only  say,  that  if  it  were  possible  for  the  views  and  wishes  of 
the  tories  to  succeed;  if  it  were  possible  for  them  to  place  a 
Stuart  once  more  upon  the  throne,  their  warmest  hopes  and 
ambition  might  be  disappointed.  He  too,  like  another  judi- 
cious prince,  might  think  it  the  best  policy  of  his  govern- 
ment to  choose  his  friends  and  favourites  from  among  the 
declared,  notorious,  determined  enemies  of  his  family.  The 
tories  who  placed  him  upon  the  throne,  might  be  driven  dis- 
gracefully from  his  presence;  and,  upon  the  same  principle, 
I  challenge  your  grace  to  point  out  a  man  more  likely  to  be 
invited  to  the  place  of  first  minister  and  favourite  than  the 

Duke  of  Rutland. 

A.  B*. 

*  The  above  letter,  though  avowedly  not  from  the  pen  of  Junius,  was 
reprinted  in  the  Public  Advertiser  from  another  journal  at  his  request.  It 
was  replied  to  a  few  days  afterwards  by  the  letter  that  follows:  to  withhold 
which  would  be  an  act  of  injustice.  Edit. 


332  MISCELLANEOUS 


LETTER  LXII. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  17  November,  1769. 

Junius  may  change  his  signature,  his  rrianner  he  cannot 
change.  The  farfetched  antithesis,  the  empty  period,  the  pert 
loquacity  distinguish  the  writer;  and  the  rancorous  and  im- 
pudent falsehood  discovers  the  man.  In  vain  has  he  attempt- 
ed to  conceal  himself  under  initials;  he  is  as  invariable  in  the 
tenor  of  his  diction  as  he  is  in  the  bias  of  his  mind.  It  was, 
however,  a  mark  of  some  judgment  in  Mr.  ■  to  use  a  new 
signature  in  your  paper  of  Friday.  A.  B.  may  praise  the 
Duke  of  Rutland,  though  Junius  has  infamously  traduced 
the  Marquis  of  Granby*.  Bv  a  mean  subterfuge  an  appear- 
ance of  propriety  may  be  preserved  among  the  superficial; 
but  the  generous  and  discerning  must  despise  and  detest  a 
man  who  makes  the  interests  of  a  profligate  party  the  only 
standard  by  which  he  regulates  his  encomium  as  well  as  his 
abuse. 

But  to  set  the  public  right  in  a  matter  of  fact  is  the  only 
design  of  this  letter.  The  insertion  of  particular  persons  by 
mandate,  without  issuing  a  new  commission  of  the  peace, 
has  been  in  daily  practice;  and  is  an  undoubted  power  lodged 
in  the  great  seal;  but  in  that  alone;  nor  can  any  other  servant 
of  the  crown  interfere  no  more  than  in  a  decree  of  that  great 
officer,  the  chancellor  in  the  court  of  chancery. 

The  principles  of  that  noble  lord  are  as  well  known  as  those 
of  the  remainder  of  the  king's  ministers,  who,  notwithstand- 
ing every  aspersion  to  the  contrary  from  factious  artifices, 
hav «  on  every  occasion  proved  themselves  to  be  the  suppor- 
ters of  the  real  liberty  of  the  people,  and  of  the  true  spirit  of 
the  constitution. 

Has  (he  lord  chancellor  in  any  instance  deviated  from  such 
a  character?   And  yet  if  Junius,  or  his  shadow  A.  B.  were 

*  The  duke  and  marquis  were  related,  as  being  both  of  the  Manners 
family. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  333 

rights  this  noble  lord  would  be  termed  a  jacobite:  for  if  there 
is  any  thing  improper  in  the  appointment,  he  is  the  man  who 
should  be  charged,  and  not  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  on  whom 
calumny  endeavours  to  fix  the  mistakes  of  others. 

Junius,  in  his  zeal  for  his  party,  defeats  the  means  he  uses 
to  serve  them.  Unfortunately  for  his  cause,  the  attacks  he 
makes  upon,  and  his  charges  against  the  Duke  of  Grafton  re- 
quire only  to  be  fairly  stated  to  confute  themselves;  and  thus 
(I  will  do  him  the  justice  to  suppose),  without  design  he  be- 
comes the  panegyrist  of  a  character  he  wishes  to  ruin  in  the 
eyes  of  the  world. 

I  am,  Sir, 

Your  humble  servant, 

MESSALA*. 


LETTER  LXIII. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC  ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  17  November,  1769. 

I  will  not  pretend  to  say  that  the  inclosed  letter  is  a  very 
severe  libel  on  its  right  honourable  author!  And  yet,  Mr. 
Woodfall,  you  may  safely  print  it;  for  though  we  have  laws 
against  self-murder,  there  are  none  against  self-libelling. 

A  curious  collection  of  correspondence,  both  political  and 
amorous,  has  lately  fallen  into  my  hands,  with  which  I  shall 
from  time  to  time  furnish  you,  reserving  the  most  extraor- 
dinary of  both  kinds  till  the  last,  pour  la  bonne  bouche. 

X.  X.f 

*  To  this  letter  A.  B.  gave  an  answer,  but  as  it  decidedly  was  not  written 
by  Junius,  we  have  omitted  it.  Edit. 

f  Mr.  Onslow  was  at  this  time  persecuting  Wilkes  with  all  the  acri- 
mony in  his  power,  in  unison  with  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  both  of  whom  had 
a  few  ye^rs  before  professed  the  warmest  friendship  for  Wilkes  Mr. 
Home,  not  then  at  enmity  with  Wilkes,  had  just  published  the  following 
letter,  of  a  similar  kind  of  which  Wilkes  had  given  him  a  copy: 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 

Sir,  14;/H,  1769. 

Many  of  your  readers  having  seen  an  abuse  on  Mr.  Home,  for  the  pub- 
lication of  a  letter  from  Mr.  Onslow  to  Mr.  Wilkes,  are  desirous  of  seeing 
that  original.  copy 


334  MISCELLANEOUS 

My  dear  Wilkes, 
I  AM  very  sorry  to  have  been  prevented  seeing  you  to- 
day; but  I  hope  to  have  a  good  account  of  you  b)  the  return 
of  my  servant  who  brings  you  this:  perhaps  you  may  be  bet- 

Copy  of  a  Letter  from  George  Onslow,  Esq.  to  John  Wilkee,  Esq. 

Ember  Court,  21  September,  1765. 

MY    DEAR    OLD    FRIEND, 

Having  been  most  shamefully  silent  to  you  during  the  remainder  of 
an  opposition  which  did  honour  to  every  man  concerned  in  it,  and  to  the 
credit  of  which  you  so  much  contributed,  I  now  begin  my  correspondence 
with  you,  at  my  first  entering  into  office  with,  and  under,  an  administra- 
tion, whose  principles,  I  hope,  and  believe,  will  authorize  your  giving 
equal  support  to,  in  their  very  different  situation.  If  they  did  not,  as  I 
know  they  do,  revere  and  hold  sacred  those  sentiments  they  avowed 
during  the  two  last  years,  and  in  abhorrence  those  vile  and  detestable 
ones  of  persecution  and  injustice,  by  which  the  public  were  so  injured  in 
your  person,  I  should  be  ashamed  of  what  I  am  now  proud  of — bearing 
the  small  share  I  do  among  them. — Public  marks  of  this,  as  well  as  pri- 
vate ones,  I  hope  will  soon  take  place. 

Honest  Humphrey  has  dined  with  me  here  to-day,  and  we  have  just 
drank  your  health,  as  we  have  often  clone.  Honest  as  he  is,  I  never  felt 
him  more  so  than  your  last  letter  to  him,  which  he  has  just  now  shewed 
me,  has  made  him  appear  to  me,  in  having  done  justice  to  my  very  sincere 
and  constant  regards  to,  and  admiration  of  you.  Every  word  of  this  letter 
of  yours  (dated  the  26  Aug.  from  Geneva)  I  subscribe  to,  and  think  and 
persuade  myself  the  completion  of  our  patriot,  not  selfish,  wishes  (for 
such  they  are  not)  will  soon  appear  among  many  other  proofs  of  integrity, 
steadiness,  and  virtue,  in  the  present  ministry,  and  of  their  being  as  ini- 
mical as  ever  to  those  whom  they  have  been  opposing,  for  having  acted 
contrary  to  all  these  principles. 

Your  friend  Mrs.  Onslow  has  been  enjoying  with  us,  in  infinite  mirth, 
your  last  specimens  of  notes  on  different  parts  of  great  Churchill's  works, 
viz.  Hogarth,  Talbot,  and  the  scoundrel  Bishop.  They  are  specimens  in- 
deed of  your  amazing  wit  and  abilities;  and  when  he  has  more  of  them  he 
has  promised  me  a  copy. 

Believe  me,  my  dear  John,  your  mentioning  me  as  you  do  gratifies  my 
pride,  as  it  will  always  do  to  shew  myself  your  friend  and  humble  ser- 
vant. I  was  always  so  as  a  public  and  as  a  private  man.  Our  good  friend 
Humphrey  and  I  are  at  this  moment  in  your  service,  and  from  us  both 
you  shall  soon  hear,  particularly  as  to  the  contents  of  your  letter  of  the 
26th.  I  beg  you  to  believe  that  I  most  truly  and  affectionately  am  your 
Faithful,  humble  servant, 

Geo.  Onslow. 
Postscript.   Postpone  your  judgment  till  you  hear  again  from  me,  on 
what  I  lament  as  much  as  you  can  do,  and  think  of  as  you  do, — Mr.  Pitt 
and  Lord  Temple's  being  not  in  employment.  Edit. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  335 

ter  if  more  of  our  friends  besides  myself  have  missed 
troubling  you  to-day;  as  I'm  sure  quiet  and  keeping  down 
your  wonderful  flow  of  spirits  must  do  you  good.  To  mo3t 
men  in  your  situation  such  a  caution  would  surely  be  need- 
less, because  men  of  less  greatness  of  mind,  and  of  a  less 
noble  spirit  than  yourself,  would  yield  to  such  a  load  of  dam- 
nable persecution,  from  the  most  dangerous  administration 
that  ever  was  in  this  country.  But  honest  men  like  yourself 
know  how  to  despise  it  and  them,  and  to  rise  superior  to 
them  all. 

If  I  had  a  mind  to  raise  your  indignation  I  would  bid  you 
think  of  the  similarity  of  these  times  to  those  you  and  I  have 
talked  of  with  abhorrence;  but  as  I  mean  always  to  add  to 
your  comfort  and  satisfaction,  I  will  desire  you  to  think  of 
the  similarity  of  your  own  circumstances  to  those  of  the 
many  great  and  good  men  that  lived  in  those  times,  and  suf- 
fered as  you  do  now.  Remember  how  greatly  they  were 
thought  of,  and  how  their  characters  arc  respected  now,  and 
remember,  and  be  assured  to  your  comfort,  that  let  the  iron 
hand  of  power  fall  ever  so  heavy  on  you  (it  can't  fall  very 
heavy  from  your  innocence)  every  honest  man,  and  every 
gentleman,  must  bestow  the  same  degree  of  applause  on  you 
as  they  must  of  abhorrence  and  detestation  on  your  and  their 
country's  enemies.  I  will  certainly  call  on  you  to-morrow 
morning  or  evening.  I  have  nothing  new  to  send  you.  I 
hope  it  is  not  so  to  you  that  I  am  unalterably, 

Dear  Wilkes, 
Your  faithful  and  affectionate 
Curzon-street,  Monday  nighr,  humble  servant, 

21  Nov.  1763.  GEORGE  ONSLOW. 

Mrs.  Onslow  sends  you  her  comps.  I  wish  you  would  ap- 
point honest,  faithful  Humphrey  to  meet  me  at  your  house 
precisely  at  one  o'clock  on  Wednesday.  I  have  a  thousand 
things  to  say  to  him. 


336  MISCELLANEOUS 

LETTER  LXIV. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  20  Nov.  1769. 

I  cannot  but  admire  the  easy  assurance  with  which  that 
modest  gentleman,  who  writes  for  the  Gazetteer,  informs  us 
that  he  has  gained  a  complete  victory  over  Junius.  It  is  not 
the  first  time  that  the  silence  and  moderation  of  Junius  have 
been  mistaken  for  submission,  nor  is  this  the  first  block- 
head who  has  plumed  himself  upon  an  imaginary  triumph 
over  the  favourite  of  the  public. — I  wish,  however,  if  he  be 
in  the  secret,  that  he  would  tell  us  plainly  whether  the  offi- 
cers of  the  guards  are  to  be  tried  or  not?  If  they  are  not,  the 
observations,  made  by  Junius  upon  the  conduct  of  the  minis- 
try, return  with  double  force.  If  they  are,  Junius  is  right, 
and  acts  honourably  in  not  pushing  his  inquiries  farther*. 
As  to  the  facts,  it  is  unnecessary  for  him  to  say  any  thing 
in  support  of  them.  They  are  so  notorious,  that  the  parlies 
themselves  cannot,  dare  not  deny  them.  If  Captain  Garth 
did  not  wilfully  abandon  his  guard  why  does  he  not  demand 
a  court-martial  to  clear  his  character?  And  would  not  the 
ministry,  for  their  own  credit,  take  care  that  Captain  Dodd 
should  be  brought  to  a  trial  if  they  were  not  absolutely  cer- 
tain that  a  court-martial  must  cashier  them?  Truly,  Sir, 
these  gentlemen  have  a  bitter  enemy  in  Modeatus.\  It  ap- 
pears to  me  that  he  has  some  secret  rancour  against  them, 
which  nothing  can  satisfy  but  the  loss  of  their  commissions. 

X.  X. 

*  Junius,  in  Private  Letters,  No.  11.  assigns  the  following  reason  for 
thus  declining  it:  "  The  only  thing  that  hinders  my  pushing  the  subject 
of  my  last  letter  is  reall)  the  fear  of  ruining  that  poor  devil  Gansel,  and 
those  other  blockheads."  Edit. 

f  Modestus,  as  before  observed,  was  a  Mr.  Dairy niple,  a  Scotch  lawyer. 
— Erit. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  337 


LETTER  LXV. 


TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 

Sir,  23  Nov.  1769. 

Junius  and  his  journeymen  have  engrossed  the  whole  al- 
phabet; but  from  A.  B.  to  X.  X.  the  style  and  manner  of  the 
shop  are  easily  discovered.  From  alpha  to  omega,  the  same 
attention  to  a  period,  and  the  same  neglect  of  good  sense, 
manners,  and  propriety.  However,  Mr.  X.  X.  in  to-day's 
Public  Advertiser  has  even  out  Heroded  Herod.  It  was  cer- 
tainly unpardonable  presumption  in  the  modest  gentleman 
who  writes  for  the  Gazetteer  to  assume  the  merit  of  a  victory 
over  the  young  gentleman  who  writes  for  the  Public  Adver- 
tiser. But  Te  Deums  have  been  sung  before  on  as  slender 
foundations.  The  voung  gentleman  with  that  fire  and  spirit 
which  accompanies  green  years  threw  down  his  glove  to  the 
world,  and  challenged  all  mankind  to  contradict  the  truth  of 
certain  facts,  or  the  justice  of  certain  observations.  He  pro- 
posed, if  not  a  reward  to  the  champion  who  should  vanquish 
him,  at  least  a  punishment  to  himself  if  vanquished;  nor  that 
a  slight  one,  if  he  were,  as  X.  X.  says  he  is,  the  favourite  of 
the  public.  The  modest  gentleman  ventured  to  take  up  the 
glove,  and  with  a  boldness  not  very  consistent  with  his 
name,  demonstrated  that  the  narrative  was  false  in  every 
circumstance  material  to  the  question;  and  the  observations 
not  only  ridiculous  in  the  view  of  supporting  the  conclusion 
attempted  to  be  drawn,  but  in  a  supreme  degree  injudicious 
to  the  cause  they  were  intended  to  promote. 

To  this  Junius,  with  prudence  beyond  his-.years,  makes 
no  reply,  and  Modestus,  after  a  decent  forbearance,  presumes 
to  put  him  in  mind  of  his  challenge.  This  produced  the  letter 
signed  Junius,  in  your  paper  one  day  last  week;  in  which,  to 
speak  negatively,  he  neither  supports  the  truth  of  his  narra- 
tive, or  the  justice  of  his  observations,  and  in  which  to  speak 
positively,  he  gives  up  both.  Not  fairly,  nor  with  the  can- 
dour of  a  gentleman,  who  is  convinced  of  his  rash  and  dan- 

VOL.  II.  2  U 


338  MISCELLANEOUS 

gerous  mistake;  bin  with  the  struggles  and  evasions  of  a 
culprit  who  is  convicted  of  a  crime. 

Upon  this  true  state  of  the  dispute,  Modestus  most  impu- 
dently assumed  to  himself  ihe  victory;  and  I  must  confess 
he  seemed  to  have  the  appearance  of  a  claim  to  it.  But  Mr. 
X.  X  has  clearly  demonstrated  the  contrary;  and  the  method 
this  honourable  gentleman  has  taken  to  chain  victory  to  the 
triumphant  car  of  the  public's  favourite  adds  greatly  to  his 
merit. 

A  person  of  vulgar  understanding  would  have  descended 
into  a  tedious  detail;  he  would  have  endeavoured  to  shew 
by  argument  and  fact  that  Junius  was  in  the  right,  and  Mo- 
destus in  the  wrong.  But  Mr.  X.  X.  another  Alexander,  cuts 
tht  Gordian  knot  at  once,  and  annihilates  the  pretensions  of 
Modestus  with  a  single  word.  There  is  so  much  energy,  so 
much  eloquence,  so  much  of  the  polite  scholar,  the  gentle- 
man, and  the  patriot,  in  the  term  blockhead,  that  if  Modestus 
possesses  but  a  shadow  of  what  its  name  imports,  he  must 
fairly  confess  himself  routed;  and  instead  of  Te  Deum  I 
would  advise  him  to  sing  De  projundis. 

It  was  to  be  sure  the  height  of  insolence  in  Modestus  to 
attack  the  favourite  of  the  public;  but  it  may  be  pleaded  in 
his  excuse,  that  the  public  has  several  favourites  who  are 
shrewdly  suspected  to  be  unworthy  of  its  favour,  and  Junius 
has  staked  and  forfeited  that  favour  of  which  he  had  much 
reason  to  be  proud.  But  pray  Mr.  X.  X.  have  not  you  been 
guilty  of  a  trifling  error  by  substituting  the  public  in  place 
of  the  mob?  You  wish  to  know  whether  the  officers  are  to 
be  tried  or  not.  For  answer  give  me  leave  to  ask  you  whether 
you  have  lenned  to  read?  Had  that  essential  part  of  your 
education  been  attended  to,  you  would  not  have  been  so  ig- 
norant of  what  has  been  explained  again  and  again,  and  you 
would  not  have  been  so  illiberal  to  imagine  you  could  better 
a  bad  cause  by  calling  names;  an  argument  which  deserves 
no  answer  but  the  strapado. 

But  your  education  did  not  depend  on  yourself,  and  per- 
haps you  are  left-handed,  which  I  have  been  told  by  many 
intelligent  Hibernians,  your  countrymen,  is  an  insurmount- 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  339 

able  bar  to  scholarship:  yet  common  sense  is  the  portion  of 
the  unlearned  as  well  as  of  the  learned,  and  though  vou  may 
be  but  an  indifferent  scholar,  there  was  no  occasion  to  insult 
her  in  the  way  vou  have  done.  The  world  hitherto  has  be- 
lieved that  Junius  was  rather  unfriendly  to  the  officers  con- 
cerned in  General  Gansel's  rescue,  when  he  publicly  aggra- 
vated their  offence  from  a  common  breach  of  the  peace  to  an 
outrage  against  the  constitution;  and  it  believed,  that  Modes- 
tus was  not  their  enemy  for  endeavouring  to  shew  that 
Junius  was  in  the  wrong,  and  representing  all  the  circum- 
stances of  excuse  which  the  nature  of  the  case  afforded.  But 
here  also  Mr.  X.  X.  has  convinced  the  world  of  its  mistake: 
and  it  stands  on  his  infallible  authoritv,  that  Junius  is  a 
faithful  friend  to  these  officers,  and  Modestus  a  rancorous 
and  inveterate  enemy,  whom  nothing  can  satisfy  but  the  loss 
of  their  commissions.  The  force  of  genius  is  certainly  won- 
derful! It  discovers  in  propositions  the  very  reverse  of  what 
they  contain.  But  Mr.  X.  X.  when  you  address  the  public 
again,  remember,  that  though  paradoxes  astonish,  they  do 
not  convince  against  evidence. 

However,  we  are  but  seconds  in  the  quarrel  between  Mo- 
destus and  Junius,  and  we  ought  not  to  suffer  our  principals 
to  proceed  to  extremities.  To  soften  the  rancour  of  their 
contention,  I  would  propose  that  some  friendlv  unfriendly 
greeting  (as  Shakespeare  calls  it),  should  pass  between  them. 
They  need  not  exchange  armour  like  Glaucus  and  Diomede 
(an  example  which  would  afford  me  many  choice  allusions 
if  J  had  time  to  pursue  the- m),  but  they  may  exchange  names. 
The  propriety  of  this  no  man  can  dispute,  for  even  X.  X. 
will  agree  with  me,  that  Modestus  is  a  little  young,  and  Ju- 
nius not  a  little  modest. 

I  am,  Sir, 

Your  humble  servant, 

Y.  Y 


;4Q  MISCELLANEOUS 


LETTER  LXVI. 


TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  25  November,  1769. 

For  answer  to  my  last  letter,  in  which  I  asked  a  very- 
plain  question,  viz.  Whether  the  officers  of  the  guards  were 
or  were  not  to  be  tried  for  the  rescue  of  General  Gansel?— - 
your  correspondent  T,  T.  contents  himself  with  another 
question,  whether  I  had  learnt  to  read?  The  question  is  per- 
tinent enough,  and  as  much  to  the  purpose  as  if  he  had  in- 
quired the  hour  of  the  day.  Will  this  gentleman  be  so  good 
as  to  quit  all  circumlocution,  and  tell  us  what  we  were  to 
trust  to.  Is  Captain  Garth,  who  deserted  his  guard  at  noon 
day,  an  equerry  to  the  Duke  of  Cumberland?  Did  he  not 
leave  the  command  of  his  guard  to  a  person  who  had  as  little 
right  to  take  it  as  Buckhorse,  and  is  he  or  is  he  not  protect- 
ed by  his  royal  highness? — Is  not  Captain  Dodd  the  old 
friend  of  Henry  Lawes  Luttrell,  and  the  son  of  the  oldest 
and  most  intimate  crony  of  Lord  Irnham?  Have  either  of 
the  parties  denied  any  one  of  the  facts  stated  by  Junius? — 
Has  not  Colonel  Salter  been  ordered  to  hold  his  peace? — 
Has  not  William  Viscount  Barrington,  secretary  at  war, 
most  infamously  neglected  his  duty  in  not  moving  the  king 
to  order  a  court  martial  for  the  trial  of  these  offenders?  And 
has  not  the  adjutant-general  publicly  and  repeatedly,  though 
in  vain,  represented  that  they  ought  to  be  cashiered?  What 
will  the  flat  general  contradiction  of  an  anonymous  writer 
avail  against  circumstances  so  particular,  so  well  vouched, 
that  the  parties  most  concerned  are  ashamed  or  afraid  to 
deny  them?  How  is  Junius  to  prove  his  facts  but  by  such  a 
particularity  and  precision  in  the  state  of  them  that  no  man, 
who  knows  any  thing  of  the  matter,  will  venture  to  dispute 
the  truth  of  them?  In  this  case  a  negative  is  as  strong  as  a 
positive  proof,  and  the  only  proof  the  thing  will  admit  of. 
It  is  absolutely  incredible  that  neither  Captain  Garth  nor 
Captain  Dodd  should  contradict  such  facts  as  lead  imrae- 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  341 

diately  to  their  ruin,  if  justice  were  done — nothing  but 
shame  and  self-conviction  keep  them  silent. 

As  to  argument,  I  should  be  glad  to  know  why  the  letter 
signed  3Ioderatus*  has  not  been  answered?   It  has  not  even 

been  attempted Depend  upon  it,  Sir,  the  silence  of  Junius 

portends  no  good  to  the  ministryf.  When  he  honours  them 
with  his  notice  it  is  not  a  momentary  blast.  He  gathers  like 
a  tempest,  and  all  the  fury  of  the  elements  bursts  upon  them 
at  once.  X.  X. 


LETTER  XLVII. 

For  the  Public  Advertiser. 

26  November,  1769. 

TO  JUNIUS. 
Sir, 

Though  you  may  choose  to  vent  your  illiberal  resentment 
under  the  borrowed  signature  of  X.  X.  I,  who  think  scur- 
rility no  disgrace  to  your  real  name,  shall  not  affect  to  make 
a  distinction  where  there  is  no  difference.  For  tfte  same 
reason  I  do  not  plead  that  Junius  having  given  the  chal- 
lenge, I  am  not  bound  to  enter  the  lists  against  any  other.  It 
is  a  peculiar  advantage  in  this  sort  of  warfare,  that  when  a 
man  is  routed  in  his  own  person,  he  can  still  keep  the  field 
under  another;  and  you  in  particular  have  a  right  to  the 
device,  non  vultus  non  color  wins. 

After  giving  up  the  question  as  Junius,  you  come  back 
upon  it  as  X.  X.  It  would  be  a  labour  indeed  to  answer  you 

*  Inserted  in  the  genuine  edition  as  Philo-Junius,  Letter  xxxi.  Edit. 

fThe  quotation  in  the  note  to  the  preceding  letter,  from  private  let- 
ters, No.  11,  is  followed  by  these  words:  "  But  as  soon  as  a  good  subject 
offers. "  This  wa  fulfilled  in  the  attack  upon  the  Duke  of  Grafton  in  Let- 
ter xxxiii.  for  the  gift  of  a  patent  place,  customer  of  the  port  of  Exeter, 
to  Colonel  Burgoyne,  who  sold  it,  with  the  supposed  knowledge  of  his 
grace,  to  Mr.  Hinc  for  4GQ0&  This  Junius  deemed  so  strong  a  hold  upon 
the  duke,  as  to  advise  the  printer,  on  a  threatened  prosecution  for  publishing 
this  letter,  whit  h  contains  a  very  severe  statement  of  the  fact,  "  not  to  show 
fear,  but  to  tell  them  he  would  justify,  and  subpoena  Mr.  Hine,  Burgoyne, 
and  Bradshaw  of  the  treasury"  as  that  would  "  silence  them  at  once."  See 
Private  Letters,  No.  15.  Er.ir. 


342  MISCELLANEOUS 

the  same  questions  in  every  form  you  are  pleased  to  assume. 
But  for  once  I  will  take  the  trouble  to  repeat  what  I  have 
already  said,  not  from  any  merit  or  novelty  in  your  ques- 
tions, but  to  leave  you.  without  excuse.  Had  you  turned  over 
to  my  letter  in  the  Gazetteer  of  the  13th  of  November,  you 
would  have  discovered  that  the  gentleman,  who  asked  Mr. 
X.  X.  whether  he  had  learned  to  read,  did  not  put  a  very 
impertinent  question.  It  is  there  stated  that  Captain  Garth 
was  no  otherwise  concerned  in  General  Gansel's  rescue 
than  by  being  absent  from  his  guard  when  it  happened.  This 
is  undoubtedly  a  military  offence;  and  if  the  friendship  of 
Junius  or  X.  X.  will  still  insist  to  have  it  punished,  there  is 
no  help  for  it.  But  it  is  not  true  that  Captain  Garth  lefr  his 
guard  to  be  commanded  by  any  person;  and  it  is  immaterial 
to  the  question  whether  he  be  equerry  to  the  Duke  of  Cum- 
berland, or  protected  by  him.  If  the  thing  is  so,  I  congratu- 
late him;  but  surely  that  honour  neither  makes  him  a  crimi- 
nal, nor  aggravates  his  supposed  crime.  With  respect  to 
Captain^Dodd,  you  have  brought  afresh  charge  against  him, 
to  which  there  can  be  no  defence.  He  is,  it  seems,  a  com- 
panion of  Colonel  Luttrell,  and  his  father  is  the  intimate 
friend  of  Lord  Irnham.  I  am  sorry  for  it;  but  if  he  is  guilty  of 
such  a  crime  I  must  give  him  up;  and  I  do  it  with  the  utmost 
gratitude  to  the  friendly  and  compassionate  Junius,  who 
requires  no  greater  punishment  for  an  offence  of  this  heinous 
nature,  than  to  ruin  the  fortune  and  reputation  of  the  person 
who  committed  it. 

I  must  also  congratulate  you  upon  that  candour  and  mo- 
deration with  which  you  declined  the  contest  on  this  point, 
lest  you  should  pre-judge  the  trial,  civil  or  military,  which 
I  told  you  was  intended.  This  circumstance  affords  so  strik- 
ing a  proof  of  your  humanity,  that  you  leave  me  at  a  loss  ia 
what  manner  to  acknowledge  it. 

But  raillery  apart.  Have  you  really  forgot,  or  are  you  so 
supine  that  you  could  not  take  the  trouble  to  look  over  my 
letter,  before  you  crowded  together  so  many  ridiculous  ques- 
tions? It  is  there  affirmed  that  these  unfortunate  gentlemen 
would  have  been  immediately  tried  by  military  law,  unless 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  343 

it  had  occurred,  that  a  ti  ial  by  court-martial  might  possibly 
prejudge  the  civil  action  intended  to  be  carried  on  by  the 
party  injured.  Some  reasons  for  this  were  given,  and  such 
as  ought  to  have  satisfied  a  patriot  at  least.  But  I  have  learn- 
ed by  much  observation  that  nothing  will  satisfy  a  patriot 
but  a  place. 

Once  more  I  will  state  the  reasons,  and  though  I  do  not 
believe  you  will  feel  them,  yet  I  am  persuaded  every  man, 
who  knows  or  values  our  constitution,  will  be  convinced  of 
their  weight. 

By  the  articles  of  war  a  military  officer  who  shall  oppose, 
or  resist  the  civil  magistrate  in  the  execution  of  his  duty, 
shall  be  cashiered;  and  the  only  question  that  remains  is,  in 
what  manner  can  the  offence  be  ascertained?  I  maintain  that 
a  court-martial  cannot  enter  into  the  question  of  fact,  by 
leading  evidence  to  prove  that  the  offence  was  committed, 
because  this  would  be  to  deprive  an  Englishman  of  his  right 
of  trial  for  civil  offences  by  jury.  The  legal  and  constitutional 
method  of  procedure  in  these  cases  is  a  common  trial  at  law 
for  a  civil  offence,  and  a  conviction  of  the  offender  at  com- 
mon law  is  the  only  evidence  upon  which  a  court-martial 
can  proceed  to  inflict  the  military  punishment.  This  being 
so,  had  a  court-martial  been  ordered,  or  were  it  now  ordered 
upon  these  gentlemen,  it  would  be  a  manifest  violation  of 
their  privileges  as  Englishmen;  because  the  issue  is  not  yet 
tried  at  common  law;  and  till  the  offenders  are  tried  and 
convicted  at  law,  there  exists  no  medium  on  which  a  court- 
martial  can  proceed. 

This  doctrine  may  be  new  to  you;  but  it  is  not  so  to  any 
man  acquainted  with  the  constitution  of  which  you  pretend 
to  be  an  assertor.  The  single  point  in  dispute  between  us  is, 
whether  the  ministry  acted  properly  or  improperly  in  the 
affair  of  General  Gansel's  rescue?  You  say  the  minister 
ought  to  have  ordered  a  court-martial  to  try  the  officers 
concerned  in  it  immediately;  and  because  he  did  not  you 
accuse  him  to  the  public.  I,  on  the  other  hand,  affirm,  that 
a  court-martial  ought  not  to  have  been  called  immediately; 
that  the  officers  could  not  have  been  tried  consistently  with 


344  MISCELLANEOUS 

the  laws  of  the  land;  and  if  the  minister  had  acted  otherwise 
than  he  did,  he  would  have  been  guilty  of  a  very  gross  vio- 
lation of  our  rights.  The  reasons  on  which  we  found  this 
difference  in  opinion  are  before  the  public,  and  it  will  judge 
of  them  without  respect  to  you  or  to  me.  Whether  the  parties 
have  denied  the  facts  or  not,  whether  Colonel  Salter  speaks 
or  holds  his  tongue,  are  very  immaterial  circumstances;  but 
if  my  position  is  right,  Lord  Barrington  has  not  neglected 
his  duty  in  not  moving  the  king  to  order  a  court-martial, 
which  the  king  could  not  order  in  the  present  state  of  the 
case,  consistently  with  that  tender  regard  which  his  Majesty 
has  ever  shown  for  the  civil  rights  of  his  subjects.  To  an- 
swer directly  the  question  you  ask,  whether  or  not  the  offi- 
cers are  to  be  tried?  is  impossible.  It  is  a  future  event,  and 
though  the  present  intention  of  the  ministry  is,  I  believe, 
favourable  to  the  rancour  of  Junius,#  no  man  can  tell  what 
time  may  produce.  But  the  question  is  certainly  premature, 
and  indeed  the  whole  dispute  would  have  come  more  pro- 
perly before  the  public  after  the  civil  trial,  which  naturally 
and  necessarily  must  precede  the  court-martial. 

No  motive  engaged  me  to  enter  into  this  altercation,  save 
an  honest  indignation  excited  by  your  malevolence,  igno- 
rance, and  misrepresentation.  I  foresaw  the  illiberal  abuse 
to  which  I  exposed  myself,  and  I  received  it  as  it  deserves 
to  be  received.  I  will  not  do  any  of  your  allies  the  honour 
to  take  notice  of  them,  but  I  recommend  it  to  you  to  tie  up 
that  over-drove  animal  John  Bull,  who  seems  indeed  to  be 
stimulated  to  madness,  that  he  may  no  longer  profane  a 
respectable  name,  but  own  that  which  he  received  from  his 
godfathers  and  godmothers,  viz.  Patrick  OBully. 

MODESTUS. 


LETTER  XLVIII. 

XO  THE  TRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 

Sir,  2  Dec.  1769. 

I  never  doubted  that  the  unfortunate  Modestus,  if  left  to 
himself,  would  soon  ruin  himself  and  his  clients.  He  has 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  345 

now  fairly  clinched  the  matter.  In  his  letter  of  this  day  his 
whole  defence  of  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  and  all  the  weight  of 
his  arguments  against  Junius,  are  made  to  rest  upon  a  sup- 
posed certainty  that,  when  the  common  law  has  taken  its 
course,  the  officers  of  the  guards  will  be  brought  to  a  court- 
martial.  Here  then  we  join  issue  with  Modestus;  and  though 
near  ten  weeks  have  elapsed  since  the  rescue  of  General 
Gansel,  we  are  ready  to  admit  that  it  is  not  yet  too  late  for 
the  minister  to  do  his  duty;  but  if  notwithstanding  the  as- 
surances given  us  by  Modestus  it  should  appear  that  there 
never  was  an  intention  to  bring  these  offenders  to  a  trial, 
how  will  he  answer  it  to  the  public,  that  he  has  dared  to 
take  up  such  a  cause,  and  to  impose  so  many  gross  false- 
hoods upon  our  credulity?  As  a  friend,  I  would  advise  him 
to  look  out  in  time  for  some  plausible  evasion.  The  minis- 
try have  singular  reasons  for  every  thing  they  do,  and  I  will 
venture  to  foretell  that  the  officers  of  the  guards  will  never 
be  brought  to  a  court  martial,  because  their  offence  is  so 
great  that  they  must  inevitably  be  cashiered. 

X.  X. 


LETTER  LXIX. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC  ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  5  March,  1770. 

There  is  a  certain  set  of  men,  who,  upon  almost  every 
action  of  their  lives,  are  insulted  with  the  pity  both  of  their 
enemies  and  their  friends.  They  seem  to  have  discovered  the 
art  of  doing  whatever  is  base  and  detestable,  without  forfeit- 
ing their  claim  to  the  public  compassion.  A  bad  man,  with 
resolution  and  abilities,  is  a  formidable  being.  His  great 
qualities  compensate  for  the  absence  of  good  ones,  and 
though  not  entitled  to  esteem,  secure  him  from  contempt.— 
The  persons  I  speak  of  are  not  in  this  predicament:  they 
have  nothing  elevated  in  their  vices.  In  vain  do  they  labour 
to  distinguish  themselves  by  the  violation  of  all  public  duties, 
and  private  engagements.  They  still  preserve  their  natural 
mediocrity  of  character,  and  have  as  little  chance  of  being 

V®L.  II.  2  X 


346  MISCELLANEOUS 

honoured  with  the  detestation,  as  with  the  esteem  of  their 
country. 

I  cannot  mention  the  name  of  Sir  Edward  Havvke  with- 
out concern.  How  unfortunate  it  is  that  a  heart,  unacquaint- 
ed with  fear,  should  have  so  little  sense  of  propriety  and  de- 
corum! I  should  be  sorry  to  puzzle  him  with  intricate  ques- 
tions either  of  policy  or  morals,  but  there  are  some  distinc- 
tions within  the  reach  even  of  his  understanding.  In  his  situa- 
tion, it  particularly  became  him  to  regulate  his  conduct  by  the 
judgment  of  the  public.  Though  not  expected  to  think  for 
himself,  he  might  have  taken  a  generous  part  with  the  friends 
of  his  country,  and  still  have  been  respected  for  the  integrity 
of  his  intentions.  To  what  a  poor,  insignificant  condition 
has  he  now  reduced  himself!  Behold  him  at  such  a  conjunc- 
ture as  the  present,  meanly  keeping  possession  of  an  office, 
which  he  owes  to  Lord  Chatham's  friendship,  and  distin- 
guished as  the  only  surviving  minister,  (of  those  introduced 
into  the  cabinet  by  Lord  Chatham*)  who  supports  the  pre- 
sent administration.  What  opinion  can  he  deliver  in  the 
House  of  Commons?  What  measures  can  he  maintain  in  the 
cabinet?  Instead  of  the  dignity  of  thundering  out  secrets  of 
state  from  the  gallery,  we  see  the  first  lord  of  the  admiralty 
skulking  into  the  house,  just  before  a  division,  as  if  he 
thought  that  every  body  had  heard  the  peremptory  message 
sent  him  by  Mr.  Bradshaw. 

As  to  his  opinions  in  council,  he  must  either  adopt  a  new 
set  of  ideas,  or,  if  he  presumes  to  differ  from  his  colleagues, 
must  silently  submit  to  be  over-ruled.  On  these  terms  he 
may  be  permitted  to  keep  an  employment,  which,  since  he 
sold  his  stock  in  the  beginning  of  the  winter,  produces 
nothing,  in  addition  to  the  salary,  but  the  means  of  provid- 
ing for  his  friends.  The  choice  of  Commodore  Hill  and  Ad- 
miral Geary  proves  that  he  can  discover  latent  merit  in  the 
most  unpromising  subjects.  By  this  disposition  of  the  com- 
mand at  Chatham  and  Portsmouth  he  seems  to  aim  at  en- 
encouraging  future  services,  rather  than  in  rewarding  the 

*  See  Editor's  note  to  Junius,  Letter  xxm.  Edit. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  347 

past;  and  as  to  his  economy,  was  it  possible  to  give  a 
better  proof  of  it,  than  by  turning  adrift  a  multitude  of  poor 
artificers  to  idleness  and  beggarv,  on  purpose  to  make  up 
four  pounds  a  day  for  the  use  of  Mr.  Geary? 

Admiral  Holburne's  services  in  America  have  also  been 
very  properly  considered.  When  so  many  Englishmen  va- 
cate their  places,  it  would  be  strange  indeed  if  a  Scot  of  such 
distinguished  merit  had  been  left  unprovided  for.  Sir  Percy 
Brett  resigns, — Mr.  Holburne  succeeds  him,  and  Sir  Ed- 
ward Hawke  is  still  first  lord  of  the  admiralty!  Proceed,  Sir 
Edward,  in  this  honourable  line.  Be  a  spendthrift  of  your 
good  name.  We  shall  not  quarrel  with  your  prodigality,  for 
you  have  a  right  to  waste  the  reputation  you  had  acquired. 
You  once  contributed  largely  to  save  this  country,  and  have 
a  creditor's  claim  to  contribute  to  its  destruction. 

The  indigent  circumstances  of  Lord  Hartford's  family 
account  for  and  justify  their  conduct.  The  same  spirit  of 
economy  which  animated  the  father  to  the  sale  of  public 
employments  in  Ireland,  revives  in  the  son,  and  finds  the 
best  market  for  the  ammunition  of  the  Warwickshire  militia*. 
Lord  Hartford,  General  Conway,  and  Lord  Beauchamp  are 
the  very  quintessence  of  courtesy  and  candour.  Undecided 
in  their  opinions,  disengaged  from  all  attachments,  they  sup- 
port no  measures  without  leaving  room  for  explanation,  and 
can  reconcile  the  coldest  indifference  about  the  interests  of 
others,  with  the  warmest  anxiety  for  their  own.  It  is  unluck- 
ily the  fate  of  these  moderate,  candid  persons,  to  be  despised 
by  all  parties.  In  vain  does  the  gentle  Beauchamp  give  the 
treasury  bench  the  negative  assistance  of  his  oratory; — in 
vain  does  his  honest  father  beg  an  audience  for  personal  so- 
licitation in  the  closet.  General  Howard  and  the  secretary  at 
war  have  still  spirit  to  resistf.  The  promotion  goes  in  the 
regiment,  and  the  military  achievements    of  the  younger 

*  This  youth  goes  by  the  name  of  Gunpowder  Beauchamp  through  the 
whole  county. 

|  Lord  Hartford  not  long  ago  had  the  modesty  to  desire  that  his  son,  a 
youth  of  twenty  years  old,  might  be  put  over  the  heads  of  all  General 
Howard's  officers. 


348  MISCELLANEOUS 

Conway  are  left  for  future  consideration.  Poor  Lord  Hart- 
ford! what  is  this  but  a  continuation  of  the  Duke  of  Graf- 
ton's tyranny?  From  one  minister  we  see  him  regularly 
kicked  down  to  another.  His  nephew  treats  him  like  a  foot- 
man, and  Lord  North,  with  still  greater  severity,  yokes  him 
with  General  Graeme*. 

My  sincere  compassion  for  Lord  Cornwallis  arises  not  so 
much  from  his  quality  as  from  his  time  of  life.  A  young 
man  by  a  spirited  conduct  may  atone  for  the  deficiencies  of 
his  understanding.  Where  was  the  memory  of  this  noble 
lord,  or  what  kind  of  intellects  must  he  possess,  when  he 
resigns  his  place,  yet  continues  in  the  support  of  adminis- 
tration, and,  to  shew  his  independence,  makes  a  parade  of 
attending  Lord  North's  levee,  and  pays  a  public  homage  to 
the  deputy  of  Lord  Bute!  Where  is  now  his  attachment, 
where  are  now  his  professions  to  Lord  Chatham; — his  zeal 
for  the  Whig  interest  of  England,  and  his  detestation  of 
Lord  Bute,  the  Bedfords,  and  the  Tories?  Since  the  time 
at  which  these  were  the  only  topics  of  his  conversation,  I 
I  presume  he  has  shifted  his  company  as  well  as  opinions. 
Will  he  tell  the  world  to  which  of  his  uncles  or  to  what 
friend,  to  Philipson  or  a  Tory  lord,  he  owes  the  advice 
which  has  directed  his  conduct?  I  will  not  press  him  far- 
ther. The  young  man  has  taken  a  wise  resolution  at  last, 
for  he  is  retiring  into  a  voluntary  banishment  in  hopes  of 
recovering  the  ruin  of  his  reputation. 

These  loose  sketches  are  sufficient  to  mark  to  you  the 
kind  of  character,  which,  with  every  quality  that  ought  to 
make  it  odious,  still  continues  pitiful,  and  is  never  impor- 
tant enough  in  mischief  to  excite  indignation.  I  would  not 
waste  a  thought  in  contriving  the  punishment  or  correction 
of  such  men;  but  it  may  be  useful  to  the  public  to  see  by 
what  sort  of  creatures  the  present  administration  is  sup- 
ported. It  is  unnecessary  to  enlarge  the  catalogue.  Without 
name  or  description  they  are  distinguished  by  a  certain  con- 
sciousness of  shame  which  accompanies  their  actions.  After 

*  Lord  Hartford  and  this  worthy  Scotchman  are  spies  in  ordinary  to 
the  minister  for  the  time  being. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  349 

deserting  one  party,  they  dare  not  engage  heartily  with  the 
other;  and  having  renounced  their  first  sentiments  and  con- 
nexions, are  forced  to  proceed  in  the  humble  track  of  voting 
as  they  are  ordered,  without  party,  principle  or  friends. 

DOMITIAN*. 


LETTER  LXX. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC  ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  10  March,  1770. 

No  man  is  more  warmly  attached  to  the  best  of  princes 
than  I  am.  I  reverence  his  personal  virtues,  as  much  as  I 
respect  his  understanding,  and  am  happy  to  find  myself  un- 
der the  government  of  a  prince,  whose  temper  and  abilities 
do  equal  honour  to  his  character.  At  the  same  time,  I  con- 
fess, I  did  not  hear  without  astonishment  of  the  answer 
which  some  evil-minded  counsellors  advised  him  to  return 
to  the  sheriffs  of  the  city  of  Londonf .    For  a  king  of  Great 

*  The  letters  under  this  signature  are  recognised  by  Junius  in  his  Pri- 
vate Letters,  No.  56.  Edit. 

■j-  The  following  are  the  particulars  of  the  dispute  which  occurred  in 
presenting  the  petition  &f  the  14th  of  March,  1770. 

On  Wednesday  the  7th,  the  sheriffs  attended  at  St.  James's,  to  know 
his  Majesty's  pleasure,  when  he  would  be  waited  on  with  the  city  address, 
remonstrance,  and  petition;  they  waited  till  twenty  minutes  after  two, 
when,  the  levee  being  over,  they,  with  the  remembrancer,  were  admitted 
into  the  closet,  when  Mr.  Sheriff  Tounsend  addressed  himself  to  his  Ma- 
jestv  in  the  following  words: 

"  May  it  please  your  Majesty, 
"  By  order  of  the  lord  mayor,  aldermen,  and  liven-,  of  the  city  of  Lon- 
don, in  common-hall  assembled,  we  took  the  earliest  opportunity,  as  was 
our  duty,  to  wait  upon  your  Majesty;  and,  being  prevented  by  one  of  your 
Majesty's  household,  who  informed  us,  that  it  was  your  Majesty's  plea- 
sure to  receive  us,  we  this  day  wait  on  your  Majesty,  humbly  to  know 
when  your  Majesty  will  please  to  be  attended  with  an  humble  address, 
remonstrance,  and  petition." 

To  which  his  Majesty  was  pleased  to  return  the  following  answer: 
"  As  the  case  is  entirely  new,  I  will  take  time  to  consider  of  it,  and 
transmit  you  an  answer  by  one  of  my  principal  secretaries  of  state." 

On  Thursday  evening  the  sheriffs  received  the  following  letter  from 
Lord  Weymouth: 

"  Gentlemen,  St.  James's,  March  8,  1770. 

**  The  king  commands  me  to  inform  you,  in  consequence  of  the  message 

which 


350  MISCELLANEOUS 

Britain  to  take  time  to  consider,  whether  he  will  or  will  not 
receive  a  petition  from  his  subjects,  seems  to  me  to  amount 
to  this,  that  he  will  take  time  to  consider  whether  he  will  or 

■which  you  brought  yesterday  to  St.  James's,  that  he  is  always  ready  to 
receive  applications  from  any  of  his  subjects;  but  as  the  present  case  of 
address,  remonstrance  and  petition,  seems  entirely  new,  I  am  commanded 
to  enquire  of  you  in  what  manner  it  is  authenticated,  and  what  the  nature 
of  the  assembly  was,  in  which  this  measure  was  adopted? — When  you  fur- 
nish me  with  answers  to  these  questions  I  shall  signify  to  you  his  Majes- 
ty's further  pleasure. 

"  I  am,  Gentlemen, 

"  Your  most  obedient 
"  Sheriffs  of  London."  "  humble  Servant, 

"  Weymouth." 

On  the  next  day  the  sheriffs  went  to  St.  James's,  and  after  waiting  some 
time,  Lord  Bolingbroke  came  out,  and  enquired  whether  he  was  to  tell 
his  Majesty  that  they  came  with  a  fresh  message,  or  with  a  message? 
The  sheriffs  answered,  with  a  message.  Soon  after  the  two  secretaries  of 
state,  Lord  Rochford  and  Lord  Weymouth,  came  to  the  sheriffs.  Lord 
Weymouth  asked  them  "  whether  they  had  received  his  letter,  which 
was  written  by  his  Majesty's  order?" 

Sheriffs-  "  We  have." 

Lord  Weymouth.  "  His  Majesty  desires  to  know  whether  you  come  ii\ 
consequence  of  that  letter;  or  whether  you  come  on  any  fresh  business?" 

Sheriff's.  "  We  come  in  consequence  of  that  letter." 

Lord  Weymouth.  "  Would  it  not  be  more  proper  to  send  an  answer  in 
writing  through  me?" 

Sheriffs.  '*  We  act  ministerially.  As  sheriffs  of  London  we  have  a  right 
to  an  audience;  and  cannot  communicate  to  any  other  person  than  the 
king,  the  subject  of  our  message." 

Lord  Weymouth.  "  I  do  not  dispute  your  right  to  an  audience;  but 
would  it  not  be  better  and  more  accurate  to  give  your  message  to  me  iu 
writing?" 

Sheriffs.  "  We  know  the  value  and  consequence  of  the  citizens'  right 
to  apply  immediately  to  the  king,  and  not  to  a  third  person;  and  we  do 
not  mean  that  any  of  their  rights  and  privileges  shall  be  betrayed  by  our 
means." 

Lord  Weymouth  then  said,  "  His  Majesty  understanding  that  you  come 
ministerially  authorized  with  a  message  from  the  city  of  London,  will  see 
you  as  soon  as  the  levee  is  over;"  and  being  introduced  accordingly,  Mr. 
Sheriff  Townsend  addressed  his  Majesty  in  these  words: 
"  May  it  please  your  Majesty^ 

**  When  we  had  last  the  honour  to  appear  before  your  Majesty,  your 
Majesty  was  graciously  pleased  to  promise  an  answer  by  one  of  your  Ma- 
jesty's principal  secretaries  of  state;  but  we  had  yesterday  questions  pro- 
posed to  us  by  Lord  Weymouth.  In  answer  to  which  we  beg  leave  hum- 
bly 


LETTERS  OF  JUNTUS.  351 

will  not  adhere  to  the  fourth  article  of  the  Declaration  of 
Rights.  One  would  think  that  this  could  never  have  been  a 
question  in  the  mind  of  so  gracious  a  prince,  if  there  were 
not  some  very  dangerous  advice  given  in  the  closet.  I  now 
hear  thet  it  has  been  signified  to  the  sheriffs,  that  his  Majes- 
ty cannot  receive  the  petition,  until  he  is  informed  of  the 
nature  of  the  assembly,  in  which  it  was  composed.  A  king 
indeed  is  not  obliged  to  understand  the  political  forms  and 
constitution  of  every  corporation  in  his  dominions,  but  his 
ministers  must  be  uncommonly  ignorant  who  could  not  save 
him  the  embarrassment  of  asking  such  a  question  concern- 
ing the  first  body  corporate  perhaps  in  the  world.  The 
sheriffs,  I  presume,  will  hardly  venture  to  satisfy  so  unusual 
an  inquiry  upon  their  own  bare  authority.  They  will  natu- 
rally move  the  Lord  Mayor  to  summon  another  Common 
Hall,  to  answer  for  themselves;  and  then,  I  doubt  not,  the 
corporation  of  the  city  of  London  will  fully  explain,  to  those 
whom  it  may  concern,  who  they  are,  and  what  is  the  nature 
of  their  assembly.  "After  all,  Sir,  I  do  not  apprehend  that  the 
propriety  of  the  king's  receiving  a  petition  from  any  of  his 

bly  to  inform  your  Majesty,  that  the  application  which  we  make  to  your 
Majesty,  we  make  as  sheriffs  of  the  city  of  London,  by  the  direction  of 
the  livery  in  Common-Hall  legally  assembled.  The  address,  remonstrance, 
and  petition,  to  be  presented  to  your  Majesty  by  their  chief  magistrate,  is 
the  act  of  the  citizens  of  London  in  their  greatest  court;  and  is  ordered  by 
them  to  be  properly  authenticated  as  their  act." 

To  which  his  Majesty  replied  as  follows: 

"  I  will  consider  of  the  answer  you  have  given  me." 

Whereupon  the  sheriffs  withdrew. 

On  the  Monday  following  the  sheriffs  received  the  subjoined  letter 
"  Gentlemen,  St.  James's,  lg  March,  1770. 

"The  king  has  commanded  me  to  signify  to  you  his  Majesty's  pleasure 
that  he  will  receive  on  Wednesday  next,  at  two  o'clock  in  the  afternoon, 
the  address,  remonstrance,  and  petition,  which  you  have  informed  his 
Majesty  is  to  be  presented  by  the  chief  magistrate  of  the  city  of  London. 

"  I  am,  Gentlemen, 
#  "  Your  most  obedient 

"  Sheriffs  of  London.'"  "  humble  Servant, 

"  Weymouth." 

The  address,  &c.  was  presented  accordingly,  and  for  a  copy  of  it  see 
Editor's  note  to  Junius,  Letter  xxxvu.  Vol.  I.  p.  217.  Edit. 


352  MISCELLANEOUS 

subjects  depends  in  the  least  upon  their  quality  or  situation. 
He  is  bound  by  the  declaration  and  subsequent  Bill  of 
Rights  to  receive  all  petitions  from  his  subjects.  What  no- 
tice or  answer  the  contents  of  them  may  deserve,  must  be 
considered  afterwards.  To  refuse  the  petition  itself  is 
against  law.  I  am  persuaded,  however,  that  nothing  can  be 
farther  from  the  intention  of  our  gracious  sovereign,  than  to 
offer  a  gross  affront  to  the  whole  city  of  London.  It  is  evi- 
dent that  the  ministry  either  mean  to  gain  time  for  carrying 
some  poor  counter-measure,  by  means  of  the  wretched  de- 
pendants of  the  court,  or  to  intimidate  the  city  magistrates, 
and  deter  them  from  doing  their  duty.  I  think  it  therefore 
absolutely  necessary  for  us  to  rouse  in  defence  of  the  honour 
of  the  city,  and  demonstrate  to  the  ministry,  by  the  spirit 
and  vigour  of  our  proceedings,  that  we  are  not,  what  they 
are  pleased  to  represent  us,  the  scum  of  the  earth,  and  the 
vilest  and  basest  of  mankind. 

MODERATUS*. 


LETTER  LXXI. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 

Sir,  26  June,  1770, 

That  we  may  be  quietly  governed  is  a  very  proper  peti- 
tion in  the  service  of  the  Church  of  England.  If  the  worst 
men  should  be  put  in  authority  under  the  king,  they  will 
think  it  politic  to  counteract  the  prayers  of  the  people,  and 
indifferently  minister  injustice  to  the  punishment  of  virtue, 
and  the  maintenance  of  vice.  The  Duke  of  Grafton  has  de- 
voted himself  to  these  principles  with  all  the  fervour  of  an 
enthusiast,  nor  can  we  avoid  lamenting  that  so  inflexible  a 
bigot  should  still  have  failed  of  martyrdom.  His  grace  has 
triumphed  over  the  last  moments  of  his  power,  nor  permit- 
ted its  extinction  till  he  had  dismissed  the  chancellorf,  and 

• 
*  Letter  xxxi.  which,  in  the  genuine  edition,  is  signed  Philo-yunius, 
had,  when  it  originally  appeared  in  the  Public  Advertiser,  the  signature 
of  Moderatits  affixed  to  it.  Edit. 
fThe  dismissed  chancellor  was  Lord  Camden.  Edit. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  353 

procured  a  pension,  inadequate,  indeed,  to  former  merits,  for 
the  truU  honest  Mr.  Bradshaw*.  The  first  occurrence  has 
been  sufficiently  canvassed:  the  propriety  with  which  his 
grace  has  effected  the  second  occurrence  cannot  possibly  be 
felt  through  all  its  force,  till  the  deserving  object  of  minis- 
terial gratitude  has  spoken  for  himself. 

Come  forward,  Mr.  Bradshaw,  thou  worthy,  but  much 
injured  man,  at  once  convince,  and  undeceive  the  public. 
Tell  them,  that  if  a  person  should  exist,  who  dares  even  to 
insinuate  that  the  following  relation  is  founded  upon  stub- 
born facts,  he  is  a  gross  defamer  of  unbiassed  honour,  and 
would  extend  that  rancorous  abuse,  which  hitherto  has  prey- 
ed upon  the  fairest  and  most  courtly  characters,  till  it  asperse 
your  own. 

Mrs.  Allenby  entered  into  an  engagement  with  Miss 
Bradshaw  in  behalf  of  Mr.  Allenbx ,  her  husband.  It  was 
stipulated  that  she  should  give  into  Miss  Bradshaw's  hands 
the  sum  of  six  hundred  pounds,  which  was  to  have  been  the 
purchase  money  of  the  place  of  surveyor  of  the  pines  in 
America.  An  application  was  soon  afterwards  made  for  the 
same  place  by  Captain  P f,  who  promised  that  on  re- 
ceiving it  he  would  pay  down  the  sum  of  eight  hundred 
pounds.  In  consequence  of  this  promise,  the  name  of  Mr. 
Allenby,  already  inserted  in  the  list  of  intended  promotions, 
was  erased,  and  the  blank  filled  up  with  the  name  of  Captain 
P ,  to  which  was  added  a  written  assertion  that  his  ap- 
pointment was  owing  to  Mr.  Allenby's  having  chosen  to 
decline  going.  When  this  affair  was  examined  at  the  board 
of  treasury,  Mrs.  Allenby  was  asked  where  her  husband 
was  during  this  transaction.  She  answered,  "  in  Cumber- 
land, assisting  in  the  support  of  the  Portland  interest,  when 
Mr.  Robinson  and  Mr.  Jenkinson  were  doing  what  mischief 
they  could  to  oblige  Sir  James  Lowther." 

The  latter  part  of  Mrs.  Allenby's  declaration  occasioned 
some  little  entertainment.  She  was  ignorant  that  the  two  in- 

*  Mr.  Bradshaw,  as  often  observed  before,  was  the  Duke  of  Grafton's 
secretary.  Edit. 

j  Who  the  person  here  alluded  to  is,  cannot  be  ascertained.  Edit 

Vol.  II.  2  Y 


354  MISCELLANEOUS 

timate  friends  of  the  Earl  of  Bute,  whose  characters  she 
was  then  drawing,  were  actually  present.  Mr.  Bradshaw 
pleaded  in  excuse  that  his  sister,  a  milliner  near  Moorfields, 
was  solely  concerned  in  this  business.  When  Mr.  Cooper 
mentioned  to  Mr.  Bradshaw  an  intention  of  lodging  a  com- 
plaint against  him,  he  burst  into  tears. — They  could  not  have 
been  tears  of  penitence,  for  they  imply  preceding  guilt. 

When  Mr.  Bradshaw  shall  have  exculpated  his  conduct, 
which  cannot  be  arraigned  without  injustice,  he  may,  per- 
haps, become  a  conspicuous  instance  of  the  prevalence  of 
example.  The  voice  of  injured  innocence  may  sound  within 
a  neighbouring  quarter;  and,  as  the  ostensible  premier  may 
be  questioned  on  a  similar  occasion,  his  lordship  will  have 
an  opportunity  to  revive  this  long-forgotten  truth.  However 
contemptibly  the  world  may  judge  of  ministers  of  state,  they 
are  not  conscious  to  themselves  of  any  guilt. 

Q  IN  THE  CORNER. 


LETTER  LXXII. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC  ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  27  June,  1770. 

Your  correspondent,  A  Fellow- Labourer  in  the  public 
Cauae*,  has  a  claim  to  our  attention,  rather  from  the  liberality 
and  candour  with  which  he  has  stated  his  ideas,  than  from 
the  force  of  argument  with  which  he  has  supported  them. 
He  seems  to  have  forgotten  that  the  national  resentment 
has  not  been  so  much  excited  by  the  exclusion  of  Mr.  Wilkes 
as  by  the  insertion  of  Mr.  Luttrell.  He  does  not  seem  to  be 
aware  that  the  discussion  of  the  great  question  can  never  be 
brought  on  in  a  new  mode  as  long  as  Mr.  Wilkes  is  to  be  the 
ground-work  of  the  debate:  that  the  arguments  for  incapaci- 
tation of  that  gentleman  were  merely  personal:  that  they  re- 
spected the  member  returned,  without  any  reference  to  the 
constituents:  and,  therefore,  that  the  substitution  of  other 

*  A  letter  under  the  above  signature  appeared  on  tlie  preceding  day, 
recommending  Mr.  Wilkes  to  stand  forward  as  a  candidate  for  the  city  oi 
London  on  the  death  of  Alderman  Beckford.  Edit. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  355 

constituents  can  effect  no  alteration  in  the  case  whilst  the 
person  returned  continued  the  same. 

Your  correspondent  would  likewise  have  done  well  to 
have  borne  in  mind  that  the  livery  of  London  have,  by  the 
most  authentic  act  of  the  corporation,  declared  to  the  world, 
that  the  intrusion  of  Mr.  Luttrell  has  vitiated  the  present 
parliament*.  With  what  consistency  then  can  the  same  body 

*  In  such  popular  detestation  Was  the  conduct  of  the  ministry  and  par. 
liament  held,  with  respect  to  their  proceedings  in  the  Middlesex  election, 
that  Mr.  Alderman  Townsend  went  so  far  as  to  try  the  legality  of  the  act 
of  parliament  for  raising  tiie  land-tax,  the  alderman  having  refused  to  pay 
it  nn  the  pretence  that  the  intrusion  of  Mr.  Luttrell  had  vitiated  the  par- 
liament  and  negatived  its  power. 

The  trial  took  place  June  9,  1772,  and  the  following  account  of  it  is  ex- 
tracted from  the  Public  Advertiser  of  the  ensuing  day. 

Yesterday  came  on  in  the  court  of  King's  Bench  the  long-expected 
cause  between  Mr.  Alderman  Townsend  and  the  collector  of  the  land- 
tax.  Lord  Mansiield  had  appointed  the  trial  for  nine  o'clock  precisely;  but 
he  delayed  it  till  near  eleven,  waiting  for  the  attorney-general,  who  did 
not  attend.  The  cause  was  opened  by  Mr.  Davenport;  after  which  Mr. 
Serjeant  Glynn  addressed  the  jury,  and  informed  them  that  in  common 
cases  it  was  the  custom  to  content  themselves  with  proving  the  trespass, 
and  then  leave  the  justification  of  it  to  the  defendant;  but  he  said  the 
present  case  required  a  farther  discussion  from  him;  that  it  was  an  im- 
portant constitution.il  point  upon  which  the  valuable  rights  of  the  whole 
nation  depended.  He  said,  he  was  directed  by  his  client,  Mr.  Townsend, 
to  conduct  the  cause  as  its  importance  demanded:  that  therefore  he  should 
wave  all  the  informalities  in  the  collector's  proceedings:  he  would  admit 
him  likewise  to  be  collector,  and  that  lie  was  authorised  by  the  commis- 
sioners: that  the  single  ground  of  his  pleading  would  be  that  the  commis- 
sioners themselves  were  not  authorised:  for  that  a  House  of  Commons 
legally  chosen  by  the  people  are  alone  empowered  to  levy  taxes  in  this 
country;  and  he  said,  he  insisted  and  would  prove  by  evidence  that  the 
persons  who  passed  the  act  of  parliament  (under  which  the  collector  had 
seized  Mr.  Townsend's  hay)  were  improperly  called  a  House  of  Com- 
mons, because  they  were  illegally  and  defectively  constituted.  He  said 
that  to  the  making  of  all  laws  and  the  levying  of  all  taxes,  it  was  formerly 
necessary  that  every  freeholder  should  assent  individually;  and  especially 
before  a  tax  was  to  be  levied  the  constituents  formerly  were  first  referred 
to,  because  they  were  to  consent  to  what  they  were  to  pay.  Custom  and 
usage  (he  said)  had  now  made  it  <  ommon  for  the  representatives  in  par- 
liament to  speak  for  the  people,  and  this  was  considered  the  same  as  the 
consent  of  the  people,  because  they  were  freely  chosen  by  the  people  for 
that  purpose;  and  after  every  election  a  formal  letter  of  attorney  (the 
indenture)  is  always  given  by  the  electors  to  the  person  they  have  chosen. 

He 


356  MISCELLANEOUS 

of  men  subscribe  to  the  integrity  of  the  same  parliament 
upon  any  other  terms  than  the  previous  extermination  of  the 

He  said,  that  this  implied  consent  of  the  people  by  their  representatives 
depended  entirely  on  their  having- the  free  choice  of  their  representatives: 
for  that  if  their  freedom  of  choice  was  invaded,  the  reference  and  impli- 
cation were  destroyed,  and  the  people  would  no  longer  have  any  the  least 
consent  in  the  making  of  laws  or  levying  of  taxes;  but  th<tt  their  lives  and 
their  property  would  be  absolutely  at  the  mercy  of  any  set  of  men  who 
should  call  themselves  a  parliament,  corrupted  by  the  revenue  and  sup- 
ported by  the  troops  of  a  weak  or  a  wicked  tyrant.  He  said,  that  this  as 
far  at  least  as  it  related  to  representation  was  the  case  with  the  present 
persons  who  call  themselves  a  house;  for  which,  he  said,  as  they  were 
not  chosen,  so  neither  are  they  acknowledged  by  the  people:  the  county 
of  Middlesex,  he  said,  was  not  represented:  that  one  of  the  members  le- 
gally chosen  by  the  county  had  been  forcibly  and  illegally  excluded;  and 
another  person  as  illegally  and  forcibly  substituted  in  his  room.  Mr. 
Glynn  then  gave  a  very  striking  account  of  the  absurdity  and  impudence 
of  Mr.  Luttrell's  pretensions  and  of  the  infamy  of  our ,  and  his  abet- 
tors and  accomplices  He  said,  the  present  pretended  House  of  Commons 
had  superseded  the  election  of  the  county  by  an  unwarrantable  resolution 
of  their  own;  arid  had  by  so  doing  seized  into  their  own  hands  and  for  their 
ow  use  and  emolument  the  birth-right  of  all  the  people  of  England.  He 
proved  in  the  clearest  manner  that  the  pretence  of  Mr.  Wilkes's  incapacity 
does  not  exist  in  the  law:  and  that  the  people's  right  of  representation  is 
less  than  a  name  if  the  House  of  Commons  has  an  indefinite  power  of 
expulsion.  Mr.  Glynn  said  he  would  produce  unquestionable  evidence  to 
the  points  on  which  he  had  rested  the  merits  of  his  cause;  notwithstand- 
ing Uiat  he  thoHght  it  unnecessary,  because  the  facts  were  so  notorious 
and  so  well  known  to  the  jury  themselves,  that  they  could  of  their  own 
knowledge,  agreeably  to  the  laws  of  the  land,  give  a  verdict  for  the  plain- 
tiff even  without  any  evidence. 

As  soon  as  Mr.  Glynn  had  finished  his  speech  and  was  directing  the  evi- 
dence to  be  called,  Mr.  Wallace  (the  king's  counsellor)  produced  a 
printed  paper,  which  he  said  was  the  act  of  parliament  by  which  the  col- 
lector levied  the  tax.  As  for  the  objection  that  had  been  made  by  Mr. 
Glynn  relative  to  the  seat  of  one  of  the  members,  or  of  the  legality  of  the 
parliament,  he  said  the  courts  of  Westminster-hall  had  no  power  to  de- 
termine. 

Lord  Mansfield  then  rose  and  said,  that  he  perceived  Mr.  Glynn  wanted 
that  court  to  retry  the  judgment  of  the  House  of  Commons  touching  the 
case  of  the  Middlesex  election:  That  is,  said  his  lordship,  he  wants  to 
pro  that  the  legislature  is  dissolved;  and  that  all  the  acts  of  parliament 
made  since  the  year  1769  are  void  The  evidence  which  Mr.  Glynn  wants 
t^  oroduce  is  not  by  law  admissible,  and  1  will  not  suffer  it  to  be  given. — 
"Gentlemen  of  the  jury,  you  will  find  lor  the  defendant." — The  clerk 
then  hurried  over  the  form,  and  said, — "  Gentlemen  of  the  jury,  hearken 

t« 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  357 

contaminating  object?  The  introduction  of  Mr.  Wilkes  into 
the  house  is  in  itself  a  circumstance  of  little  importance.  If 
parliament  and  the  county  of  Middlesex  had  gone  on  in  an 
eternal  circulation  of  expulsions  and  returns,  the  essence  of 
that  assembly  would  not  have  been  affected.  The  indispen- 
sable point  is,  that  the  corrupt  member  should  be  lopped  off; 
a  point  that  will  hardly  be  compassed  by  an  event  of  such 
indifference  to  the  public  as  the  mere  seating  Mr.  Wilkes  in 
the  House  of  Commons  a  representative  of  the  city  of 
London. 

Upon  the  plan  of  your  correspondent  the  prosecutors,  in- 
deed, will  be  changed,  but  the  cause  will  still  be  the  same. 
It  is  in  the  power  of  administration  alone  to  vary  and  ex- 
tend the  cause  by  arbitrarily  incapacitating  another  member 
legally  elected;  a  measure  which  they  do  in  truth  "  tremble 
at  the  thoughts  of." 

In  conclusion:  the  restoration  of  parliament  must  begin  in 
the  person  of  Mr.  Luttr'ell;  nor  can  the  injury  to  the  people 
of  England  be  heightened  in  the  person  of  Mr.  Wilkes. 
Every  county,  every  borough,  is  already  as  essentially  af- 
fected as  the  county  of  Middlesex.  It  is  an  eternal  truth  in 
the  political  as  well  as  the  mystical  body,  that "  where  one 
member  suffers,  all  the  members  suffer  with  it." 

I  am, 
A  LABOURER  IN  THE  SAME  CAUSE. 

to  your  verdict,  &c.  you  find  for  the  defendant,  and  so  you  say  all." 

Whereupon  one  of  the  jury,  Mr.  Long,  said  that  he  did  not  consent  to  that 
verdict.  This  dissent  caused  some  embarrassment  to  Lord  Mansfield, 
which  he  soon  got  over  by  saying,  "  Gentlemen,  you  are  sworn  to  give  a 
verdict  according  to  the  evidence;  now  no  evidence  has  been  produced  to  you 
against  the  defendant;  therefore  you  must  find  for  him.  You  cannot  try 
facts  by  notoriety,  that  is  not  law,  you  must  go  by  evidence,  and  you  have 
heard  no  evidence,  you  must  find  for  the  defendant." 
The  jury  accordingly  acquitted  the  defendant.  Edit. 


i58  MISCELLANEOUS 


LETTER  LXXIII. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC  ADVERTISER. 

Southampton-street,  Bloomsbury,  27  June,  1770. 
Sir, 
Having  to  my  great  surprize  seen  in  a  letter  published 
in  your  paper  of  yesterday,  signed  ^  in  the  Corner,  the  fol- 
lowing paragraph: 

"  When  Mr.  Cooper  mentioned  to  Mr.  Bradshaw  an 
intention  of  lodging  a  complaint  against  him,  he  burst  into 
tears." 

I  think  myself  bound  in  honour  and  in  justice  to  declare, 
that  the  whole  of  this  assertion  is  false  and  groundless:  I 
never  mentioned  to  Mr.  Bradshaw  any  intention  of  lodging 
a  complaint  against  him;  I  never  heard  of  any  such  inten- 
tion; and  I  do  not  know  of  any  circumstance  whatsoever  that 
can  justify  the  least  imputation  op  Mr.  Bradshaw  of  the 
nature  intended  to  be  conveyed  by  the  said  letter. 
I  am,  Sir, 

Your  humble  servant, 

GREY  COOPER. 


LETTER  LXXIV. 

10  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC  ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  30  June,  1770. 

I  received  the  circumstance  of  Mr.  Bradshaw's  having 
burst  into  tears  from  an  authority  which  I  thought  at  least 
equal  to  Mr.  Cooper's,  and  therefore  I  believed  and  asserted 
it.  I  now  perceive  that  I  was  mistaken,  do  willingly  give  up 
so  capital  a.  point  in  Mr.  Bradshaw's  case,  and  join  with  his 
honourable  friend  in  declaring,  that  he  has  not  wept  at  all 
about  the  matter. 

I  have  a  high  opinion  of  Mr.  Cooper's  integrity,  but  a 
much  higher  of  Mr.  Bradshaw's.  I  find  the  fair  image  of 
truth  in  the  first,  in  the  last  I  expect  to  meet  an  oracle.  Why 
will  not  Mr.  Bradshaw  be  so  obliging  as  to  step  forward, 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  359 

and  declare  upon  his  honour,  that  he  "  does  not  know  of  any 
circumstance  whatsoever  that  can  justify  the  least  imputation 
on  him  of  the  nature  which  seems  to  Mr.  Cooper  to  have 
been  conveyed  by  a  letter  in  this  paper." 

I  allow  Mr.  Cooper's  evidence  as  far  as  it  relates  to  the 
falling  of  some  few  tears  to  be  entirely  decisive;  but  I  am 
not  so  courtlv  as  to  infer  from  Mr.  Cooper's  absolute  igno- 
rance of  the  subject  an  equal  one  in  Mr.  Bradshaw.  It  is 
from  Mr.  Bradshaw,  who  must  know  something  more  of  the 
matter  than  Mr.  Cooper,  that  I  expect  to  be  told,  that  no 
board  was  ever  held  at  which  this  particular  subject  was  in- 
troduced, and  that  Mr.  Allenby  was  not  at  that  time  present. 

May  I  presume  humbly  to  inquire  of  Mr.  Bra'dshaw  if 
Mr.  Dyson  did  not  at  that  time  examine  Mrs.  Allenby;  if  he 
did  not  attempt  to  brow-beat  her;  and  if  a  noble  lord  had  not 
the  humanity  to  interfere? 

After  all,  it  may  be  worth  remarking,  that  Mr.  Cooper's 
testimony  seems  to  relate  only  to  his  oxvn  intentions  with  re- 
spect to  lodgi'  g  a  complaint,  and  his  own  ideas  of  the  impu- 
tations that  should  arise  from  transactions  of  this  nature. 

I  am,  Sir, 

Your  humble  servant, 
Q  IN  THE  CORNER 


LETTER  LXXV. 

For  the  Public  Advertiser. 

7  July,  1770- 

TO  THOMAS  BRADSHAW,  ESQ. 

Your  honourable  colleague,  Mr.  Cooper,  bore  witness  to 
your  innocence.  So  full  a  vindication  was  superfluous.  I 
dare  answer  for  it,  that  the  opinion  which  the  public  had  con- 
ceived of  you)  integrity  is  still  unaltered;  it  could  not  have 
been  lessened  although  your  champion  never  had  appeared; 
nor  has  his  entrance  within  the  lists  at  all  increased  it.  I  took 
the  liberty  to  appeal  from  his  decision  to  your  own:  you  seem 
determined  to  be  silent.  Perhaps  the  rigour  of  your  situation 


360  MISCELLANEOUS 

deprives  you  of  any  choice  between  the  sacrifice  of  truth  and 
of  yourself.  You  nobly  hesitate  to  make  the  first,  and  tacitly 
confess,  that  in  one  heedless  moment  throughout  a  life  of  un- 
polluted honesty  you  may  have  been  to  blame.  Perhaps  you 
do  not  think  it  quite  ineligible  to  let  this  matter  die  away. 
Consult  the  feelings  of  your  heart,  and  they  will  tell  you  that 
the  public  forms  of  justice  can  avail  but  little.  They  will  not 
either  yield  a  shelter  to  yourself,  or  enable  you  to  direct  the 
storm  against  another.  I  have  not  written  from  conjecture, 
nor  can  you  be  ignorant  that  I  have  drawn  my  intelligence 
from  its  first  source,  and  not  the  common  falsities  of  the  day. 
There  is  a  place  which  once  was  called  the  House  of  Prayer; 
I  leave  ft  to  men  more  versed  in  scripture  phrases  than  my- 
self to  tell  you  what  it  is  at  present.  Should  you  hereafter 
think  it  proper  to  discuss  this  subject  there,  you  possibly 
may  find  an  individual  in  that  virtuous  congregation  who  will 
assist  the  hitherto  ineffectual  inquiries  of 

Q  IN  THE  CORNER. 


LETTER  LXXVI. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 

Sir,  7  July,  1770. 

I  find  myself  engaged  at  once  with  two  antagonists  of 
very  different  complexions.  I  must  content  myself,  however, 
with  opposing  the  same  obvious  reasoning  of  a  plain  man,  to 
the  cool  circumspect  address  of  The  fellow  labourer  in  the 
public  cause,  and  to  the  rapid,  eager  precipitation  of  his  sup- 
porter. The  latter  of  these  gentlemen,  with  a  temperance 
that  does  not  seem  to  belong  to  him,  is  peremptorily  of 
opinion,  "  that  when  a  particular  injustice  is  founded  on,  and 
supported  by  a  general  principle,  the  appeal  should  no  longer 
be  made  to  the  passions,  but  to  the  wisdom  of  the  people." 
The  reverse  is,  I  believe,  invariably  true.  Prudence  may  in- 
cline us  to  forget  the  injury  of  a  moment,  the  impulse  of 
passion,  or  the  suggestion  of  caprice.  Let  the  same  injury  be 
offered  to  us  with  all  the  insolence  of  authority,  or  even  let 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  361 

the  authority  be  pretended  to  without  any  actual  exertion, 
and  wisdom  herself  shall  call  forth  every  passion  to  resist  it. 

A  simple  tax  of  a  few  shillings,  illegally  extorted,  was 
sufficient  to  enlighten  the  understandings  of  the  whole  na- 
tion. Every  body  perceived  that  one  such  instance,  support- 
ing itself  on  a  general  claim,  was  equivalent  to,  and  (like  an 
universal  proposition),  comprehended  a  thousand.  It  did  not 
require  the  sagacity  of  a  Hampden  to  deduce  the  conse- 
quences; but  it  called  for  all  his  spirit  to  oppose  them. 

I  am  ready  to  acknowledge,  that "  in  rigorous  consistency 
the  city  of  London  ought  not  to  return  any  representative" 
to  St.  Stephen's  chapel;  I  am  more  ready  to  dispense  with 
"  the  attendance  of  some  of  the  present  city  members."  But 
I  am  still  willing  to  admit  the  necessity  of  their  departing  a 
little  from  that  rigour — because  I  see  no  medium  between 
such  a  temporary  accommodation,  and  either  the  miseries  of 
civil  bloodshed,  or  (what  is  infinitely  more  to  be  deprecated), 
the  established  tranquillity  of  servitude. 

The  right  of  resistance  on  the  part  of  the  people,  is  the 
ultimate  sanction  of  our  civil  liberties.  But  God  forbid  that 
we  should  be  too  critically  exact  in  defining  the  precise 
boundary  where  the  exertion  of  that  right  becomes  a  duty. 
The  distresses  of  an  intestine  war  are  known,  and  inevitable] 
the  event  precarious.  It  may  be  better  to  submit,  for  a  time, 
to  whatever  irregularity  in  the  most  essential  part  of  the 
state,  than  instantly  to  seek  redress  by  violence.  Every  other 
conceivable  method  ought  first  to  be  eagerly  adopted,  and 
earnestly  pursued.  Something  may  be  expected  from  time, 
from  impunity,  from  fear;  perhaps  something  even  from  con- 
science and  remorse.  And  if,  at  length,  without  coming  to 
extremities,  the  integrity  of  the  legislature  should  be  restored, 
the  tyrannical  decisions  of  an  unauthorized  assembly  will  of 
course  be  abrogated;  their  useful  acts  may  receive  a  ratifica- 
tion from  a  legitimate  parliament. 

You  perceive,  Sir,  that  I  am  not  here  maintaining  the  doc- 
trine asserted  in  the  city  remonstrance,  but  arguing  from  it. 
Yet  I  must  beg  leave  to  observe,  that  the  distinction  intro- 
duced by  this  correspondent,  between  a  speculative  and  a 

Vol,  11=  2  Z 


362  MISCELLANEOUS 

practical  parliament,  a  parliament  de  jure  and  de  facta,  is 
equally  novel  and  monstrous.  On  this  account  I  cannot  but 
be  of  opinion  that  the  city  should  adhere  to  their  constitu- 
tional speculation,  and  insist  that  Mr.  Wilkes  is  actual  re- 
presentative of  Middlesex;  although  they  may  without  blame, 
perhaps,  acquiesce,  for  a  time,  in  the  proceedings  of  an 
assembly,  to  which  they  cannot  even  allow  the  rank  of  a 
convention. 

For  the  sake  of  peace  they  may  be  justified  in  returning 
Mr.  Oliver.  For  the  sake  not  merely  of  consistency,  but  of 
the  safety  and  dignity  of  thf>  state,  Mr.  Wilkes  must  not  be 
allowed  to  quit  "  the  sure  ground  on  which  he  stands,"  to 
borrow  an  expression  of  his  own  in  an  address  to  his  con- 
stituents. 

But,  it  seems,  "  if  Mr.  Wilkes  were  returned  by  the  city, 
and  admitted  to  take  his  seat,  the  unconstitutional  principle 
would  be  ipso  facto  overturned."  Let  us  see,  then,  how  the 
argument  will  stand.  If  the  admission  of  Mr.  Wilkes  would 
ipso  facto  overturn  the  unconstitutional  principle,  undoubt- 
edly the  continuation  of  Mr.  Luttrell  must  ipso  facto  perpe- 
tuate it. — What  is  this  but  to  make  the  House  of  Commons 
such  an  absurd  monster  in  politics,  as  has  never  yet  dis- 
graced the  reason  or  the  patience  of  mankind:  a  legislative 
body  subsisting  by  two  principles  (each  in  its  full  force  and 
energy)  equal,  contrary,  and  mutually  destructive. 

The  Fellow -labourer  of  this  day  has,  indeed,  candidly  ad- 
mitted, that  the  extermination  of  Mr.  Luttrell  is  the  indis- 
pensable  point,  if  your  other  correspondent,  who  absolutely 
denies  the  position,  will  indulge  me  the  phrase.  Mr.  Luttrell 
holds  his  seat  by  a  very  different  title  from  a  common  deter- 
mination in  the  case  of  a  contested  return.  In  the  latter  in- 
stance, the  jurisdiction  of  the  house  is  competent;  nor  has 
the  constitution  hitherto  provided  an  appeal  from  their  deci- 
sion. In  the  case  before  us,  a  new  and  unheard  of  power  is 
supposed  to  be  usurped,  and  rights  beyond  the  reach  of  the 
whole  legislature,  I  mean  the  fundamental  rights  of  the  peo- 
ple, invaded  by  a  third  part  of  it.  By  this  invasion  Mr.  Lut- 
trell was  seated;  upon  this  principle  the  return  was  amend- 


LETTERS  OI<  JUNIUS.  363 

ed  by  the  house,  and  his  name  inserted;  and  it  is  in  conse- 
quence of  that  alteration  that  he  still  ranks  as  a  member  of 
parliament.  As  long,  therefore,  as  he  shall  be  permitted  to 
sit  there,  so  long  will  the  principle  be  in  force.  For  in  the 
House  of  Commons,  as  in  every  other  court,  prove  the  juris- 
diction to  be  incompetent  to  the  case,  and  the  adjudication 
falls  to  the  ground. 

It  appears  to  me  that  both  your  correspondents  have  con- 
templated this  subject  in  too  confined  a  view.  For  my  own 
part,  I  think  too  highly  of  Mr.  Wilkes's  services  to  the  state, 
and  of  the  sacredness  of  our  common  cause,  to  wish  either 
one  or  the  other  to  be  made  a  mere  engine  of  party,  or  a 
scarecrow  of  opposition.  But  since  the  gentlemen  from  whom 
I  dissent  have  delivered  their  sentiments  concerning  the 
effect  which  the  proposed  measure  would  probably  produce 
in  the  House  of  Commons  and  in  ministry,  I  too,  in  my  turn, 
will  venture  to  pronounce,  that  nothing  is  so  ardently  de- 
sired by  either,  as  a  separation  bettueen  the  county  of  Middle- 
sex and  Mr.  Wilkes. 

I  am,  Sir, 

Your  humble  Servant, 
A  LABOURER  IN  THE  SAME  CAUSE. 


LETTER  LXXVII. 

TO   THE    PRINTER    OF    THE    PUBLIC    ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  19  November,  1770. 

A  few  days  ago  I  was  in  a  large  public  company,  where 
there  happened  some  curious  conversation.  The  secretary  at 
war*  was  pleased  to  express  himself  with  unusual  simplicity 
and  candour.  He  assured  us  that,  after  having  carefully  con- 
sidered the  subject,  he  did  not  know  a  single  general  officer 
(out  of  near  an  hundred  now  in  the  service)  who  was  in  any 
shape  qualified  to  command  the  army;  and  for  fear  we  should 
not  believe  him,  repeated  and  inforced  his  assertion  five 
several  times.  You  will  allow,  Sir,  that,  at  the  eve  of  a  foreign 

*  Lord  Viscount  Barrington. 


S64  MISCELLANEOUS 

war,  this  is  pretty  comfortable  intelligence  for  the  nation, 
especially  as  it  comes  from  authority.  He  gave  us  some  con- 
solation, however,  by  assuring  us  that  he  and  General  Her- 
vey  would  take  excellent  care  of  the  army,  and  compared 
himself  (not  unhappily),  to  an  old  woman  curing  an  ague 
with  the  assistance  of  Doctor  Radcliff". — I  don't  so  much 
question  Mr.  Hervey's  being  able  to  give  good  advice,  as 
that  other  little  man's  being  either  willing  or  able  to  follow 
it;  but  I  should  be  glad  to  know  which  of  them  is  to  be  re- 
sponsible to  the  country  for  the  management  of  the  army,  or 
whether  they  are  invested  with  equal  powers?  Is  Lord  Bar- 
rington  the  marksman  and  General  Herveyonly  the  stalking 
horse?  Or  does  the  latter  command,  and  that  other  only  do  as 
he  is  bid?  This  point,  I  think,  ought  to  be  explained;  for  if 
v/e  don't  know  who  commands  the  army,  and  any  mischief 
should  happen,  the  secretary  at  war  and  adjutant  general  will 
of  course  lay  the  blame  upon  each  other,  and  the  nation  never 
know  which  of  them  ought  to  be  punished. 

TESTIS. 


LETTER  LXXVIII. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF   THE  PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  24  November,  1770. 

I  have  never  joined  in  the  several  censures  which  have 
lately  been  thrown  upon  Lord  Barrington.  The  formal  de- 
claration he  was  pleased  to  make  (for  the  information  of  the 
House  of  Commons  and  of  this  country),  with  respect  to 
the  shameful  ignorance  and  incapacity  of  all  the  general  offi- 
cers, without  exception,  may,  for  aught  I  know,  be  extreme- 
Jy  well  founded;  and  if  it  were  not  so,  I  do  not  consider  the 
viscount  as  a  free  agent.  He  undoubtedly  meant  no  more 
than,  as  a  dutiful  servant,  to  obey  the  orders,  and  to  express 
the  sentiments  of  his  royal  master.  The  secretary  at  war,  it 
is  true,  has  a  multitude  of  enemies,  but  the  bitterest  of  them 
will  not  affirm,  that  he  is  positively  an  idiot,  without  a  single 
ray  of  understanding.  That  would  be  going  a  little  too  far. 
Yet  he  must  certainly  be  the  very  weakest  of  the  human  spe- 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  365 

cies,  if  without  any  plan  or  purpose  whatsoever,  he  loaded 
himself  with  the.  hatred  and  resentment  of  so  large  and  pow- 
erful a  body  of  men  as  the  general  officers.  This,  I  think,  is 
too  absurd  to  be  supposed.  Yet  I  do  not  pretend  to  deny  the 
fact.  On  the  contrary,  I  mean  to  account  for  it  upon  clear 
and  rational  principles.— If  it  be  the  king's  intention  (as  we 
have  sufficient  reason  to  think  it  is)  to  govern  the  army  him- 
self, (by  which  means  the  disposal  of  commissions,  like 
every  thing  else,  will  ultimately  centre  in  Carlton-House;) 
the  first  step  is  to  possess  the  public  with  an  opinion,  that 
this  measure  is  not  of  choice  but  necessity.  When  the 
secretary  at  war  has  informed  the  House  of  Commons,  in 
the  name  of  his  gracious  master  (for  it  is  not  to  be  suspected 
that  he  spoke  for  himself,)  that  all  his  general  officers  were 
no  better  than  drivellers,  it  follows  of  course  that  the  secre- 
tary at  war,  with  the  adjutant  general's  advice,  must  be  the 
ostensible  manager  of  the  army;  and  then  you  see,  Sir,  every 
thing  goes  on,  as  her  royal  highness  the  Princess  dowager 
of  Wales  would  have  it. 

Far  be  it  from  me  to  impeach  his  Majesty's  judgment  in 
military  matters.  Our  gracious  sovereign  cannot  possibly 
have  a  meaner  opinion  of  his  general  officers  than  I  have. 
Yet  I  own  there  is  one  circumstance  that  a  little  surprises 
me.  These  poor  creatures,  it  is  agreed  on  all  hands,  have 
neither  capacity  nor  experience;  but  one  would  think  that, 
as  soldiers  and  gentlemen,  they  might  shew  a  little  spirit 

when  they  are  insulted.    What, will  they  go  to  court 

again,  to  bow,  and  cringe and  fawn  upon  *  #  #  #  #  who 

orders  his  official  servant  to  point  them  out  to  their  coun- 
try, as  a  knot  of  idiots — asses — mules — beasts  of  burthen! 

This  affair,  Sir,  (as  many  other  circumstances  do,  and 
more  important  ones  may  do  hereafter)  puts  me  in  mind  of 
the  sincere,  honest,  candid  character  of  that  pious  prince, 
Charles  the  First.  When  a  great  number  of  the  first  people 
of  this  country  had  hazarded  their  lives  and  spent  their  for- 
tunes in  his  defence,  and  when,  in  the  last  instance,  they  had 
formed  a  convention  at  Oxford,  which,  if  not  a  parliament, 
was  at  least  a  meeting  highly  respectable,  what  return  did 


366  MISCELLANEOUS 

they  receive  from  that  devout,  religious,  grateful  monarch? 
He  flattered  them  to  their  faces,  and  the  ne^t  moment  wrote 
to  his  wife  that  they  were  a  base,  mutinous  set  of  mongrels, 
whom  he  was  happy  to  get  rid  of. 

TESTICULUS. 


LETTER  LXX1X. 

TO  THE  PRINTER   OF  THE  PUBLIC  ADVERTISER. 
Sib,  7  Dec.  1770. 

A  report  prevails  that  the  late  premier  is  very  soon  to 
be  placed  at  the  head  of  the  admiralty. — I  thought  Junius 
had  fairly  hissed  him  off"  the  stage.  But  since  he  adventures 
again  to  appear  before  the  public,  let  me  do  justice  to  his 
modesty  and  commend  him  for  his  discretion  in  sinking  to 
an  inferior  character.  I  should  be  sorry  to  interrupt  so  natu- 
ral a  descent.  By  dropping  gradually  from  part  to  part,  he 
may  in  time  arrive  at  something  that  will  suit  his  capacity. 
Besides  the  moral  fitness  of  reducing  all  men  to  their  pro- 
per level,  there  will  be  a  novelty  in  the  public  entertainment, 
when  we  see  the  same  wretched  stroller,  who  strutted  yes- 
terday in  Othello,  creeping  upon  the  stage  to-day  in  the 
shape  of  a  candle-snuffer. 

In  the  article  of  firmness  I  think  this  young  man's  cha- 
racter is  universally  given  up;  but  I  observe  there  is  still  an 
opinion  maintained  by  some  people,  that,  in  point  of  ability, 
he  is  not  deficient.  For  my  own  part,  Sir,  I  never  could  dis- 
cover upon  what  foundation  that  opinion  rested.  Let  it  be 
fairly  tried  by  the  two  great,  decisive  tests  of  the  human  un- 
derstanding— conduct  and  discourse.  These,  I  know,  are 
sometimes  at  variance  with  each  other.  An  ingenious  man 
may  act  very  absurdly,  and  we  frequently  see  a  dull  fellow 
conduct  himself  with  firmness  and  propriety.  It  is  the  duke's 
misfortune  that  he  fails  equally  in  both  articles; — that  he 
neither  acts  with  judgment,  nor  speaks  with  ability.  Look 
at  his  conduct  from  the  outset; — I  mean  with  a  reference 
not  to  the  treachery,  but  to  the  folly  of  the  man.  His  ear- 
liest personal  attachment  in  life  was  to  the  Duke  .of  Port- 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  367 

land;— that  friendship  he  has  foolishly  dissolved,  without 
succeeding  in  his  purpose  to  oblige  Sir  James  Lowther.— 
His  first  public  connexion  was  with  Lord  Rockingham. 
That  too  is  lost,  together  with  the  friendship  of  Lord  Chat- 
ham, for  which  he  sacrificed  the  marquis.  For  the  solidity 
of  his  union  with  Lord  Chatham  he  pledged  himself  to  the 
public  by  some  very  uncommon  declarations  both  abroad 
and  in  parliament.  Yet  from  this  union,  and  his  subsequent 
friendship  with  Lord  Granby  and  Lord  Camden,  the  cajol- 
lery  of  the  closet  soon  seduced  him.  His  easy  virtue  is  not 
made  for  resistance. — To  support  his  last  plan,  we  have  seen 
him  renounce  not  only  all  these  successive  connexions,  but 
every  political  idea,  opinion,  and  principle  of  his  former  life, 
and  throw  himself,  body  and  soul,  into  the  arms  of  the  Bed- 
fords.  Here  at  least  he  might  have  stopped,  since  there  was 
not  another  party  in  the  kingdom  to  which  it  was  possible 
for  him  to  transfer  his  affections.  He  had  gone  resolutely 
through  the  whole  drudgery  of  the  Middlesex  election.  He 
had  paid  Governor  Burgoyne's  expenses  very  handsomely 
by  the  sale  of  that  patent  to  Mr.  Hine,  which  the  right  ho- 
nonourable  the  House  of  Commons  have  not  yet  thought 
proper  to  inquire  into.  He  had  shewn  fortitude  enough  to 
drop  the  prosecution  of  Mr.  Vaughan,  though  urged,  in- 
sulted, braved  to  it  by  every  stimulus  that  could  touch  the 
feelings  of  a  man;  and,  in  conclusion,  he  had  made  himself 
accessory  to  the  untimely  death  of  Mr.  Yorke. — I  say  «c- 
cessory,  because  he  was  certainly  not  the  principal  actor  in 
that  most  atrocious  business.  After  all,  Sir,  when  it  was  im- 
possible for  him  to  add  to  his  guiltiness,  a  panic  seizes  him, 
he  begins  to  measure  his  expectations  by  the  sense  of  his 
deserts,  a  visionary  gibbet  appears  before  his  eyes,  he  flies 
from  his  post,  surrenders  to  another  the  reward  due  to  his 
honourable  services,  and  leaves  his  king  and  country  to  ex- 
tricate themselves,  if  they  can,  from  the  distress  and  con- 
fusion in  which  he  had  involved  them. 

The  danger,  as  he  conceives,  being  now  pretty  well  over, 
what  plan  do  you  think  this  worthy,  resolute  young  man 
pursues  at  present?  While  he  was  first  lord  of  the  treasury, 


568  MISCELLANEOUS 

it  is  well  known,  (and  I  speak  from  knowledge  when  I 
assert)  that  he  never  treated  Lord  North  even  with  the 
Common  civility  due  to  his  clerk.  I  appeal  to  Lord  North 
himself,  and  to  every  clerk  in  the  treasury  (particularly  to 
Grey  Cooper)  whether  it  was  not  known  to  be  a  difficult 
matter  for  the  chancellor  of  the  exchequer  to  obtain  an 
audience  even  of  Mr.  Thomas  Bradshaw.  Would  you  be- 
lieve it  possible,  Sir,  that,  after  these  facts,  this  very  Duke 
of  Grafton  can  be  so  degraded,  so  lost  to  every  sensation  of 
pride,  of  dignity,  and  decorum,  as  to  be  a  suppliant  beggar 
for  employment  to  this  very  Lord  North?  Yet  so  it  is;  and, 
if  I  were  to  tell  you  with  what  circumstances  of  humiliation 
he  accompanies  his  suit  to  the  minister,  the  narrative  would 
be  nauseous  and  fulsome.  He  is  so  very  impatient  to  be  first 
lord  of  the  admiralty,  that  Lord  North  can  hardly  keep  the 
fawning  creature  from  under  his  feet. — Now,  Sir,  let  any 
man  living,  I  care  not  whether  friend  or  foe,  review  this 
summary  of  his  life,  and  tell  us  in  what  instance  he  has  dis- 
covered a  single  ray  of  wisdom,  solidity,  or  judgment? 

As  to  the  other  test  of  his  abilities,  I  mean  his  talent  for 
talking  in  public,  I  can  speak  with  greater  precision,  for  I 
have  often  had  the  honour  of  hearing  him.  With  a  very  so- 
lemn and  plausible  delivery,  he  has  a  set  of  thoughts,  or 
rather  of  words  resembling  thoughts,  which  may  be  applied 
indifferently,  and  with  equal  success  to  all  possible  subjects. 
There  is  this  singular  advantage  in  his  grace's  method  of 
discourse,  that,  if  it  were  once  admitted  that  he  spoke  well 
upon  any  one  given  topic,  it  would  inevitably  follow  that  he 
was  qualified  to  deliver  himself  happily  upon  every  subject 
whatsoever.  He  would  be  ipso  facto  an  universal  orator. 
Accept  of  the  following  specimen  of  his  grace's  eloquence, 
and,  I  promise  you,  you  will  be  as  well  able  to  judge  of  his 
oratorial  powers,  as  if  you  had  heard  him  a  thousand  times. 
"  My  lords, 

"  When  I  came  into  the  house  this  day,  I  protest  I  did 
not  think  it  possible, — indeed  I  had  formed  in  my  own  breast 
a  resolution  to  the  contrary — but,  my  lords,  I  really  thought 
it  impossible  that  I  should  be  compelled  to  trouble  your  lord- 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  369 

ships  with  my  poor  thoughts  upon  the  question  before  your 
lordships. — I  never  do  presume  to  trouble  your  lordships  at 
any  time  without  always  feeling  a  pain, — an  internal  regret, 
—a  degree  of  uneasiness,  which  I  can  with  truth  assure  your 
lordships,  (and  I  flatter  myself  that  I  shall  find  credit  with 
every  noble  lord,  who  hears  me,)  it  is  not  easy  for  me  to 
have  the  honour  of  describing  to  your  lordships.  My  lords, 
I  am  called  upon,  as  I  humbly  conceive,  and  I  appeal  bold- 
ly not  only  to  the  candour  of  noble  lords,  but  to  your  lord- 
ships' severest  judgment,  whether  I  am  not  compelled  to 
declare  my  sentiments,  as  explicitly  as  I  now  do,  upon  the 
motion  upon  your  lordships'  table.  Upon  this  ground,  my 
lords,  I  meet  the  noble  lord  without  fear,  though  I  respect 
his  superior  abilities,  and  I  pledge  w?z/self  to  your  lordships 
for  the  truth  of  what  I  assert.  Otherwise,  my  lords,  if  facts 
were  not  as  I  have  stated  them,  where  will  your  lordships 
draw  the  line?  My  lords,  I  am  really  astonished, — yet  in- 
deed, my  lords,  I  ought  not  to  be  astonished.  The  question 
has  been  handled  with  so  much  ability  bv  other  noble  lords, 
that  I  shall  content  mz/self  with  this  simple,  unadorned  de- 
claration of  my  opinion.  Yet  I  could  quote  cases,  my  lords, 
which  I  accidentally  met  with  this  morning  in  the  course  of 
my  reading,  which,  I  doubt  not,  would  convince  your  lord- 
ships, if  conviction  were  in  question.  But  I  fear  I  have  trou- 
bled your  lordships  too  long.  I  shall  therefore  return  to  the 
leading  proposition,  which  I  had  the  honour  of  setting  out 
with,  and  move  for  an  immediate  adjournment." 

This  style,  I  apprehend,  Sir,  is  what  the  learned  Scrible- 
rus  calls  rigmarol  in  logic, — riddlemeree  among  schoolboys, 
and  in  vulgar  acceptation,  Three  blue  beans  in  a  blue  bladder. 
It  is  the  perpetual  parturience  of  a  mountain,  and  the  never- 
failing  delivery  of  a  mouse. 

I  am,  Sir, 

Your  humble  servant, 

DOMITIAN. 

Vol.  II.  3  A 


370  MISCELLANEOUS 

LETTER  LXXX. 

For  the  Public  Advertiser. 

13  Dec.  1770. 

CHAPTER  OF  FACTS,  OR  MATERIALS  FOR  HISTORY. 

1.  The  House  of  Lords,  justly  offended  at  the  accuracy 
and  precision,  with  which  a  certain  noble  duke's  oration* 
has  been  delivered  to  the  public,  and  concluding  that  the 
verv  words  must  have  been  taken  down  in  writing,  by  some 
foreign  enemy,  have  determined  to  preserve  the  honour  of 
their  members,  and  the  credit  of  their  eloquence,  by  order- 
ing all  strangers  to  be  carefully  excluded. 

2.  But  not  to  give  offence,  the  exclusion  is  made  general; 
their  lordships  very  properly  considering  that  the  members 
of  the  House  of  Commons  are  no  more  fit  to  be  trusted  with 
the  debates  of  a  public  assembly,  than  the  spies  or  emissa- 
ries of  a  foreign  ambassador,  or  so  many  Jesuits  in  disguise. 

3.  The  right  honourable  the  speaker  of  the  House  of 
Lords  was  pleased  to  summon  all  the  lords  to  attend  on 
Monday  last,  on  purpose  to  inform  their  lordships  col- 
lectively in  what  corner  of  the  house  each  lord  separately 
might  find  waste  paper  for  his  necessary  occasions.  N.  B. 
It  seems  to  be  the  fate  of  this  unhappy  paper  (which  always 
brings  nasty  ideas  with  it)  to  be  produced  in  a  most  un- 
seemly manner.  In  the  court  of  King's  Bench,  the  intro- 
duction of  it  was  allowed  to  be  irregular,  unprecedented, 
and  extrajudicial. — In  the  House  of  Lords,  it  was  only 
silly  and  ridiculous. — What  a  strange  antipathy  some  men 
have  to  a  record!  When  they  dare  not  erase,  they  fairly  take 
post  and  travel  out  of  it. 

4.  The  bill  for  regulating  contested  elections  was  strenu- 
ously opposed  by  Lord  North  and  the  rest  of  the  king's  ser- 
vants. Yet  every  one  of  the  Judges  who  went  the  circuit 
last  summer,  instead  of  instructing  the  several  grand  juries 
in  the  old,  legal,  constitutional  way,  were  ordered  to  sound 
the  praises  of  the  House  of  Commons  for  their  singular  vir- 

*  See  the  preceding  letter.  Edit. 


LETTERS  OP  JUNIUS.  37I 

tue  in  passing  this  and  the  privilege  bill.  And  now  let  it  be 
observed,  that,  in  the  first  instance  of  the  operation  of  this 
new  law  (the  Shoreham  election)  not  one  of  the  ministers 
attended.  Yet,  intrusted  as  they  are  with  the  executive 
power  of  the  state,  it  is  their  particular  duty  to  attend,  to 
facilitate,  and  inforce  the  execution  of  the  laws: — and  these 
are  the  people  who  deafen  us  with  their  complaints  of  the 
licentiousness  of  the  times,  and  the  total  want  of  respect 
into  which  the  laws  are  fallen. 

5.  So  far  from  performing  this  duty,  it  is  a  fact  notorious 
that  one  Purling,  a  Caribbee,  has  been  encouraged  by  minis- 
try to  introduce  a  third  candidate  at  Shoreham,  and  to  give 
him  four  of  his  own  votes,  in  order  that  by  having  two  peti- 
tions preferred  (a  case  not  expressly  provided  for  by  the  act) 
this  wise,  this  salutary  law  may  be  defeated  in  the  first 
instance,  and  have  a  contempt  thrown  upon  it. 

6.  Let  it  be  known  to  posterity  that  when  Lord  Mans- 
field was  attacked  with  so  much  vehemence  in  the  House  of 
Commons  on  Thursday  the  6th  instant,  not  one  of  the  mi- 
nistry said  a  word  in  his  defence.  Nobody  spoke  for  him 
but  the  Carlton-house  junto — Jenkinson  and  Sir  Gilbert. 
(N.  B.  Mungo  is  sick.~)  Even  Mr.  George  Onslow,  who  in 
general  is  not  very  scrupulous,  confined  himself  to  the  de- 
fence of  Mr.  Baron  Smythe,  and  did  not  utter  a  syllable  in 
favour  of  poor  Mansfield.  These  facts  shew  plainly,  1.  How 
the  Carlton-house  connexion  hangs  together.  2.  That  Lord 
North  himself  is  not  over  and  above  pleased  with  the  closet 
influence  of  the  chief  juggler. 

The  great  Lord  Camden  did  yesterday  (11th  of  Decem- 
ber, 1770)  address  himself  directly  to  Lord  Mansfield,  and 
declare  that  he  considered  the  paper  delivered  in  by  that 
Lord  as  a  challenge  to  himself,  which  he  accepted,  that  the 
glove  was  thrown  down,  and  he  took  it  up. — That  he  was 
ready  to  meet  him  in  defence  of  the  laws  of  this  country, 
and  vehemently  urged  that  a  day  might  be  fixed  for  debating 
the  matter.  But  notwithstanding  every  possible  instance 
made  by  the  minority  lords,  the  chief  justice  shrunk  from 
the  combat,  and  would  not  fix  any  day. 


372  MISCELLANEOUS 


LETTER  LXXXI. 

For  the  Public  Advertiser. 

14  Dec.  1779. 
SECOND  CHAPTER  OF  FACTS,  OR  MATERIALS  FOR 
HISTORY. 

1.  The  Earl  of  Chatham  having  asserted,  on  Tuesday 
last,  in  the  House  of  Lords,  that  Gibraltar  was  open  to  an 
attack  from  the  sea,  and  that,  if  the  enemy  were  masters  of 
the  bay,  the  place  could  not  make  any  long  resistance,  he 
was  answered  in  the  following  words  by  that  great  statesman 
thf  Earl  of  Sandwich:  "  Supposing  the  noble  lord's  argu- 
ment to  be  well  founded,  and  supposing  Gibraltar  to  be  now 
unluckily  taken,  still,  according  to  the  noble  lord's  own  doc- 
trine, it  would  be  no  great  matter.  For  although  we  are  not 
masters  of  the  sea  at  present,  we  probabh  shall  be  so  some- 
time or  other,  and  then,  rpy  lords,  there  will  be  no  difficulty 
in  retaking  Gibraltar."  N.  B.  This  earl  is  a  privy  counsel- 
lor, and  appeared  to  have  concerted  this  satisfactory  answer 
with  Peg  Trentham  at  the  fire-side. 

2.  Sir  Edward  Hawke,  on  Wednesday  last,  gave  the 
House  of  Commons  a  very  pompous  account  of  the  fleet. 
Being  asked  why,  if  our  navy  was  so  numerous  and  ready 
for. service,  a  squadron  was  not  sent  to  Gibraltar  and  the 
W  st  Indies?  his  answer  was  candid: — *•*  That  for  his  part 
he  did  not  understand  sending  ships  abroad,  when,  for  aught 
he  knew,  they  might  be  wanted  to  defend  our  own  coast."— 
Such  is  the  care  taken  of  our  possessions  abroad! — One  great 
minister  tells  us  they  may  be  easily  retaken; — another  assures 
us  that  they  cannot  be  defended.  Will  that  man  who  sleep- 
cth  never  awake,  until  destruction  comes  upon  him!  Has  he 
no  frien  I,  no  servant,  to  draw  his  curtain,  until  Troy  is 
actually  in  flames! 

3.  Lord  North  informed  the  House  of  Commons  on 
Wednesday  that,  although  he  wished  for  an  honourable  ac- 
commodation, he  thought  it  his  duty  to  tell  the  house,  that 
he  feared  war  was  too  probable:  that  he  intended  to  move 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  373 

for  a  farther  augmentation  of  ten  thousand  seamen,  and 
that,  at  any  rate,  he  should  advise  the  keeping  up  the  nnval 
and  military  force  upon  the  augmented  establishment,  for 
that,  notwithstanding  the  language  held  by  the  French  and 
Spanish  ministers,  there  was,  all  over  France  and  Spain,  the 
greatest  appearance  of  hostile  preparations. 

4.  The  riot  in  the  House  of  Lords  has  shocked  the  deli- 
cacy of  Sir  Fletcher  Norton.  Upon  occasion  of  some  clamour 
yesterday,  he  called  to  them  with  all  the  softness  of  a  bas- 
soon ;  pray,  gentlemen,  be  orderly;  you  are  almost  as  bad  as  the 
other  house. 

5.  On  Tuesday  last,  Lord  Camden  delivered  into  the 
House  of  Lords  a  paper  containing  three  questions,  relative 
to  the  doctrine  laid  down  in  Lord  Mansfield's  paper,  which 
he  desired  that  lord  would  answer,  if  he  could.  Lord  Mans- 
field was  very  angry  at  being  taken  by  surprise  upon  a  sub- 
ject he  had  never  had  an  opportunity  of  considering,  and  that 
he  valued  the  constitutional  liberty  of  the  subject  too  much 
to  answer  interrogatories. 


LETTER  LXXXII. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  17  December,  1770. 

As  far  as  assertion  goes,  no  man  argues  better  than  your 
correspondent  Nerva*.  If  we  are  contented  to  take  his 
word  for  proof,  Lord  Chatham  is  a  hare-brained,  desperate 
old  fellow,  and  Lord  Mansfield  the  very  quintessence  of  in- 
tegrity, wisdom,  moderation  and  firmness.  I  wonder  he  did 

*  Nerva  was  a  writer  in  favour  of  Lord  Mansfield  upon  the  subject  of 
his  conduct  in  the  cause  of  the  king  against  Woodfall  for  printing  J  usi  us's 
letter  to  his  Majesty;  as  well  as  for  his  posterior  proceedings  in  the 
House  of  Peers  upon  the  matter  of  this  cause;  in  the  course  of  which  he 
thought  proper,  as  has  been  observed  already,  to  summons  the  house  spe- 
cially, in  order  to  afford  him  an  opportunity  of  fully  explaining  himself 
upon  this  point;  an  opportunity,  however,  of  which  he  was  even  at  last 
afraid  to  avail  himself.  See  Vol.  I.  p.  10. 

The  letter  of  Nerva,  above  alluded  to,  was  addressed  to  Lord  Chatham, 
and  appeared  in  the  Public  Advertiser,  Dec  14,  1770.  The  following  is  a 
copy. 

For 


374  MISCELLANEOUS 

not  assure  us  on  the  same  foundation,  that  this  worthy  judge 
never  drank  the  Pretender's  health  upon  his  knees;  or  that 

For  the  Public  Advertiser. 

TO  THE  RIGHT  HON.  LORD   CHATHAM. 

My  Lord,  14  December,  1770. 

I  saw  on  Monday,  in  a  certain  great  assembly,  the  most  striking1  contrast 
of  character  that  ever  was  exhibited  on  any  public  occasion.  On  the  one 
hand,  decency,  propriety,  dignity,  wisdom  and  temper;  on  the  other,  pre- 
sumption, insolence,  absurdity,  meanness,  folly,  ignorance  and  rancour. 
Your  lordship  sat  for  one  of  the  pictures,  and  I  am  sorry  tosay,  it  was  not 
for  the  best.  To  speak  without  metaphor,  what  demon,  save  the  demon 
of  malice,  cpuld  inspire  you  with  an  objection  to  the  fair,  the  equitable  in- 
formation which  Lord  Mansfield  offered  to  the  house?  The  proposal  itself, 
the  terms  in  which  it  was  conceived,  would  have  conciliated  a  barbarian; 
but  your  animosity  is  worse  than  a  barbarian's,  and  betrays  the  principle 
from  which  it  springs!  In  an  unprecedented,  extrajudicial,  captious  and  in- 
sidious manner,  you  had  taken  occasion  to  censure  that  great  man's  opinions 
in  the  court  of  justice  where  he  presides.  Though  you  endeavoured  to 
take  him  by  surprise,  that  you  might  catch  at  some  unfair  advantage  from 
his  answer,  you  were  baffled  and  disappointed.  He  answered  you  with 
the  noble  simplicity  of  innocence,  and  the  wisdom  that  never  forsakes  the 
mens  conscia  recti.  He  fairly  stated  his  opinions,  and  the  principles  on  which 
they  were  grounded,  and,  without  recrimination,  he  threw  down  his  glove 
to  you,  and  to  all,  daring  you  to  convict  him  of  an  error,  upon  fair  and 
legal  argument. 

He  did  more;  to  prevent  that  misrepresentation  and  misconstruction 
which  might  arise  from  words  spoken,  he  delivered  to  the  house  the 
•pinion  given  by  bim  in  court  in  the  case  alluded  to  in  writing;  candidly 
and  formally  declaring,  that  he  meant  to  ground  no  motion  upon  it,  but 
merely  for  the  information  of  every  member,  that  those  who  had  not 
steeled  their  minds  against  conviction,  might  be  convinced  how  falsely  the 
censure  had  been  made,  and  that  your  lordship  and  your  party  might  have 
a  more  open  ground  of  objection  to  the  doctrine  which  the  writing  con- 
tained. 

When  I  give  this  account  of  Lord  Mansfield's  reasons  for  submitting 
this  paper  to  the  house,  I  do  wrong  to  the  moderation  of  his  expressions; 
but  I  speak  to  a  man  whose  conscience  tells  him,  that  the  distinction  be- 
tween him  and  those  who  are  open  to  conviction,  is  but  too  well  founded. 
Be  that  as  it  may,  one  would  have  thought  you  could  wish  for  nothing 
more,  than  that  a  person  whose  doctrines  you  arraigned  should  give  them 
under  his  hand,  and  dare  you  to  the  trial  of  their  truth.  Instead  of  closing 
with  the  proposal,  you  rose  up  and  objected  to  the  delivery  of  the  paper 
as  informal;  but  it  is  no  new  tiling  with  you,  after  you  have  made  a  mali- 
cious and  groundless  attack,  when  you  see  it  likely  to  produce  conse- 
quences, to  shrink  back,  and  shelter  yourself  under  some  pitiful  evasion; 

catching 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  375 

his  brother  was  not  secretary  to  that  most  catholic  prince; 
or  that  Peg  Trentham's  father  had  not  his  left  foot  in  the 

catching  at  form,  or  any  other  twig,  to  save  you  from  the  effects  of  your 
own  folly  and  ill-nature. 

But  if  you  had  made  an  end  here,  your  audience  had  gone  away,  con- 
vinced onlv,  that  you  were  happy  to  get  out  of  the  scrape  into  which  you 
liad  brought  yourself  by  your  unprecedented  and  unjust  attack  on  Lord 
Mansfield.  But  as  if  you  were  determined  that  every  man  who  hears  you 
should  bear  witness  to  your  rambling  inconsistency  and  ignorance, you  did 
not  make  an  end  here.  After  having  affirmed  that  the  paper  could  not  be 
received,  after  declaring  you  knew  not  what  was  censured  in  the  pro- 
ceedings of  the  courts  of  justice,  nor  against  whom  in  particular  that  cen- 
sure was  directed;  after  having  declared  also  your  ignorance  of  what  the 
paper  contained,  you  entered  into  a  discussion  of  its  contents.  You  said 
the  paper  contained  an  extrajudicial  and  unprecedented  opinion,  and  that 
the  judgment  was  not  warranted  by  the  record,  and  the  two  motions  on 
which  the  judgment  was  to  operate.  All  this  you  asserted  in  terms  unbe- 
coming the  place  in  which  you  stood,  unbecoming  the  person  to  which 
they  were  addressed,  and  highly  improper  to  be  used  by  one  who  spoke 
about  what  he  did  not  understand.  All  the  world  knows  that  you  are  ig- 
norant of  every  science.  This  country  severely  smarts,  and  will  long 
severely  smart  for  your  ignorance  in  politics  and  finance.  Your  ignorance 
of  the  law  may  not  perhaps  produce  such  fatal  consequences,  but  it  was 
such  on  the  occasion  I  speak  of,  that  your  dependant,  the  man  who  has 
sold  himself  to  you  soul  and  body,  who  trembles  at  his  tyrant's  frown, 
durst  not  say  a  word  in  defence  of  your  position,  nor  even,  by  a  distinction, 
endeavour  to  shade  the  glare  of  your  absurdity. 

I  know  you  are  not  ashamed  of  the  grossest  ignorance  and  absurdity; 
but  I  would  ask  you  one  question.  When  the  great  man,  whom  you  had 
treated  so  injuriously,  rose  up  to  explain,  and  with  the  most  amiable  mo- 
deration, and  intuitive  perspicuity,  pointed  out  your  mistake,  and  rectified 
your  blunder,  had  you  no  feelings  of  remorse  for  your  injustice  towards 
him?  Did  you  not  see  hotu  lovely  virtue  was,  and  mourn  your  loss?  Did  not 
the  demon  of  faction  and  malice  retire  dejected  from  your  heart,  and  leave 
you  in  the  momentary  possession  at  least  of  better  angels?  If  not,  you  are 
unhappy  indeed!  But  I  err.  Perhaps  your  familiar  whispered  to  you,  that 
your  opponent's  temper  was  an  argument  of  his  contempt;  and  to  sting  you 
to  madness,  suggested  that  you:-  brutal  violence  was  unable  to  ruffle  the 
steady  tenor  of  his  soul.  I  own  this  were  a  galling  reflection  to  a  man  of 
your  pride;  but  pride,  like  yours,  must  suffer  every  indignity. 

If  this  was  his  motive  for  calmness  and  moderation,  it  was  taking  in- 
deed vengeance,  but  a  heroic  vengeance.  Were  it  your  fortune  to  catch 
him  at  a  fair  advantage  (an  event  which  can  never  happen),  how  dif- 
ferently would  you  use  it!  With  what  vehemence  would  you  not  press  it 
home!  How  would  you  exagg-raie  <>  mofchill  to  a  mountain,  and  call 
heaven  and  earth  to  witness,  that  the  nation  was  ruined,  and  our  liberties 

at 


376  MISCELLANEOUS 

Stirrup  in  the  year  1715,  to  go  off  to  what  he  thought  the 
best  side  of  the  question:  all  this  too  I  suppose  we  shall  be 
told  is  mere  fiction,  mere  inference  of  law,  and  the  sugges- 
tion of  the  devil;  but  setting  aside  ornament,  let  us  look  a 
little  to  matters  of  fact. 

For  what  reason  Lord  Mansfield  laid  his  paper  upon  the 
table,  he  best  knows.  He  gave  none  to  the  House  of  Lords, 
except  that  he  thought  calling  them  together  was  the  most 
compendious  way  of  informing  them  where  each  lord  might, 
if  he  pleased,  procure  a  copy  of  his  charge  to  the  jury  in 
Woodfall's  cause.  This  was  the  whole,  for  he  made  no 
motion  whatsoever,  nor  did  he  pretend  to  say  that,  in  their 
corporate  capacity  as  a  House  of  Peers,  they  could  take  the 
least  notice  of  the  paper.  Now,  Sir,  it  remains  with  Lord 
Mansfield  to  give  us  an  example,  if  he  can,  of  any  respectable 
peer  having  ever  moved  for  a  call  of  the  house  for  so  trifling, 
so  nugatory,  so  ridiculous  a  purpose.  I  think  it  strongly  de- 
serves these  epithets,  and  after  much  consideration  I  can 
find  but  one  possible  way  of  reconciling  the  fact  with  the 
cunning  understanding  of  the  man.  When  he  summoned 
the  house  he  never  meant  to  do  what  he  afterwards  did; 
some  qualm,  some  terror  intervened,  and  forced  him  hastily 

at  an  end!  But  all  men  are  not  born  to  be  heroes,  nor  all  men  candid,  just, 
or  wise.  You,  my  lord,  have  imposed  long  enough  on  the  world;  your 
faculties  have  been  greatly  misjudged;  your  organs  have  been  mistaken 
for  talents,  your  facility  and  versatility  for  parts,  your  boldness  (I  could 
give  it  a  harsher  name)  for  knowledge,  and  your  precipitation  for  dis- 
patch. You  are  a  memorable  exception  to  the  general  rule  of  humanity, 
for  years  and  exercise  have  not  endowed  you  witli  experience  or  wisdom, 
and  you  possess,  together  with  the  cold  heart  of  age,  the  hot  brain  of  rash 
and  intemperate  youth  Already  hath  your  furious  prodigality  brought  this 
nation  to  the  brink  of  ruin.  Do  not  persist  in  your  impious  intention  to  ac- 
complish what  you  have  already  well  nigh  performed.  Retire  from  the 
stage,  and  try  in  retirement  to  repent  of  the  evils  you  have  brought  on 
your  country.  If  your  proud  heart  cannot  brook  the  idea  of  sincere  re- 
pentance, let  the  repeated  defeats  which  you  have  lately  suffered  in  the 
prosecution  of  your  outrageous  designs,  teach  you  to  assume  a  virtue 
though  you  have  it  not. — By  that  appearance  of  contrition,  and  by  that 
only,  you  may  soften  the  odium  which  must  attend  you  to  the  grave,  and 
alleviate  the  load  of  indignation  which  posterity  will  lay  on  your  me- 
mory. 
Edit.,  Nbrva. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  377 

co  alter  his  design,  and  to  substitute  a  silly,  absurd  measure 
in  the  place  of  a  dangerous  one.  As  for  his  having  dared 
Lord  Chatham  to  a  trial  of  his  doctrines,  I  should  be  glad  to 
know  by  whom  the  combat  was  refused.  Lord  Chatham  at- 
tacked him  directly  upon  the  spot,  and  on  the  very  next  day 
it  is  known  to  the  whole  world,  that  the  great  Lord  Cam- 
den addressed  him  in  the  following  words:  "  I  consider  the 
paper  delivered  in  by  the  noble  lord  upon  the  woolsack  as  a 
challenge  directed  personally  to  me,  and  I  accept  of  it;— he 
has  thrown  down  the  glove,  and  I  take  it  up.  In  direct  con- 
tradiction to  him,  I  maintain  that  his  doctrine  is  not  the  law 
of  England.  I  am  ready  to  enter  into  the  debate  whenever 
the  noble  lord  will  fix  a  day  for  it.  I  desire,  and  insist,  that 
it  may  be  an  early  one." — The  devil's  in  it  if  this  be  de- 
clining the  trial:  but  what  was  the  consequence?  Lord  Mans- 
field, after  an  hour's  shuffling  and  evasion,  finding  himself 
pushed  to  the  last  extremity,  cried  out  in  an  agony  of  tor- 
ture and  despair,  No,  I  will  not  Jix  a  day — I  will  not  pledge 
myself.  • 

As  to  Lord  Chatham's  declaration  concerning  the  irregu- 
lar production  of  Lord  Mansfield's  opinion  in  the  court  of 
King's  Bench,  I  am  sorry  to  say  that  your  correspondent 
Ncrva  neithrr  knows  the  fact,  nor  understands  the  argu- 
ment. He  talks  of  a  judgment  in  a  cause  where  no  judg- 
ment was  ever  given.  Leaving  therefore  this  poor  man  to 
his  own  unhappy  reveries,  let  me  state  briefly  to  the  public 
what  was  the  fact,  and  what  was  the  irregularity  of  the  pro- 
ceeding upon  it. 

The  verdict  given  at  Nisi  Prius  in  the  king  and  Woodfall 
was,  guilty  of  printing  and  publishing  only*.  A  motion  in 
arrest  of  judgment  was  made  by  the  defendant's  counsel, 
grounded  upon  the  ambiguitv  of  the  verdict.  At  the  same 
time  a  motion  was  made  by  the  counsel  for  the  crown,  for  a 
rule  upon  the   defendant  to  shew  cause   why  the  verdict 

*  The  whole  of  this  paragraph  is  taken  from  a  speech  of  Lord  Chat- 
ham, as  quoted  by  Ji  nils  in  his  preface,  Vol.  I.  p  19.  See  also  in  relation 
to  the  same,  Lord   Mansfield's  charge  to  the  jury,  on  the  trial  here  al- 
luded to,  in  the  editor's  note,  ibid.  p.  11.   Edit 
Vol.  II.  a  B 


378  MISCELLANEOUS 

should  not  be  entered  up  according  to  the  legal  import  of  the 
words.  On  both  motions  a  rule  to  shew  cause  was  granted, 
and  soon  after  the  matter  was  argued  before  the  court  of 
King's  Bench.  Lord  Mansfield,  when  he  delivered  the  opi- 
nion of  the  court  upon  the  verdict,  went  regularly  through 
the  whole  of  the  proceedings  at  Nisi  Prius,  as  well  the  evi- 
dence that  had  been  given,  as  his  own  charge  to  the  jury. 
This  proceeding  would  have  been  very  proper  had  a  motion 
been  made  of  either  side  for  a  new  trial,  because  either  a 
verdict  given  contrary  to  evidence,  or  an  improper  charge 
by  the  judge  at  Nisi  Prius,  is  held  to  be  a  sufficient  ground 
for  granting  a  new  trial;  but  when  a  motion  is  made  in  ar- 
rest of  judgment,  or  for  establishing  the  verdict,  by  entering 
it  up  according  to  the  legal  import  of  the  words,  it  must  be 
on  the  ground  of  something  appearing  on  the  record;  and  the 
court,  in  considering  whether  the  verdict  shall  be  established 
or  not,  are  so  confined  to  the  record,  that  they  cannot  take 
notice  of  any  thing  that  does  not  appear  on  the  face  of  it;  to 
make  use  of  the  legal  phrase,  they  ^cannot  travel  out  of  the 
record.  Lord  Mansfield  did  travel  out  of  the  record.  I  affirm 
therefore  with  Lord  Chatham,  that  his  conduct  was  irregu- 
lar, extrajudicial,  and  unprecedented;  and  I  am  sure  there  is 
not  a  lawyer  in  England  that  will  contradict  me.  His  real 
motive  for  doing  what  he  knew  to  be  wrong,  was,  that  he 
might  have  an  opportunity  of  telling  the  public  extrajudi- 
cially, that  the  other  three  judges  agreed  with  him  in  the 
doctrine  laid  down  in  his  charge. 

When  you  have  read  this  p-aper,  I  am  sure  you  will  join 
with  me  in  opinion,  that  to  support  an  uniform  system  of 
falsehood  requires  greater  parts  than  even  those  of  Lord 
Mansfield. 

PHALARIS. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.         379 


LETTER  LXXXIII.- 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 
Sin,  24  December,  1770. 

Without  attempting  to  account  for  all  political  changes, 
which  have  happened  since  his  Majesty's  auspicious  acces- 
sion to  the  throne,  it  requires  but  little  sagacity  to  observe 
that  the  general  principle,  from  which  they  have  arisen,  is 
uniform  and  consistent  with  itself.  A  prince  of  the  House  of 
Brunswick  searches  for  the  consolation  and  endearments  of 
private  sociality  and  friendship  in  the  loyal  hearts  of  Jaco- 
bites, tories,  and  Scotchmen: — a  devout  prince,  whose  sin- 
cere, unaffected  piety  would  have  done  honour  even  to 
Charles  the  First,  intrusts  the  public  government  of  his  af- 
fairs to  Grafton,  North,  Halifax  and  Sandwich.  The  first 
choice  naturally  led  to  the  second.  The  private  convivial 
hours  of  Jonathan  Wild  were  happily  unbent  in  the  com- 
pany of  the  lower  adepts  in  pilfering  and  petty  larceny.  In 
public,  he  resumed  his-state,  and  never  appeared  without  an 
attendant  knot  of  highwaymen  and  assassins. 

I  congratulate  this  country  upon  the  return  of  the  Earl  of 
Sandwich  to  a  station,  in  which  he  has  heretofore  given 
complete  satisfaction  to  his  royal  master*.  It  is  the  more 
pleasing,  because  it  was  unexpected.  A  gracious  and  a  truly 
religious  prince  had  often  declared  that  this  was  the  only 
man  in  his  dominions,  whom  he  never  would  suffer  to  enter 
the  cabinet.  He  was  tender  of  the  morals  of  his  ministers, 
and  the  Bedfords  had  delicacy  enough  to  acquiesce  in  the 
truth  of  the  objection.  I  feel  for  his  Majesty's  distress.  To 
what  a  melancholy  condition  must  he  be  reduced,  when  he 
is  forced  to  apply  to  the  Earl  of  Sandwich  as  the  last  re- 
source, the  onl)  prop  remaining  to  stop  the  fall  of  govern- 
ment:1 Lord  Weymouth,  it  seems,  retires  perfectly  satis- 

*  The  office  of  foreign  minister,  vacant  by  the  removal  of  the  Earl  of 
Rocht '••  d  to  the  home  de,  and  which,  before  its  occupation  by 

the  lat  er,  had  been  held  f  jr  two  or  three  years  by  Lord  Viscount  Wey- 
mouth. Epit. 


380  MISCELLANEOUS 

fied,  and  determined  to  support  men  and  measures  as  vigor- 
ously, as  if  he  had  continued  in  employment.  Good  hu- 
moured creature!  What  a  pity  it  is,  that  he  cannot  submit  to 
the  drudgery  of  receiving  seven  thousand  pounds  a  year! 
The  king  presses  him  to  accept  of  some  other  post,  where 
there  is  neither  labour  nor  responsibility; — any  thing,  in 
short,  provided  he  will  not  fling  the  public  mortification 
upon  his  royal  master,  of  quitting  his  service,  at  so  critical  a 
conjuncture. — Still  he  resists; — still  he  refuses;  but  though 
he  quits  all  connexion  with  ministers  and  their  practices,  it 
is  impossible  to  interrupt  his  complacency  and  good  hu- 
mour.^By  this  nobleman's  retreat,  the  nation  has  made 
some  capital  acquisitions.  To  say  nothing  of  my  Lord  Sand- 
wich, what  do  you  think  of  the  amiable  Mr.  Bamber  Gas- 
coyne,  and  that  well  educated,  genteel  young  broker,  Mr. 
Chamier*?  The  first  is  to  thunder  in  the  senate: — the 
second,  in  quality  of  secretary,  is  to  direct  the  most  secret 
and  important  manoeuvres  of  government.— Well  done,  my 
Lord  Sandwich! — Your  company,  I'll  be  sworn,  will  be  no 
reproach  to  you.  But  was  there  no  employment  to  be  found 
for  Tommy  Bradshaw's  sisterf,  as  well  as  his  brother-in- 
law?  She  too  understands  the  disposal  of  places; — at  least 
his  fraternal  affection  has  given  her  the  credit  of  it. — 

Give  me  leave,  Mr.  Woodfall,  to  ask  you  a  serious  ques- 
tion. How  long  do  you  think  it  possible  for  this  management 
to  last?  How  long  is  this  great  country  to  be  governed  by 
a  boot  and  a  petticoat? — by  the  infamous  tools  of  a  Scotch 
exile,  and  her  royal  highness  the  Princess  Dowager  of  Wales? 
— by  North,  Ellis,  Barrington,  Jenkinson,  Hillsborough, 
Jerry  Dyson,  and  Sandwich?  I  will  answer  you  with  pre- 
cision. It  will  last,  until  there  is  a  general  insurrection  of  the 
English  nation,  or  until  the  House  of  Bourbon  have  col- 
lected their  strength  and  strike  you  to  the  heart. 

DOMITIAN. 

•  Chamier  was  afterwards  appointed  chief  secretary  to  Lord  Barring, 
ton,  through  the  interest  of  Mr.  Bradshaw  and  his  master  the  Duke  of 
Grafton,  at  that  time  again  in  administration,  as  lord  privy  seal.  See  Pri- 
vate Letters,  No.  56.  Edi    . 

f  See  Miscellaneous  Letters,  Nos.  lxxi.  and  lxxiv.  Ecjt. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  381 

P.  S.  Tell  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  that,  if  he  should  dare  to 
entertain  the  most  distant  thought  of  the  admiralty,  the 
whole  affair  of  Mine's  patent  shall  be  revived  and  pub- 
lished, with  an  accumulation  of  evidence.  He  at  least  shall 
be  kept  under.  His  Ciceronian  eloquence  shall  not  save 
him. 


LETTER  LXXXIV. 

FOR    THE    PUBLIC    ADVERTISER. 

2u  December,  1770. 
A  CARD. 

Phalaris  presents  his  compliments  to  Sir  — — ,  is 

preparing  for  the  press  a  faithful  account  of  Mr.  Justice's 
amours  with  the  Lady  Williams;  and  as  he  wishes  not  to 
give  a  plain  narrative  too  much  the  air  of  a  romance,  would 
be  very  glad  to  be  furnished  with  any  material  facts,  which 
Mr.  Justice  may  think  proper  to  have  inserted:  but  in  order 
not  to  give  Mr.  Justice  any  unnecessary  trouble,  Phalaris 
thinks  it  proper  to  apprise  him  of  those  circumstances,  in 
which  he  {Phalaris)^  is  already  particularly  instructed,  viz. 
How  Mr.  Justice  was  distressed  for  want  of  practice;  how 
he  was  impatient  at  trying  a  long  cause  in  a  hot  day  at 
Hereford;  how  he  made  a  declaration  at  a  public  dinner, 
confirmed  by  execrations,  that  he  would  marry  the  devil 
with  money,  rather  than  practise  the  law  without  it;  how  he 
was  introduced  to  Lady  Williams;  how,  upon  sufficient  deli- 
beration, he  preferred  her  ladyship  to  the  devil;  how  he 
explained  his  tender  passion;  how,  with  a  gallant  impa- 
tience, he  hastened  the  marriage  ceremony  before  he  saw  the 
writings  of  her  estate;  how  he  stepped  into  a  hackney  coach, 
one  fine  morning,  in  a  suit  of  white  cloth  lined  with  green 
velvet;  how  he  had  a  levee  of  visitors  at  his  gate  the  day  after 
his  auspicious  nuptials;  how  Lady  Williams  complained  next 
morning;  how  she  retired  to  her  country  seat  near  Hereford; 
how  Mr.  Justice  pursued  her  in  company  with  a  certain 
strong  lady  with  a  strait  waistcoat;  how  both  parties,  with 
great  cordiality,  signed  articles  of  separation;  and  how  Mr. 
Justice  retired  to  Ireland,  without  taking  leave  of  his  friends. 


382  MISCELLANEOUS 

Phalaris  hopes  Mr.  Justice  will  have  no  objection  to  the 
following  motto: 

Felices  ter,  et  amfilius, 
Quos  irrupt  a  tenet  Copula. 


LETTER   LXXXV. 

For  the  Public  Advertiser, 
INTELLIGENCE  EXTRAORDINARY. 

9  January,  \71\. 
Sir  Edward  Hawke  resigned  this  morning.  The  Earl  of 
Sandwich  is  to  succeed  to  the  admiralty. — His  Majesty,  who 
fudges  of  men  by  their  moral. characters,  has  discovered  at 
last  that  this  nobleman  is  as  well  qualified  for  one  post  as 
another.  His  religion  would  do  honour  to  a  mitre.  If  he  were 
Archbishop  of  Canterbury,  the  Princess  Dowager  of  Wales 
could  not  do  better  than  make  him  hi  r  father  confessor.  In 
the  primitive  spirit  of  Christianity,  they  Might  confess  to  one 
another.  Who  is  to  be  secretary  of  state  is  not  yet  known; 
for  we  all  agree  that  Lord  Suffo'k*  has,  too  much  sensr  and 
spirit  to  prostitute  his  virgin  character  in  such  a  *******  as 
St.  James's. — When  a  beautiful  woman  yields  to  temptation, 
let  her  consult  her  pride,  though  she  forgets  her  virtue. — To 
be  corrupted  by  such  a  maquereau  as  Whately  would  turn 
the  appetite  of  Moll  Flanders.  This  poor  man,  with  the 
talents  of  an  attorney,  sets  up  for  n  am  assador,  and  with 
the  agility  of  Colonel  Bodens  undertakes  to  be  a  courier. 
Indeed,  Tom!  you  have  betrayed  yourself  too  soon. — Mr. 
Grenville,  your  friend,  your  patron,  your  benefactor,  who 
raised  you  from  a  depth,  (compared  to  which  even  Brad- 
shaw's  family  stands  on  an  eminence),  was  hardly  cold  in  his 
grave,  when  you  solicited  the  office  of  go-betweeri  to  Lord 
North.  You  could  not,  in  my  eyes,  be  more  contemptible, 
though  you  were  convicted  (as  I  dare  say  you  might  be),  of 
having  constantly  betrayed  him  in  his  lifetime. — Since  I 
know  your  employment,  be  assured  I  shall  watch  you  atten- 

*  See  Miscellaneous  Letters,  No.  xcvi.and  xcvii. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS-  383 

tively.  Every  journey  you  undertake,  every  message  you 
carry,  shall  be  immediately  laid  before  the  public.  The  event 
of  your  ingenious  management  will  be  this, — that  Lord 
North  finding  you  cannot  serve  him,  will  give  you  nothing. 
From  the  other  party,  you  have  just  as  much  detestation  to 
expect  as  can  be  united  with  the  profoundest  contempt. 
Tom  Whately,  take  care  of  yourself*! 


LETTER  LXXXVI. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF    THE  PUBLIC    ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  11  January,  1771. 

Your  correspondent  W.  is  equally  unfortunate  in  his  attack 
upon  Junius  and  his  defence  of  Lord  Mansfield.  Junius 
does  not  enter  into  the  particular  merits  of  the  Grosvenor 
cause,  but  strikes  at  the  general  doctrine  delivered  by  the 
judu;e  in  his  charge  to  the  jury; — viz.  that,  in  a  prosecution 
for  criminal  conversation,  the  jury,  when  they  assess 
damages,  are  not  to   regard  the  quality  and  fortune  r.f  the 
parties,  but  are  to  consider  the  question  abstractedly  as  a  ques- 
tion between  A.  and  B.   If  this  doctrine  be  true  in  on-,  in- 
stance, it  will  be  applicable  to  every  case  of  criminal  conver- 
sation; and  the  consequences  of  it  will  be,  that  a  nobleman 
.with  ten  thousand  a  year  shall  pay  no  greater  damages  than 
a  peasant,  who  labours  for.  a  shilling  a  day;  or,  vice  versa, 
that  the  seduction  of  a  duchess  and  of  a  milliner  stand  upon 
the  same  footing,  in  regard  to  the  compensation  due  to  the 
injured  husband. — In  a  moral  view,  I  confess,  the  crime  is 
the  same.  The  punishment  annexed  to  it,  though  not  matter 
01  ;      hive  law,  cannot  be  regulated  by  the  rules  of  morality. 
It  must  depend  on  custom,  reputation,  and  the  circumstances 
of  the  case.  The  equity  of  the  verdict  must  be  measured  by 
rtht  distinctions  of  rank  and  fortune,  admitted  and  establish- 
ed in  society,  since  it  is  evident  that  the  penalty  or  satisfac- 
tion sufficient  for  one  man,  might  hardly  be  felt  by  another. 
'  It  is  the  general  doctrine  of  Lord  Mansfield,  which  Junius 

•Mr.  Whately  had  been  private  secretary  to  Mr.  G.  GrenviHe.  Edit. 


384  MISCELLANEOUS 

very  truly  calls  false  and  absurd;  and  I  know  that  it  was 
received  in  Westminster-hall  with  universal  shame  and 
astonishment. 

As  to  the  idea  of  Lord  Mansfield's  inclining  to  favour 
Lord  Grosvenor,  it  is  so  preposterously  false  and  ridiculous, 
that  it  would  be  entirely  undeserving  of  notice,  but  for  one 
consideration;  viz. — that,  if  it  were  true,  it  stabs  the  chief 
justice  to  the  heart. — Lord  Mansfield  is  charged  with  gross 
and  infamous  partiality  to  the  defendant; — the  defence  made 
for  him  is,  that  he  was  grossly  and  infamously  partial  to  the 
plaintiff. — Let  his  friends  take  their  choice.  Every  honest 
man  will  equally  despise  and  detest  such  a  judge,  which  ever 
way  his  bad  passions  incline  him. 

As  to  the  merits  of  the  Grosvenor  cause,  they  are  of  no 
consequence  in  the  present  question.  If  it  be  necessary, 
however,  I  am  ready  to  maintain  that  the  verdict  was  sup- 
ported by  the  evidence,  and  the  damages  very  moderate.  If 
not,  why  did  not  Mansfield  order  a  new  trial?  When  time, 
and  place,  and  circumstance  are  proved,  there  remains  but 
one  possible  plea  for  the  Duke  of  Cumberland;  and  that,  by 
the  by,  is  rather  a  whimsical  one,  applied  to  a  boy  of  one  and 
twenty.  Yet,  for  aught  I  know,  it  may  be  very  true,  that 
with  all  his  attention  to  the  dear  little  hair,  he  was  incapable 
of  taking  the  fairest  opportunity  by  the  forelock. 

ANTI-W. 


LETTER  LXXXVII. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC  ADVERTISER. 

Sir,  17  Jan.  1771. 

If  Sir  Edward  Hawke  had  followed  the  advice  and  ex- 
ample of  his  friends  he  would  not  have  been  reduced  to  the 
dishonourable  necessity  of  quitting  the  direction  of  the 
English  navy,  at  the  very  moment  it  is  going  to  be  employed 
against  the  foreign  enemies  of  England.  To  be  left  in  em- 
ployment after  Chatham,  Granby,  and  Camden  had  retired; 
—to  continue  in  it  in  company  with  Grafton,  North,  Gower, 
and  Hillsborough; — and  at  last  to  be  succeeded  by  Lord 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  385 

Sandwich,  are  circumstances  too  disgraceful  to  admit  of  ag- 
gravation. It  is  natural  to  sympathise  in  the  distresses  of  a 
brave  man,  and  to  lament  that  a  noble  estate  of  reputation 
should  be  squandered  away  in  debts  of  dishonour  contracted 
with  sharpers. 

His  Majesty,  God  bless  him!  has  now  got  rid  of  every 
man  whose  former  services  or  present  scruples  could  be  sup- 
posed to  give  offence  to  her  royal  highness  the  Princess 
dowager  of  Wales.  The  security  of  our  civil  and  religious 
liberties  cannot  be  more  happily  provided  for  than  while 
Lord  Mansfield  pronounces  the  law,  and  Lord  Sandwich  re- 
presents the  religion  of  St.  James's.  Such  law  and  such  reli- 
gion are  too  closely  united  to  suffer  even  a  momentary  in- 
tervention of  common  honesty  between  them.  Her  royal 
highness's  scheme  of  government,  formed  long  before  her 
husband's  death,  is  now  accomplished.  She  has  succeeded 
in  disuniting  every  party,  and  dissolving  every  connexion; 
and,  by  the  mere  influence  of  the  crown,  has  formed  an  ad- 
ministration, such  as  it  is,  out  of  the  refuse  of  them  all. 
There  are  two  leading  principles  in  the  politics  of  St. 
James's,  which  will  account  for  almost  every  measure  of  go- 
vernment since  the  king's  accession.  The  first  is,  that  the 
prerogative  is  sufficient  to  make  a  lackey  a  prime  minister, 
and  to  maintain  him  in  that  post,  without  any  regard  to  the 
welfare  or  to  the  opinion  of  the  people — The  second  is,  that 
none  but  persons,  insignificant  in  themselves,  or  of  tainted 
reputation,  should  be  brought  into  employment.  Men  of 
greater  consequence  and  abilities  will  have  opinions  of  their 
own,  and  will  not  submit  to  the  meddling,  unnatural  ambi- 
tion of  a  mother,  v/ho  grasps  at  unlimited  power,  at  the 
hazard  of  her  son's  destruction.  They  will  not  suffer  mea- 
sures of  public  utility,  which  have  been  resolved  upon  in 
council,  to  be  checked  and  controlled  by  a  secret  influence 
in  the  closet.  Such  men  consequently  will  never  be  called 
upon  but  in  cases  of  extreme  necessity.  When  that  ceases, 
they  find  their  places  no  longer  tenable.  To  answer  the  pur- 
poses of  an  ambitious  woman,  an  administration  must  be 
formed  of  more  pliant  materials, — of  men,  who,  having  no 

Vol.  II.  5  C 


386  MISCELLANEOUS 

connexion  with  each  other,  no  personal  interest,  no  weight 
or  consideration  with  the  people,  may  separately  depend 
upon  the  smiles  of  the  crown  alone  for  their  advancement  to 
high  offices,  and  for  their  continuance  there.  If  such  men 
resist  the  princess  dowager's  pleasure,  his  majesty  knows 
that  he  may  dismiss  them  without  risking  any  thing  from 
their  resentment.  His  wisdom  suggests  to  him  that,  if  he 
were  to  choose  his  ministers  for  any  of  those  qualities  which 
might  entitle  them  to  public  esteem,  the  nation  might  take 
part  with  them,  and  resent  their  dismission.  As  it  is,  when- 
ever he  changes  his  servants  he  is  sure  to  have  the  people, 
in  that  instance,  of  his  side. 

I  love  and  respect  our  gracious  sovereign  too  much  to  sup- 
pose it  possible  that  he  should  be  any  thing  more  than  passive 
in  forming  and  supporting  such  a  system  of  government;  and 
even  this  acquiescence  of  the  best  of  princes  I  am  ready  to 
attribute  to  a  most  amiable  quality  implanted  in  him  by  na- 
ture and  carefully  cultivated  by  art, — unlimited  duty  and 
obedience  to  his  dear  mother. — Few  nations  are  in  the  pre- 
dicament that  we  are,  to  have  nothing  to  complain  of  but  the 
filial  virtues  of  our  sovereign. — Charles  the  First  had  the 
same  implicit  attachment  to  his  spouse; — but  his  worthy  pa- 
rent was  in  her  grave.  It  were  to  be  wished  that  the  parallel 
held  good  in  all  the  circumstances. 

In  respect  to  her  royal  highness,  I  shall  deliver  my  senti- 
ments without  any  false  tenderness  or  reserve.  I  consider 
her  not  only  as  the  original  creating  cause  of  the  shameful 
and  deplorable  condition  of  this  country,  but  as  a  being, 
whose  operation  is  uniform  and  permanent; — who  watches, 
with  a  kind  of  providential  malignity,  over  the  work  of  her 
hands  to  correct,  improve,  and  preserve  it.  If  the  strongest 
appearances  may  be  relied  on,  this  lady  has  now  brought  her 
schemes  to  perfection.  Every  office  in  government  is  filled 
with  men  who  are  known  to  be  her  creatures,  or  by  mere 
cyphers  incapable  of  resistance.  Is  it  conceivable  that  any 
thing,  less  than  a  determined  plan  of  drawing  the  whole 
power  of  the  crown  into  her  own  hands,  could  have  collected 
such  an  administration  as  the  present? — Who  is  Lord  North 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  337 

— The  son  of  a  poor  unknown  earl; — who  four  years  ago 
was  a  needy  commissioner  of  the  treasury  for  the  benefit  of 
a  subsistence,  and  who  would  have  accepted  a  commission 
of  hackney  coaches  upon  the  same  terms.  The  politics  of 
Carlton-house — Finances  picked  up  in  Mr.  Grenville's  anti- 
chamber,  and  the  elocution  of  a  Demosthenes  endeavouring 
to  speak  plain  with  pebbles  in  his  mouth,  form  the  stuffing  of 
that  figure,  that  calls  itself  minister,  that  does  homage  to  the 
princess  dowager,  and  says,  Madam,  I  am  your  man. 

The  stage  was  deprived  of  a  promising  actor  when  poor 
Lord  Hillsborough  gave  his  mind  to  politics.  Yet  his  thea- 
trical talents  have  been  of  use  to  his  fortune.  The  princess 
dowager  saw  what  part  this  man  was  capable  of  acting;  and 
with  regard  to  himself  it  signified  but  little  whether  he  re- 
presented Prince  Volscius  at  Drury-lane,  or  secretary  of  state 
at  St.  James's. 

It  is  not  pretended  that  Lord  Rochford's  abilities  are  of 
the  explicit  kind.  Yet  from  a  char gea'' affaires  at  Turin,  the 
all-powerful  guiding  hand  has  raised  him  to  be  secretary  of 
state.  The  princess  dowager  know  j,  better  than  we  do,  what 
positive  good  qualities  this  nobleman  possesses.  The  public 
only  knows  that  he  is  a  mute  in  the  House  of  Lords,  and 
that  he  is  destitute  of  fortune,  interest,  and  connexions.  To 
do  him  justice,  he  has  all  the  negative  qualifications  that 
constitute  merit  at  Carlton-house. 

The  character  of  third  secretary  is  not  yet  disposed  of. 
Public  suspicion  gives  Lord  Hillsborough  a  formidable  rival 
At  the  opening  of  the  theatre  young  Suffolk  is  to  be  produce 
Prince  Prettyman  can  cant  very  near  as  well  as  Prince  VoU 
scius.  Such  a  pair  of  actors  make  tragedy  ridiculous.  Our 
enemies  at  least  will  laugh  at  the  catastrophe.  But  this  young 
man  shall  be  left  for  abler  hands.  It  requires  no  vulgar  pen 
to  do  justice  to  such  a  strain  of  monstrous  prostitution. 

Why  is  that  wretched  creature  Lord  Townshend  main- 
tained in  Ireland?  Is  it  not  universally  known  that  the  igno- 
rance, presumption,  and  incapacity  of  that  man  have  ruined 
the  king's  affairs  in  Ireland? — that  he  has,  in  a  great  mea- 
sure, destroyed  the  political  dependance  of  that  country 


388  MISCELLANEOUS 

upon  Great  Britain? — But  he  too  is  an  unconnected  being, 
without  any  hope  of  support  but  in  the  protection  of  Lord 
Bute  and  the  princess  dowager. 

Why  is  not  a  commander-in-chief  appointed?  Because 
there  is  an  insignificant  secretary  at  war,  who  has  no  chance 
of  continuing  in  the  receipt  of  2500/.  a  year,  but  by  making 
himself  the  instrument  through  which  the  princess  dowager 
disposes  of  every  valuable  commission  in  the  army. 

Why  have  we  not  a  master-general  of  the  ordnance?  Be- 
cause the  gentle  Conway  knows  how  to  be  as  pliant  as  Lord 
Barrington. 

Why  is  there  no  chancellor?  Partly  because  there  is  a 
convenience  in  bribing  four  of  the  judges  with  the  emolu- 
ments of  that  office,  and  partly  because  no  man  of  credit  in 
the  profession  will  submit  to  act  with  the  present  infamous 
administration. 

What  merit  has  Lord  Halifax? — The  issue  of  general 
warrants; — the  opposition  of  his  privilege  for  years  toge- 
ther to  the  laws  of  his  country; — prostitution  in  private  life, 
and  poverty  in  the  extreme. 

Why  is  the  king  so  fond  of  having  Lord  Bristol  about  his 
person?  If  the  duties  of  the  noble  lord's  office  had  a  closer 
connexion  with  the  title  of  it,  as  usually  pronounced,  I  should 
understand  his  Majesty,  and  admire  his  attention  in  paying 
so  delicate  a  compliment  to  his  lordship's  amours.  The  last 
question  I  would  ask  is,  by  what  kind  of  service  or  ability 
the  Earl  of  Sandwich  is  distinguished?  Prostitution  and  po- 
erty  may  be  found  in  other  subjects,  and  appearances  saved 
'  by  a  decent  formality  of  behaviour.  The  choice  and  prefer- 
ence of  the  most  profligate  character  in  the  kingdom  may 
suit  well  enough  with  the  substantial  purposes  of  Carlton- 
house,  but  how  does  it  consist  with  the  hypocritical  decorum 
of  St.  James's?  What  opinion  are  we  to  entertain  of  the 
piety,  chastity,  and  integrity  of  the  best  of  princes,  when,  in 
the  face  of  England  and  of  all  Europe,  he  takes  such  a  man 
as  Samlwich  to  his  bosom! — Let  us  hear  no  more  of  the 
piety  of  St.  James's. — To  talk  of  morals  or  devotion  in  such 
company  is  a  scandalous  insult  to  common  sense,  and  a  still 
more  scandalous  mockery  of  religion. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  389 

The  Princess  Dowager  having  now  carried  her  plan  of 
administration  into  effect,  it  is  not  to  be  wondered  that  she 
should  be  very  unwilling  to  expose  herself  and  her  schemes 
to  the  uncertain  events  of  a  foreign  war.  She  knows  that  a 
disaster  abroad  would  not  only  defeat  the  cunning  plan  of 
female  avarice  and  ambition,  but  that  it  might  reach  far- 
ther.— The  mothers  of  our  kings  have  heretofore  been  im- 
peached; and  if  the  precedents  are  not  so  complete  as  they 
should  be,  they  require  and  will  admit  of  improvement. 

To  maintain  this  lady  in  her  present  state  of  power  and 
security,  there  is  no  insult,  no  indignity,  to  which  the  king 
of  Britain  must  not  submit, — no  condition,  however  humiliat- 
ing, which  the  king  and  the  nation  must  not  accept  of  with- 
out resentment.— -At  this  point  however  her  cunning  for- 
sakes her.  Both  she  and  her  ministers  deceive  themselves 
grossly  if  they  imagine  that  any  concessions  can  secure  peace 
with  an  enemy  determined  upon  war. — She  may  disgrace 
the  English  nation.  She  may  dishonour  her  son,  and  per- 
suade him  to  forfeit  his  right  to  precedence  among  the 
sovereigns  of  Europe.  The  man  who  receives  a  blow,  and 
does  not  return  it  (whether  he  be  a  king  or  a  private  person) 
from  that  moment  stands  degraded  from  his  natural  rank 
and  condition.  If  he  be  a  young  man,  his  infamy  is  immor- 
tal.— Yet  I  am  ready  to  confess  that  where  two  nations  upon 
the  whole  are  peaceably  disposed,  there  is  a  degree  of  slight, 
and  ill  humour,  and  even  of  injury,  which,  for  the  sake  of 
peace,  may  and  ought  to  be  dissembled:  but  a  direct,  posi- 
tive, intended  insult  must  always  be  resented.  To  flatter 
ourselves  that  the  moderation  of  the  Spaniards  will  be  pro- 
portioned to  our  forbearance,  or  that,  because  we  have  sub- 
mitted tamely  to  one  affront,  they  will  therefore  avoid  offer- 
ing us  a  second,  would  be  arguing  in  contradiction  to  all 
reason  and  experience.  If  Falkland  Island  had  never  exist- 
ed, the  rancour  of  the  Spaniards  would  not  have  failed  to 
discover  itself  in  some  other  mode  of  hostility.  Their  whole 
history,  since  the  accession  of  Philip  the  Vth,  is  a  continued 
proof  of  a  rooted  antipathy  to  the  name  of  Englishman;  and 
I  am  justified,  by  a  series  of  indisputable  facts,  in  affirming 


390  MISCELLANEOUS 

that  from  the  treaty  of  Utrecht  to  this  hour,  there  has  never 
been  a  single  instance  of  common  justice  or  decency,  much 
less  of  cordiality  or  friendship  in  the  conduct  of  the  court  of 
Madrid  towards  this  country.  Lord  Sandwich  declared  a 
month  ago,  in  full  parliament,  that  Gibraltar  was  a  place  r ' 
no  consequence,  and  immediately  afterwards  the  Princess 
Dowager  makes  him  secretary  of  state.  Whoever  compares 
the  sale  of  Dunkirk  with  this  nobleman's  character,  must  be 
very  much  of  a  sceptic,  if  he  entertains  any  doubt  about  the 
fate  of  Gibraltar.  But  neither  this  sacrifice,  nor  even  that  of 
Jamaica,  would  be  sufficient  to  produce  a  solid,  permanent 
union  with  Spain.  They  may  despise  us  more,  but  they  will 
never  hate  us  less. 

By  the  Princess  Dowager's  management,  instead  of  avoid- 
ing a  war  we  make  it  certain.  A  little  spirit  at  first  might 
perhaps  have  intimidated  the  Spaniards.  Our  notorious 
weakness  and  shameful  submission  have  only  served  to  en- 
courage and  confirm  them  in  their  resolution.  In  point  of 
honour,  we  have  let  the  proper  moment  of  resentment  pass 
away.  The  royal  and  national  honour  is  so  irretrievably 
stained,  that  it  cannot  now  be  recovered  by  the  most  vigor- 
ous measures  of  revenge.— From  her  royal  highness's 
government  in  time  of  peace,  we  may  well  conclude  in 
what  manner  she  will  conduct  a  war.  Gifted  as  she  is,  she 
eould  hardly  fail  of  success,  if  the  quarrels  of  nations  bore 
any  resemblance  to  domestic  feuds,  or  could  be  conducted 
upon  the  same  principles.  The  genius  of  Queen  Elizabeth 
united  the  nation,  collected  the  strength  of  the  people,  and 
carried  it  forward  to  resistance  and  victory.  When  the 
daemon  of  discord  sits  at  the  helm,  what  have  we  to  expect 
but  distraction  and  civil  war  at  home,  disgrace  and  infamy 
abroad! 

DOMITIAN, 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  ^g\ 


LETTER  LXXXVIII. 

TO  THE  TRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 

Sir,  13  Feb.  1771. 

I  read  with  astonishment,  and  no  small  indignation,  a 
letter  which  is  at  last  got  into  your  paper,  I  mean  that  from 
Lord  Weymouth  to  Mr.  Harris*.  The  copy  which  you  have 

*  This  letter  refers  to  the  much  agitated  dispute  concerning1  the  Malou- 
ine,  or  Falkland's  Islands,  which,  without  any  formal  recognition,  had, 
for  many  years  after  their  first  occupation  by  Captain  Byron  in  1765,  been 
quietly  suffered  by  Spain  to  remain  in  the  hands  c  "bis  Britannic  Majesty, 
who  had  erected  a  small  fort  on  the  coast  of  the  chief  of  them  named  Port 
Egmont.  In  June,  1769,  however,  without  any  complaint  or  notice  on  the 
part  of  the  Spanish  government  to  the  court  of  St.  James's,  a  forcible  de- 
barkation was  effected  on  the  coast  of  Port  Egmont  by  a  Spanish  arma- 
ment from  Port  Solidad  in  Buenos  Ayres,  the  whole  mass  of  islands  wras 
claimed  by  the  commander  of  the  expedition  in  the  name  of  his  most  Ca- 
tholic Majesty,  whose  right  was  formally  asserted  to  the  whole  Magel- 
lanic region;  the  small  body  of  English  troops  stationed  at  Port  Egmont 
was  compelled  to  submit,  and  turned  adrift  from  the  island  in  two  English 
frigates,  which  chanced  to  be  in  the  harbour,  to  make  the  best  of  their 
voyage  home,  and  relate  the  history  of  this  extraordinary  adventure. 

The  English  ministry  heard  the*  account  with  indignation;  and  the  let- 
ter from  Lord  Weymouth  to  Mr.  Harris,  the  resident  minister  at  the  court 
of  Madrid,  referred  to  above,  was  the  result.  The  court  of  Madrid  had 
offered  a  convention  or  conditional  restoration,  and  his  lordship's  letter 
purports  to  be  a  reply  to  such  offer;  it  was  dated  17  Oct.  1770,  and  the 
following  is  the  most  important  passage  contained  in  it. 

"  His  Majesty  cannot  accept,  under  a  convention,  that  satisfaction  to 
which,  he  has  so  just  a  title  wii^ut  entering  into  any  engagements  to  pro- 
cure it.  The  idea  of  his  Majesty's  becoming  a  contracting  party  upon  this 
occasion  is  intirely  foreign  to  the  case;  for,  having  received  an  injury  and 
demanded  the  most  moderate  reparation  of  that  injury  his  honour  will 
permit  him  to  accept,  that  reparation  loses  its  value,  if  it  is  to  be  condi- 
tional, and  to  be  obtained  by  any  stipulation  whatsoever  on  the  part  of  his 
Majesty." 

Yet  in  direct  violation  of  this  demand  of  an  unconditional  restoration 
and  acknowledged  sovereignty,  the  following  declaration  and  acceptance 
were  mutually  acceded  to  at  the  Spanish  court  on  Jan.  22, 1771. 

Translation  of  the  Declaration  signed  and  delivered  by  Prince  de  Ma- 
serano,  Ambassador  Extraordinary  from  his  Catholic  Majest}-,  dated 
the  22dday  of  January,  1771. 

His  Britannic  Majesty  having  complained  of  the  violence  which  was 

committed 


392  MISCELLANEOUS 

procured  I  know  to  be  authentic,  having  read  it  amongst  the 
papers  laid  by  administration  before  both  houses.  It  is  the 
most  complete  and  unanswerable  condemnation  of  the  infa- 

committed  on  the  10th  of  June,  1770,  at  the  island  commonly  called  the 
Great  Malouine,  and  by  the  English  Falkland's  Island,  in  obliging  by  force 
the  commander  and  subjects  of  his  Britannic  Majesty  to  evacuate  the 
port  by  them  called  Egmont;  a  step  offensive  to  the  honour  of  his  crown;— 
the  Prince  de  Maserano,  ambassador  extraordinary  of  his  Catholic  Ma- 
jesty, has  received  orders  to  declare,  and  declares,  that  his  Catholic  Ma- 
jesty, considering  the  desire  with  which  he  is  animated  for  peace,  and  for 
the  maintenance  of  good  harmony  with  his  Britannic  Majesty,  and  reflect- 
ing that  this  event  might  interrupt  it,  has  seen  with  displeasure  this  expe- 
dition tending  to  disturb  it;  and  in  the  persuasion  in  which  he  is  of  the 
reciprocity  of  sentiments  of  his  Britannic  Majesty,  and  of  its  being  far 
from  his  intention  to  authorize  any  thing  that  might  disturb  the  good  un- 
derstanding between  the  two  courts;  his  Catholic  Majesty  does  disavow 
the  said  violent  enterprize;— and  in  consequence  the  Prince  de  Maserano 
declares,  that  his  Catholic  Majesty  engages  to  give  immediate  orders  that 
things  shall  be  restored  in  the  Great  Malouine,  at  the  port  called  Egmont, 
precisely  to  the  state  in  which  they  were  before  the  10th  of  June,  1770; 
for  which  purpose  his  Catholic  Majesty  will  give  orders  to  one  of  his  offi- 
cers to  deliver  up  to  the  officer  authorized  by  his  Britannic  Majesty,  the 
port  and  fort  called  Egmont,  with  all  the  artillery,  stores,  and  effects  of 
his  Britannic  Majesty  and  his  subjects,  which  were  at  that  place  the  day 
above-named;  agreeable  to  the  inventory  which  has  been  made  of  them. 
The  Prince  de  Maserano  declares,  at  the  same  time,  in  the  name  of  the 
king  his  master,  that  the  engagement  of  his  said  Catholic  Majesty,  to  re- 
Store  to  his  Britannic  Majesty  the  possession  of  the  fort  and  port  called 
Egmont,  cannot,  nor  ought,  any  wise  to  affect  the  question  of  the  prior 
right  of  sovereignty  of  the  Malouine  Islands,  otherwise  called  Falkland's 
Islands.  In  witness  whereof,  I,  the  underwritten  ambassador  extraordi- 
nary, have  signed  the  present  declaration  with  my  usual  signature,  and 
caused  it  to  be  sealed  with  our  arms.  London,  the  twenty-second  day  of 
January,  one  thousand  seven  hundred  and  seventy-one. 

(L.  S.)  (Signed)  Le  Prince  de  Maserano. 

Translation  of  the  Earl  of  Rochford's  Acceptance,  dated  the  22d  Day 
of  January,  1771,  of  the  Prince  de  Maserano's  Declaration  of  the  same 
Date. 
His  Catholic  Majesty  having  authorized  the  Prince  of  Maserano,  his 
ambassador  extraordinary,  to  offer  in  his  Majesty's  name  to  the  king  of 
Great  Britain  a  satisfaction  for  the  injury  done  to  his  Britannic  Majesty 
by  dispossessing  him  of  the  port  and  fort  of  Port  Egmont;  and  the  said 
ambassador  having  this  day  signed  a  declaration,  which  he  has  just  deli- 
vered to  me,  expressing  therein  that  his  Catholic  Majesty  being  desirous 
to  restore  the  good  harmony  and  friendship  which  before  subsisted  be 

tween 

\ 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  393 

mous  convention  with  Spain  that  the  mind  of  man  can  sug- 
gest. The  whole  culprit  ministry,  together  with  the  king, 

tween  the  two  crowns,  does  disavow  the  expedition  against  Port  Egmont, 
in  which  force  has  been  used  against  his  Britannic  Majesty's  possessions, 
commander,  and  subjects;  and  does  also  engage  that  all  things  shall  be 
immediately  restored  to  the  precise  situation  in  which  they  stood  before 
the  10th  of  June,  1770.  And  that  his  Catholic  Majesty  shall  give  orders  in 
consequence  to  one  of  his  officers  to  deliver  up  to  the  officer  authorized 
by  Ids  Britannic  Majesty,  the  port  and  fort  of  Port  Egmont,  as  also  all  his 
Britannic  Majesty's  artillery,  stores,  and  effects,  as  well  as  those  of  his 
subjects,  according  to  the  inventory  which  has  been  made  of  them. —  And 
the  said  ambassador  having  moreover  engaged,  in  his  Catholic  Majesty's 
name,  that  what  is  contained  in  the  said  declaration,  shall  be  carried  into 
effict  by  his  said  Catholic  Majesty;  and  that  duplicates  of  his  Catholic 
Majesty's  orders  to  his  officers  shall  be  delivered  into  the  hands  of  one  of 
his  Britannic  Majesty's  principal  secretaries  of  state  within  six  weeks. 
His  said  Britannic  Majesty,  in  order  to  shew  the  same  friendly  disposi- 
tions on  his  part,  has  authorized  me  to  declare,  that  he  will  look  upon  the 
said  declaration  of  Prince  de  Maserano,  together  with  the  full  perform- 
ance of  the  said  engagement,  on  the  part  of  his  Catholic  Majesty,  as  a 
satisfaction  for  the  injury  done  to  the  crown  of  Great  Britain.  In  witness 
whereof,  I,  underwritten,  one  of  his  Britannic  Majesty's  principal  secre- 
taries of  state,  have  signed  these  presents  with  my  usual  signature,  and 
caused  them  to  be  sealed  with  our  arms.  London,  the  22d  day  of  January, 

1771. 

(L.  S.)  (Signed)  Rochford. 

These  papers,  together  with  the  above  letter  of  Lord  Weymouth,  were 
laid  by  Lord  North  before  the  House  of  Commons,  Jan.  25,  1771;  and  on 
Feb  4,  the  two  following  queries  were  moved  by  Lord  Chatham  for  the 
opinion  of  the  judges. 

1. 
Whether,  in  consideration  of  law,  the  imperial  crown  of  this  realm  can 
hold  any  territories  or  possessions  thereunto  belonging,  otherwise  than  in 
sovereigntv.' 

2. 
Whether  the  declaration,  or  instrument  for  restitution  of  the  port  or  fort 
called  Egmont,  to  be  made  by  the  Catholic  King  to  his  Majesty,  under  a 
reservation  of  a  disputed  right  of  sovereignty  expressed  in  the  very  declaration 
or  instrument  stipulating  such  restitution,  can  be  accepted  or  carried  into 
execution  without  derogating  from  the  maxim  of  law  before  referred  to, 
touching  the  inherent  and  essential  dignity  of  the  crown  of  Great  Britain? 

"  The  above  queries  were  not  referred  to  the  judges,  because  Lord 
Mansfield  said,  that  the  answer  to  them  was  self-evident, — that 
they  answered  themselves; — by  which  his  lordship  was  under- 
stood to  mean  that  both  queries  clearly  answered  themselves  in 
the  negative" 

On 

Vol.  II.  3  D 


394  MISCELLANEOUS 

plead  guilty  by  their  own  unanimous  voice.  No  secretary  of 
state  ever  did  or  would  write  a  letter  of  this  sort  upon  so 
delicate  a  matter,  without  first  laying  it  before  his  Majesty's 
most  confidential  servants,  and  taking  the  king's  express  or- 

On  the  13th  of  February  an  address  of  thanks  for  the  communication 
was  voted  in  both  houses  of  parliament;  that  in  the  commons,  after  a  very- 
long  debate,  was  carried  by  a  considerable  majority,  the  numbers  being 
for  the  address  271,  against  157,  who  voted  for  the  amendment. 

The  address  of  the  lords  was  much  fuller  of  approbation  than  that  of  the 
commons,  and  w:.s,  notwithstanding,  carried  through  with  a  much  greater 
proportional  minority;  it  was,  however,  productive  of  the  following  ner- 
vous und  argumentative  protest,  signed  by  not  less  than  nineteen  peers. 

DISSENTIENT. 

1.  Because  it  is  highly  unsuitable  to  the  wisdom  and  gravity  of  this 
house,  and  to  the  respect  which  we  owe  to  his  Majesty  and  ourselves,  to 
carry  up  to  the  throne  an  address  approving  the  acceptance  of  an  imper- 
fect instrument,  which  has  neither  been  previously  authorized  by  any  spe- 
cial  full  powers  produced  by  the  Spanish  minister,  nor  been  as  yet  ratified 
by  the  King  of  Spain.  If  the  ratification  on  the  part  of  Spain  should  be 
refused,  the  address  of  this  house  will  appear  no  better  than  an  act  of  pre- 
cipitate adulation  to  ministers;  which  will  justly  expose  the  peerage  of  the 
kingdom  to  the  indignation  of  their  country,  and  to  the  derision  of  all 
Europe. 

2.  Because  it  is  a  direct  insult  on  the  feelings  and  understanding  of  the 
people  of  Great  Britain,  to  approve  this  declaration  and  acceptance,  as  a 
means  of  securing  our  own  and  the  general  tranquillity,  whilst  the  great- 
est preparations  for  war  are  making,  both  by  sea  and  land:  and  whilst  the 
practice  of  pressing  is  continued,  as  in  times  of  the  most  urgent  necessity, 
to  the  extreme  inconvenience  of  trade  and  commerce;  and  with  the  great- 
est hardships  to  one  of  the  most  meritorious  and  useful  orders  of  his 
Majesty's  subjects. 

3.  Because  the  refusing  to  put  the  questions  to  the  judges  upon  points 
of  law,  very  essentially  affecting  this  great  question,  and  the  refusing  to 
address  his  Majesty  to  give  orders  for  laying  before  this  house  the  instruc- 
tions relating  to  Falkland's  Islands,  given  to  the  commanders  of  his  Majes- 
ty's ships  employed  there,  is  depriving  us  of  such  lights  as  seemed  highly 
proper  for  us  on  this  occasion. 

4-  Because  from  the  declaration  and  correspondence  laid  before  us,  we 
are  of  opinion  that  the  ministers  merit  the  censure  of  this  house,  rather  than 
any  degree  of  commendation,  on  account  of  several  improper  acts,  and 
equally  improper  omissions,  from  the  beginning  to  the  close  of  this  trans- 
action. For  it  is  asserted  by  the  Spanish  minister,  and  stands  uncontra- 
dicted bj  ours,  that  several  discussions  had  passed  between  the  ministers 
of  the  two  courts  upon  the  subject  of  Falkland's  Islands,  which  might  give 

the 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  395 

clers  upon  it.  It  speaks  then  the  unanimous  sentiments  of 
them  all.  His  Majesty  pronounces  in  common  with  the  rest 
his  own  condemnation  in  that  of  this  unworthy  transaction. 

the  British  ministers  reason  to  foresee  the  attack  upon  that  settlement  that 
was  afterwards  made  by  the  forces  of  Spain.  Captain  Hunt  also,  arriving 
from  thence  so  early  as  the  third  of  June  last,  did  advertise  the  ministers 
of  repeated  warnings  and  menaces  made  by  Spanish  governors  and  com- 
manders of  ships  of  war;  yet  so  obstinately  negligent  and  supine  were  his 
Majesty's  ministers,  and  so  far  from  the  vigilance  and  activity  required  by 
the  trust  and  duty  of  their  offices,  that  they  did  not  even  so  much  as  make 
a  single  representation  to  the  court  of  Madrid;  which  if  they  had  done, 
the  injury  itself  might  have  been  prevented,  or  at  least  so  speedily  re- 
paired, as  to  render  unnecessary  the  enormous  expenses,  to  which  this 
nation  has  been  compelled,  by  waiting  until  the  blow  had  been  actually 
struck,  and  the  news  of  so  signal  an  insult  to  the  crown  of  Great  Britain 
had  arrived  in  Europe.  To  this  wilful,  and  therefore  culpable,  neglect  of 
representation  to  the  court  of  Spain,  was  added  another  neglect,  a  ne- 
glect of  such  timely  preparation,  for  putting  this  nation  into  such  a  state 
of  defence,  as  the  menacing  appearances  on  the  part  of  Spain,  and  the  cri- 
tical condition  of  Europe  required.  These  preparations,  had  they  been  un- 
dertaken early,  would  have  been  executed  with  more  effect,  and  less  ex- 
pense; would  have  been  far  less  distressing  to  our  trade,  and  to  our  sea- 
men; wofild  have  authorized  us  in  the  beginning  to  have  demanded,  and 
would  in  all  probability  have  induced  Spain  to  consent  to,  an  immediate, 
perfect,  and  equitable  settlement  of  all  the  points  in  discussion,  between 
the  two  crowns;  but  all  preparation  having  been  neglected,  the  national 
safety  was  left  depending  rather  upon  accidental  alterations  in  the  inter- 
nal circumstances  of  our  neighbours,  than  in  the  proper  and  natural 
strength  of  the  kingdom;  and  this  negligence  was  highly  aggravated  by 
the  refusal  of  administration  to  consent  to  an  address,  proposed  by  a  noble 
lord  in  this  house  last  session,  for  a  moderate  and  gradual  augmentation 
of  our  naval  forces. 

5.  Because  the  negociation,  entered  into  much  too  late,  was,  from  the 
commencement,  conducted  upon  principles  as  disadvantageous  to  the 
wisdom  of  our  public  councils,  as  it  was  finally  concluded  in  a  manner  dis- 
graceful to  the  honour  of  the  crown  of  Great  Britain;  for  it  appears,  that 
the  Court  of  Madrid  did  disavow  the  act  of  hostility,  as  proceeding  from 
particular  instructions,  but  justified  it  under  her  general  instructions  to 
her  governors,  under  the  oath  by  them  taken,  and  under  the  established 
laws  of  America.  This  general  order  was  never  disavowed  nor  explained; 
nor  wa3  any  disavowal  or  explanation  thereof  ever  demanded  by  our 
ministers:  and  we  apprehend  that  this  justification  of  an  act  of  violence 
under  general  orders,  established  laws,  and  oaths  of  office,  to  be  far  more 
dangerous  and  injurious  to  this  kingdom  than  the  particular  enterprize 
which  has  been  disavowed,  as  it  evidently  supposes,  that  the  governors  of 
the  Spanish  American  provinces  are  not  only  authorized,  but  required, 

without 


396  MISCELLANEOUS 

The  moderate  reparation  to  his  Majesty's  honour  for  the  in- 
jury is  not  obtained  unconditionally;  that  is,  in  the  only  way 
which  he  himself  and  his  servants  thought  indispensable. 

without  any  particular  instructions,  to  raise  great  forces  by  sea  and  land, 
and  to  invade  his  Majesty's  possessions  in  that  part  of  the  world,  in  the 
midst  of  profound  peace. 

6.  Because  this  power,  so  unprecedented  and  alarming',  under  which  the 
Spanish  governor  was  justified  by  his  court,  rendered  it  the  duty  of  our 
ministers  to  insist  upon  some  censure  or  punishment  upon  that  governor, 
in  order  to  demonstrate  the  sincerity  of  the  Court  of  Madrid,  and  of  her 
desire  to  preserve  peace,  by  putting  at  least  some  check  upon  those  exor- 
bitant powers  asserted  by  the  Court  of  Spain  to  be  given  to  her  governors. 
But  although  our  ministers  were  authorized  not  only  by  the  acknowledged 
principles  of  the  law  of  nations,  to  call  for  such  censure  or  punishment, 
but  also  by  the  express  provision  of  the  seventeenth  article  of  the  treaty 
of  Utrecht,  yet  they  have  thought  fit  to  observe  a  profound  silence  on  this 
necessary  article  of  public  reparation.  If  it  were  thought  that  any  circum- 
stances appeared  in  the  particular  case  of  the  governor,  to  make  an  abate- 
ment or  pardon  of  the  punishment  advisable,  that  abatement  or  pardon 
ought  to  have  been  the  effect  of  his  Majesty's  clemency,  and  not  an  im- 
punity to  him,  arising  from  the  ignorance  of  our  ministers  in  the  first 
principles  of  public  law,  or  their  negligence  or  pusillanimity  in  asserting 
them. 

7.  Because  nothing  has  been  had  or  demanded  as  a  reparation  in  damage 
for  the  enormous  expense  and  other  inconveniences,  arising  from  the  con- 
fessed and  unprovoked  violence  of  the  Spanish  forces  in  the  enterprize 
against  Falkland's  Islands,  and  the  long  subsequent  delay  of  justice.  It 
was  not  necessary  to  this  demand  that  it  should  be  made  in  any  improper 
or  offensive  language,  but  in  that  style  of  accommodation  which  has  ever 
been  used  by  able  negotiators. 

8.  Because  an  unparalleled  and  most  audacious  insult  has  been  offered  to 
the  honour  of  the  British  flag,  by  the  detention  of  a  ship  of  war  of  his  Ma- 
jesty's, for  twenty  days  after  the  surrender  of  Port  Egmont,  and  by  the 
indignity  of  forcibly  taking  away  her  rudder:  this  act  could  not  be  sup- 
ported upon  any  idea  of  being  necessary  to  the  reduction  of  the  fort,  nor 
was  any  such  necessity  pretended.  No  reparation  in  honour  has  been  de- 
manded for  this  wanton  insult,  by  which  his  Majesty's  reign  is  rendered 
the  unhappy  xra  in  which  the  honour  of  the  British  flag  has  suffered  the 
first  stain  with  entire  impunity. 

9.  Because  the  Spanish  declaration,  which  our  ministers  have  advised 
his  Majesty  to  accept,  does  in  general  words  imply  his  Majesty's  dis- 
avowal  of  some  acts  on  his  part  tending  to  disturb  the  good  correspondence 
of  the  two  courts,  when  it  is  notorious,  that  no  act  of  violence  whatsoever 
had  been  committed  on  the  part  of  Great  Britain.  By  this  disavowal  of 
some  implied  aggression  in  the  very  declaration,  pretended  to  be  made  for 
reparation  of  the  injured  dignity  of  Great  Britain,  his  Majesty  is  made  to 

admit 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  397 

An  humiliating  stipulation  for  referring  the  discussion  of  the 
prior  right  is  a  defeasance  of  the  reparation.  It  wounds  irre- 
parably the  honour  of  the  king  as  a  private  man,  and  the 

admit  a  supposition  contrary  to  truth,  and  injurious  to  the  justice  and 
honour  of  his  crown. 

10.  Because  in  the  said  declaration  the  restitution  is  confined  to  Port 
Egmont,  when  Spain  herself  originally  offered  to  cede  Falkland's  Islands. 
It  is  known  that  she  made  her  forcible  attack  on  pretence  of  title  to  the 
whole,  and  the  restitution  ought,  therefore,  not  to  have  been  confined  to 
a  part  only,  nor  can  any  reason  be  assigned  why  the  restitution  ought  to 
have  been  made  in  narrower  or  more  ambiguous  words  than  the  claims  of 
Spain,  on  whicli  her  act  of  violence  was  grounded,  and  her  offers  of  resti- 
tution originally  made. 

11.  Because  the  declaration,  by  which  his  Majesty  is  to  obtain  posses- 
sion of  Port  Egmont,  contains  a  reservation  or  condition  of  the  question  of 
a  claim  of  prior  right  of  sovereignty  in  the  Catholic  King  to  the  whole  of 
Falkland's  Islands,  being  the  first  time  such  a  claim  has  ever  authentically 
appeared  in  any  public  instrument  jointly  concluded  on  by  the  two  courts. 
No  explanation  of  the  principles  of  this  claim  has  been  required,  although 
there  is  just  reason  to  believe  that  these  principles  will  equally  extend  to 
restrain  the  liberty  and  confine  the  extent  of  British  navigation.  No  counter 
claim  has  been  made  on  the  part  of  his  Majesty,  to  the  right  of  his  sov- 
reignty,  in  any  part  of  tke  said  island  ceded  to  him;  any  assertion  whatso- 
ever, of  his  Majesty's  right  of  sovereignty,  has  hern  studiously  avoided, 
from  the  beginning  to  the  accomplishment  of  this  unhappy  transaction; 
which,  after  ihe  expense  of  millions,  s-jttlcs  no  contest,  asserts  no  right, 
exacts  no  reparation,  affords  no  security,  but  stands  as  a  monument  of  re- 
proach to  the  wisdom  of  the  national  councils,  of  dishonour  to  the  essen- 
tial dignity  of  his  Majesty's  crown,  and  of  disgrace  to  the  hitherto  un- 
tainted honour  of  the  British  flag. 

After  having  given  these  reasons,  founded  on  the  facts  which  appeared 
from  the  papers,  we  think  it  necessary  here  to  disclaim  an  invidious  and 
injurious  imputation,  substituted  in  the  place  of  fair  argument,  that  they 
who  will  not  approve  of  this  convention,  are  for  precipitating  their  country 
into  the  calamities  of  war.  We  are  as  far  from  the  design,  and  we  trust 
much  farther  from  the  act  of  kindling  the  flame  of  war,  than  those  who 
have  advised  his  M.jesty  to  accept  of  the  declaration  of  the  Spanish  am- 
bassador. We  have  never  entertained  the  least  thought  of  invalidating 
this  public  act;  but  if  ministers  may  not  be  censured,  or  even  punished  for 
treaties  which,  though  valid,  are  injurious  to  the  national  interest  and 
honour,  without  a  supposition  of  the  breach  of  public  faith  in  this  house, 
that  should  censure  or  punish,  or  of  a  b.  ea'-li  of  the  laws  of  humanity  in 
those  who  propose  such  censure  or  punishment,  the  use  of  the  peers,  as  a 
controul  on  ministers,  and  as  the  best  as  well  as  highest  council  of  the 
crown,  will  be  rendered  of  no  avail.  We  have  no  doubt  but  a  declaration 
more  adequate  to  our  just  pretensions,  and  to  the  dignity  of  the  crow  n, 

might 


393  MISCELLANEOUS 

glory  of  the  kingdom;  but  when  that  stipulation  carries  along 
with  it  also  a  private  insinuation  or  encouragement  to  the 
Catholic  King  to  hope,  and  most  probably,  not  to  say  cer- 
tainly, an  express  assurance,  that  not  only  Port  Egraont, 
now  restored  to  us,  but  the  whole  island,  shall  in  due  time, 
as  soon  as  they  dare,  be  surrendered  to  the  crown  of  Spain, — 
no  words  can  express  the  meanness  or  folly  of  such  a  pro- 
ceeding. Our  tame  submission  to  France  in  the  Corsican 
business  has  drawn  this  atrocious  insult  upon  us.  This  in- 
sult, accompanied  with  the  indignities  contained,  by  the 
minister's  own  confession,  in  the  convention,  will  renew  to 
us,  in  the  mouths  of  the  proud  and  triumphant  Spaniards,  the 
ignominious  title  ofGallinas  del  Mar,  and  we  shall  deservedly 
become  a  bye-word  of  contempt  amongst  the  nations.  The 
only  reparation  which  it  can  be  pretended  that  Spain  makes, 
is  the  temporary  restitution  of  Port  Egmont.  Restoring  to  me 
my  possessions  violently  seized  is  an  act  of  justice  not  of  re- 
paration: but  with  what  indelible  shame  shall  we  be  covered, 
when  it  is  seen  that  we  pitifully  traffic  away  what  was  insult- 
might  have  been  obtained  without  the  effusion  of  blood;  not  only  from  the 
favourable  circumstances  of  the  conjuncture,  but  because  our  just  de- 
mands were  no  more  than  any  sovereign  power,  who  had  injured  another 
through  inadvertence  or  mistake,  ought,  even  from  regard  to  its  own 
honour,  to  have  granted:  and  we  are  satisfied  that  the  obtaining  such 
terms  would  have  been  the  only  secure  means  of  establishing-  a  lasting 
and  honourable  peace. 

Richmond,  Audley, 

Bolton,  King, 

Manchester,  Torrington, 

Tankerville,  Milton, 

Chatham,  Abergavenny, 

Wycombe,  Fitt/william, 

Craven,  Ponsonby, 

Boyle,  Scarborough, 

Devonshire,  Archer. 

DISSENTIENT. 

Because,  though  the  disavowal  may  be  considered  as  humiliating  to  the 
Court  of  Spain,  the  declaration  and  acceptance,  under  the  reservation  of 
the  question  of  prior  right,  do  not,  in  my  opinion,  after  the  heavy  expenses 
incurred,  either  convey  a  satisfaction  adequate  to  the  insult  on  the  honour 
of  Great  Britain,  or  afford  any  reasonable  grounds  to  believe  that  peace, 
on  the  terms  of  honour,  can  be  lasting. 

Edit.  Radnor 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  399 

ingly  wrested  from  us,  and  yield  the  whole  to  the 'aggressor 
under  any  pretence  or  colour  whatever?  The  insult  was  com- 
mitted after  repeated  notices  of  our  right,  in  full  peace:  it 
was  an  insult  not  only  to  the  flag  of  England  hitherto  spot- 
less, but  to  the  whole  majesty  of  the  kingdom,  by  direct  hos- 
tilities committed  as  in  time  of  actual  war,  so  as  to  inforce  a 
formal  capitulation:  a  proceeding  till  now  unheard  of,  sub- 
mitted to  with  a  meanness  and  treachery  on  the  part  of  our 
rulers,  which  nothing  can  now  palliate.  We  deceive  our- 
selves if  we  think  the  peace  can  be  maintained  by  pusilla- 
nimity and  baseness.  Remember  "  his  Majesty  cannot  ac- 
cept, under  a  convention,  that  satisfaction  to  which  he  has  so 
just  a  title,  without  entering  into  any  engagements  to  pro- 
cure it*." 

A  Member  of  one  House  of  Parliament  in  mourning 
for  the  honour  of  his  King  and  Country. 


LETTER  LXXXIX. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC  ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  16  February,  1771. 

It  is  proper  the  public  should  be  informed  that,  upon  Lord 
Gower's  election  to  be  a  Knight  of  the  Garter,  there  were 
but  four  knights  present,  besides  the  sovereign,  and  the  Duke 
of  Gloucester  was  lugged  in  to  be  one  of  them.  He  intreated, 
he  begged,  he  implored, — but  all  to  no  purpose.  Poor  Peg 
Trentham  was  forced  to  submit  to  an  election,  which,  by  the 
statutes  of  the  order,  is  void. — Ashmole  informs  us,  that  M  to 
make  up  a  complete  chapter  of  election,  there  should  be  as-' 
sembled  six  knights  companions  at  the  least,  besides  the 
sovereign;  the  due  observance  of  which  hath  been  so  strict 
formerly,  that  elections  have  been  deferred,  where  chapters 
have  been  deficient  in  that  numberf." 

*  See  this  subject  further  discussed  in  Junius,  Letter  xlii.  and  notes 
appended  to  it.   Edit. 

f  The  same  fact  is  related,  and  probably  by  the  same  correspondent,  in 
the  following  article  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  February  15,  1771. 

A  correspondent  has  sent  us  the  following-  remarks  on  the  London 
Gazette,  published  by  authority. 

This 


400  MISCELLANEOUS 

The  present  way  of  electing  Peg  Trentham,  is,  for  two 
reasons,  remarkable.  It  shews  first,  in  what  profound  con- 
tempt poor  Peggy  is  universally  held.  And  secondly,  the 
pious  resolution  of  our  gracious  sovereign  to  introduce  a  new 
system  of  arithmetic.  In  the  decision  of  the  Middlesex  elec- 
tion it  was  resolved  that  296  were  more  than  1143,  and  now 
we  are  told  that  four  are  equal  to  six. — This  puts  me  in 
mind  of  Lord  March's  election  to  the  Coterie. — All  the 
balls  were  black; — but  the  returning  officer,  George  Selwyn, 
thought  proper  to  swear  he  was  duly  elected,  and  he  took  his 
seat  accordingly. 

A.  B. 

This  lying-  paper  contains  the  following  unprecedented  article:  "  St. 
James's,  Feb.  11.  This  day  a  chapter  of  the  most  noble  Order  of  the  Gar- 
ter was  held  in  the  great  Council  Chamber,  when  Granville  Levison 
Gower,  Earl  Gower,  being  first  knighted,  was  afterwards  elected  and  in- 
vested with  the  garter,  ribbon  and  George,  with  the  usual  solemnity."  It 
is  most  notorious  to  a  great  concourse  of  nobility  and  gentry  then  present, 
that  there  were  only  assisting  the  best  of  kings,  the  Dukes  of  Gloucester, 
Newcastle,  and  Northumberland,  consequently  it  is  impossible  that  any 
election  can  have  been  made,  the  statutes  of  the  order  requiring  the  pre- 
sence of  the  sovereign  with  six  knights.  The  best  of  kings,  whose  duty  it 
is  to  preserve  the  laws  inviolable,  could  to  be  sure  on  no  consideration, 
not  even  the  election  of  that  most  worthy  peer  the  Earl  Gower  into  this 
noble  order,  be  prevailed  upon,  in  the  face  of  all  England,  to  set  the  ex- 
ample of  openly  violating  the  statutes  which  have  hitherto  been  so  reli- 
giously respected  and  observed  through  so  many  ages.  Had  there  been  an 
election  the  Gazette  would  have  proclaimed  it  in  the  usual  form,  the 
knights  present  would  have  been  enumerated  and  named.  It  is  impossible 
that  the  best  of  kings  can  be  a  party  to  the  illegally  smuggling  in  a 
knight  upon  that  most  noble  order,  in  the  same  manner  as  a  knight  for  the 
county  of  Middlesex  has  been  smuggled  into  the  House  of  Commons.  If 
this  article  of  news  could  be  true,  would  not  the  kingdom  have  reason  to 
lament  that  all  order,  decency  and  respect,  for  ancient  rules  and  establish- 
ment, is  now  broken  through  by  the  person  whose  peculiar  duty  and  in- 
terest it  is  to  preserve  them?  Is  the  court  itself  so  unpopular,  or  is  the  sub- 
ject of  his  Majesty's  favour  so  unworthy,  that  it  was,  after  ten  days  wait- 
ing, impossible  to  procure  the  attendance  of  more  than  the  king's  own 
brother,  the  lord  chamberlain,  the  auditor  of  the  exchequer,  and  the 
Duke  of  Northumberland  in  flannels? 

Risum  teneatis  amid! 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.         401 


LETTER  XC. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC  ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  22  February,  1771. 

The  advocates  of  the  ministry  are,  in  point  of  ignorance, 
upon  a  level  with  the  people,  whose  conduct  they  defend*. 
The  questions  they  ask  are  suicide  to  their  own  cause. 
Gibraltar  and  Minorca  were  yielded  to  England  by  the 
treaty  of  Utrecht,  to  which  treaty  Spain  acceded;  and,  ad- 
mitting that  they  have  never  given  up  in  form  their  claim  to 
Jamaica,  it  is  also  true  that,  since  the  treaty  of  Utrecht,  they 
have  never  asserted  such  a  claim,  much  less  have  we  allowed 
it  to  be  inserted  in  any  treaty  between  the  two  crowns.  But, 
Sir,  the  real  question  is,  not  what  declarations  or  pretensions 
Spain  may  have  thought  proper  to  advance,  but,  what  decla- 
rations or  pretensions  on  their  part,  have  we  admitted  and 
accepted?  To  support  a  fair  comparison  between  the  terms, 
on  which  we  hold  the  above  places,  and  those  on  which  Port 
Egmont  is  restored,  it  should  be  proved  that  Spain,  in  some 
treaty  between  us  and  it,  has  asserted  its  claim  of  prior  right 
to  Jamaica,  Gibraltar  and  Minorca,  and  that  we  have,  with 
equal  formality,  accepted  a  treaty  containing  such  an  express 
reservation,  and  declared  ourselves  satisfied  with  it.  The 
ministry  would  then  have  an  example  in  point*. 

VINDEX. 

*  The  following  is  a  copy  of  the  paragraph  which  occasioned  the  fore- 
going essay: 

"  People  who  would  cavil,  and  are  clamorous  about  that  part  of  the 
Spanish  declaration,  where  the  King-  of  Spain  makes  a  reservation  of  a 
prior  claim  of  right  to  Falkland  Island,  would  do  well  to  consider,  that 
such  reservation  is  only  mere  matter  of  form,  and  is  never  likely  to  pro- 
duce the  smallest  misunderstanding  between  the  two  crowns,  especially 
when  they  recollect,  or  may  inform  themselves,  that  Spain  never,  to  this 
hour,  has  renounced  her  formal  claim  of  right,  either  to  Minorca  or  Gib- 
raltar, in  the  treaties  subsequent  to  our  possession  of  those  places."  Edit. 

*  The  printer  thought  proper  at  the  time,  with  the  consent  of  the 
author,  see  Private  Letter,  No.  33.  to  break  off  at  this  point,  and  to 
sui  press  the  remainder  of  the  essay.  The  autograph  of  the  entire  letter  i3 
still  in  the  hands  of  the  proprietor  of  this  editions  but  it  would  be  a  breach 

Vol.  II.  3  E 


402  MISCELLANEOUS 


LETTER  XCI. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC  ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  6  March,  1771. 

Pray  tell  that  ingenious  gentleman,  Mr.  Laughlin  Mac- 
leane*,  that  when  the  King  of  Spain  writes  to  the  King  of 
Great  Britain  he  omits  four-fifths  of  his  titles,  and  when  our 
king  writes  to  him,  his  address  is  always  Carolo,  dei  gratia, 
Hispaniarum,  Utriasque  Sicilice,  et  Indiarum  Regi  Catholico, 
It  was  reserved  for  his  present  Majesty  to  say,  in  a  public 
instrument,  "  Falkland  Island  is  one  of  my  possessions,  and 
yet  I  allow  the  king  of  Spain  to  reserve  a  claim  of  prior 
right,  and  I  declare  myself  satisfied  with  that  reservation." 
In  spite  of  Mr.  Laughlin's  disinterested,  unbroken,  melodi- 
ous eloquence,  it  is  a  melancholy  truth  that  the  crown  of 
England  was  never  so  insulted,  never  so  shamefully  de- 
graded, as  by  this  declaration,  with  which  the  best  of  sove- 
reigns assures  his  people  he  is  perfectly,  entirely,  completely 
satisfied. 

VINDEX 


LETTER  XCII. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  25  March,  1771. 

However  the  court  might  have  concealed  its  designs; 
however  it  might  have  deluded  those  who  were  disposed  to 

of  confidence  to  continue  it  further.  Independently  of  which  he  altogether 
approves  of  the  suppression.   Edit. 

*  Laughlin  Macleane  had  been  under  secretary  of  state  during  Lord 
Shelburne's  possession  of  the  office  for  the  southern  department.  In  his 
defence  of  the  ministry  here  referred  to,  he  still  discovers  a  hankering 
after  office,  and  at  least  a  disposition  to  forgive  them  for  his  dismission. 
Mr.  Campbell,  however,  in  his  fife  of  Hugh  Boyd,  p.  125,  tells  us  that  at 
this  very  period  he  possessed  "a  mortal  hatred  for  his  Grace  (of  Grafton), 
and  indulged  his  resentment  by  painting  him  in  the  blackest  colours!!!" 
See  note  on  this  subject  in  the  preliminary  essay.  In  January,  in  the  fol- 
lowing year,  he  received  from  Lord  North  the  collectorship  of  Philadel- 
phia, and  subsequently  an  appointment  to  India,  in  his  voyage  to  which 
he  was  lost.  Edit. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  403 

be  deceived,  the  imposition  can  exist  no  longer.  The  triplet 
union  of  crown,  lords,  and  commons  against  England  dis- 
plays itself  with  a  violence  and  a  candour,  which  statesmen 
in  other  conspiracies  seldom  have  adopted.  It  is  no  more  a 
question  of  royal  antipathy  or  feminine  unrelenting  resent- 
ment; it  is  not  a  single  inconsequent  act  of  arbitrary  power; 
it  is  not  the  offensive  individual,  but  the  free  constitution  of 
this  country,  whose  destruction  engages  the  influence  of  the 
crown  and  the  authority  of  parliament. 

The  House  of  Commons  assume  a  power  of  imprisonment 
during  pleasure  for  actions  which  the  laws  have  not  made 
criminal.  They  create  a  crime  as  well  as  a  punishment. 
They  call  upon  the  king  to  support  their  illegality  by  a  pro- 
clamation still  more  illegal;  and  the  liberty  of  the  press  is  the 
object  of  this  criminal  alliance.  They  expunge  a  recogni- 
zance; they  stagnate  the  course  ot  justice,  and  thereby  as- 
sume an  absolute  power  over  the  law  and  property  of  Great 
Britain*. 

*  The  whole  of  this  requires  explanation.   The  printers  of  newspapers 
having  long  intended  it,  now  resolutely  determined  to  report  the  debates  of 
both  houses.  Col.  Onslow  made  a  motion  against  them  as  guilty  of  a  viola- 
tion of  the  privileges  of  parliament:  and  the  printers  were  summoned  to  at- 
tend: Wheble  and  Miller  however  refused  to  obey  the  order;  and  the  minis-    \ 
ter  thought  proper  to  issue  a  proclamation  in  his  Majesty's  name,  and  insert 
it  in  the  Gazette,  offering  a  reward  of  fifty  pounds  for  apprehending  John 
Wheble,  printer  of  the  Middlesex  Journal,  and  John  Miller,  printer  of 
the  London  Evening  Post,  for  daring  to  publish  certain  speeches  delivered    . 
in  parliament.  In  consequence  of  this  proclamation  they  were  both  appre-     | 
bended;  Wheble  by  a  brother-printer  of  the  name  of  Carpenter,  who     ! 
owed  him  a  grudge,  and  Miller  by  William  Whittam,  a  messenger  of  the  / 
House  of  Commons.  The  former  was  carried  before  Mr.  Wilkes,  at  that , 
time  just  liberated  from  the  King's  Bench,  and,  as  alderman  for  Farring- 
1   don  Without,  sitting-magistrate  at  Guildhall:  who  denying  the  legal  auj4 
thority  of  a  mere  proclamation,  discharged  Wheble,  and  took  a  recogni- 
zance of  him  to  prosecute  Carpenter  for  an  assault  and  unlawful  impri- 
sonment. Miller  upon  his  arrest  sent  for  a  constable,  to  whom  he  gave 
charge  of  the  messenger  who  arrested  him,  and  immediately  carried  him 
to  the  Mansion-house,  where  the  Lord  Mayor,  Mr.  Alderman  Wilkes/and 
Mr.   Alderman  Oliver  jointly  heard  the  cause,  discharged  Miller/  and 
signed  a  warrant  of  commitment  of  the  messenger  to  the  Compter  fir  the 
assault  and  false  imprisonment;  from  which  however  he  was  released 
upon  finding  bail.  Wilkes  at  the  same  time  that  these  transaction^  were 

officially 


404  MISCELLANEOUS 

The  House  of  Lords  have  not  been  backward  in  their  con- 
tribution to  the  scheme  of  slavery;  for  they  have  imprisoned, 
and  they  have  fined.  The  crime  like  the  punishment  was  in 
their  own  bosom.  They  were  ex  post  facto  legislators.  They 

officially  entered  by  the  Lord  Mayor's  clerk  into  the  Mansion-house  rota 
book,  addressed  a  letter  to  Lord  Halifax,  one  of  the  secretaries  of  state, 
informing  him  of  the  steps  he  had  taken. 

All  was  confusion  and  uproar.  The  house  of  Commons  supported  the 
legality  of  the  proclamation:  issued  an  order  to  prohibit  every  kind  of  pro- 
secution or  suit  from  being  commenced  or  carried  on  for  or  on  account  of 
the  assault  and  imprisonment  of  the  printers;  ordered  the  clerk  to  attend 
who  had  entered  the  proceedings  in  the  Mansion-house  minute  book; 
erased  the  entire  record;  and  summoned  the  different  aldermen  who  had 
officiated  to  appear  at  the  bar  of  the  house  to  answer  for  their  conduct. 

The  city  first  of  all,  and  afterwards  the  nation  at  large,  was  extremely 
indignant  at  such  illegal  violence.  The  lord  mayor's  clerk  was  severely 
reprimanded  at  a  general  court  of  aldermen  for  suffering  the  city  minute 
book  to  be  mutilated;  the  Bill  of  Rights  society  complained  vehemently 
against  the  outrages-committed; — Wilkes  refused  to  obey  the  summons 
for  his  attendance,  and  the  lord  mayor  and  his  other  colleagues  upon  at- 
tending and  justifying  their  conduct  were  committed  to  the  Tower,  for 
pretended  contumacy.  It  was  on  this  occasion  that  the  lord  mayor  (Crosby) 
made  the  following  spirited  reply: — 

"  Mr.  Speaker, — an  honourable  gentleman  has  talked  of  the  lenity  to  be 
shewn  me  on  account  of  my  health,  and  my  being  only  committed  to  the 
'custody  of  the  sergeant  at  arms.  I  thank  God  that  my  health  is  better 
than  it  lias  been  for  some  time  past.  I  know  that  I  was  prejudged  on 
Monday,  and  that  the  string  of  resolutions  and  warrants  is  now  in  the 
gentleman's  pocket.  I  ask  no  favour  of  this  house.  I  crave  no  mercy  from 
the  treasury-bench.  I  am  ready  to  go  to  my  noble  friend  at  the  Tower,  if 
the  house  shall  order  me.  My  conscience  is  clear,  and  tells  me  that  I  iiave 
kept  my  oath,  and  done  my  duty  to  the  city,  of  which  I  have  the  honour 
to  be  chief  magistrate,  and  to  my  country.  I  wdl  never  betray  the  privi- 
leges of  the  citizens,  nor  the  rights  of  the  people.  I  have  no  apology  to 
make  for  having  acted  uprightly,  and  I  fear  not  any  resentment  in  conse- 
quence of  such  conduct.  I  will  through  life  continue  to  obey  the  dictates 
of  honour  and  onscience,  to  give  my  utmost  support  to  every  part  of  the 
constitution  of  this  kingdom,  and  the  event  I  shall  always  leave  to  Hea- 
ven, at  all  times  ready  to  meet  my  fate." 

The  lord  mayor  was  accompanied  to  the  Tower  by  an  immense  con- 
course of  the  livery,  as  well  as  of  persons  not  connected  with  the  police 
of  the  city,  many  of  them  of  the  utmost  respectability;  he  was  visited  by 
the  Dukes  of  anchester  and  Portland,  E  rls  Fitxwilliam  and  Tanker- 
ville,  Lord  King,  Ad  iial  Keppcl,  -  r  Charles  Saunders,  Mr.  Dowdes- 
well,  Mr.  Burke,  and  many  other  commoners;  as  also  by  the  two  sheriffs, 


i 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  405 

were  parties;  they  were  judges;  and,  instead  of  a  court  of 
final  judicature,  acted  as  a  court  of  criminal  jurisdiction  in 
the  first  instance.  The  three  estates,  instead  of  being  a  con- 
troul  upon  each  other,  are  let  loose  upon  the  constitution. 
The  absolute  power  of  the  crown,  by  the  assistance  of  the 
handmaid  corruption,  puts  on  the  disguise  of  privilege.  In 
the  arrangement  of  hostility,  the  associated  senate  takes  the 
lead,  and  illegal  proclamation  brings  up  the  rear  of  oppres- 
sion. The  cabal  advances  upon  us  as  an  army  once  did  upon 
a  town — it  displayed  before  it  a  multitude  of  nuns,  and 
overawed  the  resistance  of  the  besieged  by  the  venerable  ap- 
pearance. So  the  cabinet  puts  forth  the  countenance  of  par- 
liament, and  marches  against  the  constitution  under  the 
shelter  of  the  hallowed  frailty. 

in  order  to  express  their  entire  disapprobation  of  the  proceedings  that  had 
taken  place  against  them;  and  the  thanks  of  the  city  were  voted  unani- 
mously, at  a  meeting  of  common  council  holden  March  28,  to  such  mem- 
bers of  the  House  of  Commons  as  had  supported  the  conduct  of  the  lord 
mayor  and  his  colleagues,  and  maintained  the  rights  and  privileges  of  the 
city.  The  common  council  voted  that  all  the  expenses  of  the  lord  mayor's 
and  Mr.  Oliver's  table,  &c.  &c.  should  be  defrayed  by  the  city. 

The  magistrates  in  order  to  obtain  their  discharge  were  carried  by  ha- 
beas corpus  first  before  Lord  Chief  Justice  De  Grey,  and  afterwards  before 
Lord  Mansfield;  but  both  judges  refusing  to  discharge  them,  they  were 
remanded  to  the  Tower.  In  the  mean  time,  in  direct  opposition  to  the 
order  of  the  House  of  Commons,  the  Grand  Jury,  at  the  ensuing  quarter- 
sessions  at  Guildhall,  found  bills  of  indictment  against  Carpenter,  and 
Whittam,  the  messenger  of  the  house,  for  the  assault  and  imprisonment 
of  Miller  and  Wheble.  The  lord  mayor  and  his  colleagues  remained  in 
the  Tower  till  the  8th  of  May,  on  which  day  his  Majesty  by  proroguing; 
the  parliament,  terminated  its  power  of  confining  them  any  longer. 

It  is  not  necessary  at  this  time  to  enter  into  the  question  of  the  legality 
or  illegality  of  the  power  claimed  in  this  instance  by  the  House  of  Com- 
mons, under  the  specious  name  of  parliamentary  privilege.  They  virtually 
admit' ed  themselves  to  have  erred,  by  their  subsequent  conduct  towards 
Mr.  Wilkes;  who  though  by  far  the  most  culpable  of  the  whole  (admitting 
culpability  of  any  kind)  was  suffered  to  remain  unmolested,  except  by 
serving  him  with  three  successive  summonses  to  appear  at  the  bar  of  the 
house,  every  one  of  which  he  contemptuously  refused  to  obey,  unless  the 
house  would  sufFer  him  to  take  his  place  as  member  for  Middlesex.  The 
result  of  the  contest  has  terminated  favourably  for  the  public,  who  have 
ever  s  nee  been  put  into  possession  of  the  debates  of  both  houses,  through 
Jhe  medium  of  newspaper  reporters.  Edit 


406  MISCELLANEOUS 

What  has  an  Englishman  now  to  hope  for?  He  must  turn 
from  king,  lords,  and  commons,  and  look  up  to  God  and 
himself  if  he  means  to  be  free.  He  sees  the  representation 
of  the  kingdom  taken  from  the  people — the  law  dispensed 
with — the  obligation  of  a  contract  erased — the  liberty  of  the 
subject  invaded — the  freedom  of  the  press  violated — by  the 
House  of  Commons.  By  the  House  of  Lords  he  sees  liberty, 
property,  and  the  freedom  of  the  press  assaulted  likewise, 
and  the  decision  *  of  justice  in  its  last  resort  a  question  of 
influence,  not  of  law.  He  beholds  three  supreme  powers  in- 
stead of  one,  and  the  constitution  a  separate  plunder  to  each: 
or  rather  he  beholds  one  estate  possessed  of  the  power  by 
the  profligacy  of  the  rest. — If  the  cabinet  should  prevail,  we 
shall  not  only  be  enslaved,  but  disgraced.  The  man  and 
means  that  enslave  us  would  be  an  additional  dishonour. 

An  Englishman,  and  Enemy 
to  the  Cabinet  therefore. 


LETTER  XCIIIf. 
For  the  Public  Advertiser. 

29  March,  1771- 

10  THE  RIGHT  HONOURABLE  THE  LORD  MAYOR,  MR.  ALDERMAN 
OLIVER,  AND  MR.  ALDERMAN  WILKES. 
My  Lord  and  Gentlemen, 
As  your  conduct  in  regard  to  the  business  of  the  printers 
is  become  the  universal  subject  of  conversation,  I  will  take 
the  liberty  of  communicating  my  sentiments  to  you  in  this 
public  manner.  The  business  first  opened  with  a  printer's 
being  taken  up  by  virtue  of  the  king's  proclamation,  and  car- 
ried before  Mr.  Alderman  Wilkes  (who  was  sitting  as  a 

*  In  the  case  of  Lord  Pomfret  and  Smith. 

-j- There  is  some  doubt  as  to  the  genuineness  of  this  as  well  as  of  the 
ensuing  letter;  but  us  they  are  illustrative  of  one  of  Junius's  most  impor- 
tant letters,  No.  xliv;  as  they  are  excellently  composed,  and  the  subject 
has  been  in  some  measure  recently  agitated,  the  editor  could  not  consent 
to  suppress  them.  The  quotation  from  Hawkins,  inserted  in  the  second 
letter,  will  be  found  adopted  by  Junius  as  one  of  his  notes  to  the  letter 
kist  referred  to. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  407 

justice  of  the  peace  for  the  city  of  London)  in  order  to  his 
being  committed  by  virtue  of  that  proclamation  only.  Mr. 
Wilkes  discharged  the  printer,  and  upon  his  complaint  veri- 
fied upon  oath,  bound  over  the  apprehender  to  appear  at  the 
quarter-sessions,  and  the  printer  to  prosecute  for  an  assault. 
In  considering  the  legality  of  this  proceeding  I  will  totally 
lay  out  of  the  question  the  privileges  and  franchises  of  the 
city  of  London,  as  I  think  this  part  of  the  case  does  not  re- 
quire any  assistance  from  them,  though  they  may  be  very 
material  in  the  subsequent  proceedings  as  to  the  messenger 
of  the  House  of  Commons.  The  first  consideration  then  will 
be,  what  was  the  force  and  effect  of  the  proclamation?  In 
Judge  Dalison's  Reports,  which  is  a  book  of  authority,  p. 
20,  2  and  3  Phil,  and  Mary,  it  is  said,  "  Note,  It  was  agreed 
for  law,  that  the  king  may  make  a  proclamation  to  his  sub- 
jects quo  ad  terrorem  populi,  to  put  them  in  fear  of  his  dis- 
pleasure, but  not  upon  other  pain  certain  as  to  forfeit  their 
lands  or  goods,  or  to  make  fine,  or  to  suffer  imprisonment 
or  other  pain;  for  no  proclamation  shall  make  a  law  which 
was  not  before,  but  may  confirm  and  ratify  an  ancient  law, 
but  not  change  it,  or  make  anew  one;  yet  diverse  precedents 
were  shewn  out  of  the  exchequer  to  the  contrary,  but  the 
justices  would  not  have  any  regard  to  them,  quod  nota" 
And  in  the  12th  Part  of  Sir  Edward  Coke's  Reports,  which 
is  a  book  of  the  highest  authority,  p.  74,  in  the  8  Ja.  1st, 
(when  prerogative  ran  high)  you  will  find  a  case  called  the 
case  of  proclamations,  which,  amongst  other  things,  contains 
these  resolutions:  "  That  the  king  by  his  proclamation  or 
otherways  cannot  change  any  part  of  the  common  law,  or 
statute  law,  or  the  customs  of  the  realm."  That  the  king 
cannot  create  any  offence  by  his  prohibition  or  proclamation, 
which  was  not  an  offence  before;  and  that  "  that  which  can- 
not be  punished  without  proclamation  cannot  be  punished 
with  it."  That  the  king  may  by  his  proclamation  admonish 
his  subjects  to  keep  the  laws,  but  cannot  make  a  thing  un- 
la<vful  which  the  law  permits.  And  this,  as  the  learned  re- 
porter observes,  was  well  proved  by  the  ancient  and  continual 
forms  of  indictments,  for  all  indictments  conclude  contra  le- 


408  MISCELLANEOUS 

gem  et  consuetudinem  Anglice,  or  contra  leges  et  statuta,  £s?c 
"  But  never  was  seen  an  indictment  to  conclude  contra  re- 
giam  proclamctionem." 

The  learned  reporter  puts  several  instances  of  illegal  pro- 
clamations, and  amongst  the  rest  this:  An  act  was  made  by 
which  foreigners  were  licensed  to  merchandize  within  Lon- 
don. H.  4.  by  proclamation  prohibited  the  execution  of  it, 
and  that  it  should  be  in  suspense  usque  ad  proximum  parlia~ 
?nentum,  which,  says  the  learned  reporter,  was  against  law. 
Vide  Dors.  Claus.  8  Hen.  4.  Proclamation  in  London.  Here 
give  me  leave  to  make  one  observation,  that  any  proclama- 
tion which  infringes  the  ancient  customs,  privileges  and  fran- 
chises of  the  city  of  London,  infringes  the  statute  laws  of 
this  land;  for  the  customs,  privileges  and  franchises  of  the 
city  of  London  are  confirmed  and  established  by  various  acts 
of  parliament.  The  case  still  goes  on,  and  says,  that  the  law 
of  England  is  divided  into  three  parts,  common  law,  statute 
law,  and  custom;  "but  the  king's  proclamation  is  none  of 
them."  And  the  learned  reporter  concludes  in  saying:  after 
this  resolution  no  proclamation  imposing  fine  and  imprison- 
ment was  afterwards  made;  and  I  have  no  doubt  but  the 
learned  reporter  thought  that  after  this  solemn  decision  no 
such  proclamations  would  ever  be  issued  in  any  future  times: 
but,  alas!  he  did  not  see  the  jurisprudence  of  the  reign  of 
George  the  Third. 

I  think  I  may  call  this  case  a  solemn  determination,  be- 
cause it  was  settled  upon  great  deliberation  by  the  two  chief 
justices,  the  chief  baron  and  Baron  Altham,upon  conference 
betwixt  the  lords  of  the  privy  council  and  them.  When  the 
printer  was  brought  before  Mr.  Wilkes,  Mr.  Wilkes  acted 
as  a  magistrate,  and  in  a  judicial  capacity;  and  had  he  impri- 
soned the  printer,  or  any  other  subject  of  this  kingdom  upon 
less  evidence  than  the  law  required,  he  would  have  been 
highly  criminal.  And  in  a  case  where  the  liberty  of  the  sub* 
ject  was  concerned,  it  required  the  best  and  the  highest  evi- 
dence to  justify  the  deprivation  of  that  liberty.  The  law  and 
rules  of  evidence  "are  part  of  the  common  law  of  the  land," 
and  the  king  cannot  "  by  his  proclamation  alter  or  suspend 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  409 

any  of  those  laws  or  rules;  for  that  would  be  to  alter  the  law 
of  the  land,  and  in  direct  opposition  to  those  respectable  au- 
thorities I  have  cited."  It  is  a  law  and  a  rule  of  evidence 
that  no  judge  or  justice  can  judicially  take  notice  of  a  pri- 
vate act  of  parliament,  much  less  can  they  judicially  take 
notice  of  a  private  order  of  the  House  of  Commons  relative 
to  two  individuals  only.  Nay  if  you  add  to  it  the  sanction 
of  the  royal  proclamation,  and  consider  it  as  the  act  of  the 
king  and  commons,  does  it  mend  the  matter?  Does  it  give  it 
greater  authority  in  point  of  legal  evidence  than  an  act  of 
parliament?  I  should  be  glad  to  be  informed  if  the  constitu- 
tion has  given  such  an  arbitrary  power  of  imprisonment  to 
the  House  of  Commons  as  they  claim,  why  it  has  not  given 
them  proper  officers  to  enforce  it  without  resorting  to  the 
king?  Why  has  not  the  serjeant  at  arms  a  power  to  raise  the 
posse  comitatus?  Why  are  not  people  punishable  for  not 
giving  him  assistance?  And  yet  I  dare  say  there  is  not  a  law- 
book that  has  attributed  this  power  to  him,  nor  did  we  ever 
hear  of  a  person  punished  for  refusing  him  assistance,  which 
in  my  apprehension  is  a  strong  argument  against  the  power 
claimed  by  the  House  of  Commons  against  the  printers.  I 
should  be  glad  too  to  be  informed  what  law,  usage,  or  cus- 
tom, has  made  the  king  the  minister  to  authenticate  the  or- 
ders of  the  House  of  Commons,  when  it  first  began,  and 
where  it  is  to  be  found.  By  what  writ  or  authority  does  the 
order  come  before  the  king  to  be  authenticated,  and  where 
is  it  to  be  found?  I  never  yet  saw  any  statute,  case,  or  even 
dictum  to  authorise  this.  And  if  the  law  has  not  intrusted 
the  king  with  the  power  of  authenticating  the  orders  of  the 
House  of  Commons  by  his  royal  proclamation,  every  judge 
and  justice  in  this  kingdom  will  do  right  in  paying  no  regard 
to  them  under  such  a  sanction.  I  have  known  trials  where  it 
has  been  necessary  to  give  in  evidence  the  proceedings  and 
determinations  of  the  House  of  Commons,  which  have  al- 
ways been  done  by  proving  them  upon  oath  to  be  true  copies 
of  the  journals  by  the  witness  who  examined  them.  And 
though  Mr.  Wilkes  might  be  convinced  in  his  mind  that 
there  was  such  an  order  as  stated  in  the  proclamation,  he 
Vol.  II,  a  F 


410  MISCELLANEOUS 

could  not  in  his  judicial  capacity  take  notice  of  it,  as  it  was 
not  authenticated  according  to  law.  This  doctrine  has  been 
illustrated  in  a  modern  instance.  Did  not  the  present  chief 
justice  of  the  King's  Bench  and  his  brethren  refuse  to  take 
judicial  notice  of  Mr.  Wilkes  when  he  surrendered  himself 
in  order  to  the  reversal  of  his  outlawry,  because  he  did  not 
come  properly  authenticated  before  them,  although  I  fancy 
they  had  very  little  doubt  in  their  minds  as  to  the  identity  of 
his  person?  so  upon  the  same  principles  Mr.  Wilkes  was  well 
warranted  in  rejecting  the  proclamation;  and  that  being  out 
of  the  way,  I  think  it  will  then  be  so  clear,  that  Mr.  Wilkes 
would  have  done  right  in  committing  the  assailant  upon  the 
printer,  if  he  had  not  given  bail,  as  not  to  admit  of  an  argu- 
ment. 

I  have  two  observations  to  make  upon  the  late  attempt  of 
enforcing  the  order  of  the  House  of  Commons  by  the  royal 
proclamation.  First,  that  the  calling  in  the  aid  of  the  king 
upon  that  occasion  was  weakening  the  authority  and  dignity 
of  the  house,  and  tends  to  make  the  execution  of  the  orders 
of  that  house  dependent  upon  the  pleasure  of  the  king;  and 
in  the  next  place  such  an  interposition  on  the  part  of  the  king 
carries  this  appearance  with  it  to  the  public,  that  it  is  not  the 
independence  or  the  just  liberties  and  privileges  of  the  com- 
mons of  England  that  are  thus  anxiously  sought  to  be  pre- 
served, but  the  gratification  of  the  spleen  and  resentment  (to 
say  no  worse  of  it)  of  the  administration.  I  shall  conclude 
this  letter  by  saying,  and  thinking  till  I  am  better  informed, 
that  the  late  proclamation  was  an  unwarrantable  exertion  of 
power,  tending  to  mislead  all  judges  and  justices  throughout 
England,  and  to  put  them  upon  imprisoning  an  English  sub- 
ject contrary  to  law,  and  the  rules  of  evidence,  which  make 
part  of  the  law  of  this  kingdom;  and  therefore  I  for  one  ap- 
plaud the  conduct  of  Mr.  Wilkes  in  this  instance.  In  another 
letter  I  shall  deliver  my  sentiments  as  to  the  proceedings  of 
your  lordship,  Mr^ Alderman  Oliver,  and  Mr.  Alderman 
Wilkes,  when  the  messenger  of  the  House  of  Commons  was 
brought  before  you.  I  have  forborn  to  take  this  business  up 
on  the  same  grounds  that  Mr.  Morris  has  done,  as  it  would 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  411 

only  be  a  repetition  of  what  he  has  very  judiciously  before 
transmitted  to  the  public*.  It  is  sufficient  for  me  to  say  that 
I  think  he  has  sufficiently  demonstrated  the  illegality  of  the 
order  of  the  House  of  Commons;  I  only  meant  to  give  ad- 
ditional strength  to  his  observations;  and  if  any  man  will 
coolly  consider  the  whole  case,  argument  will  continually 
crowd  upon  his  mind  to  evince  the  illegality  and  injustice  of 
the  order  and  royal  proclamation. 

I  am, 
My  lord  and  gentlemen, 

Your  most  humble  servant, 

G.  W. 

*  Robert  Morris,  Esq.  was  a  member  of,  and  secretary  to,  the  Bill  of 
Rights  Society.  At  their  meeting  in  order  to  discuss  the  question  of  the 
arrest  of  the  printers,  he  thus  addressed  the  chairman;  and  it  is  to  this 
speech  the  writer  of  the  above  letter  refers. 
"Mr.  Chairman, 

n  The  proclamation  issued  for  apprehending  the  printers  is  on  all  hands, 
I  think,  allowed  to  be  illegal.  I  do  not  believe  that  there  is  in  the  whole 
kingdom  a  lawyer's  clerk,  who  does  not  know  it  to  be  equally  repugnant 
yy  the  spirit  and  letter  of  the  law  and  the  constitution.  The  law,  though 
not  so  well  known,  is  as  clear  against  commitments  by  the  House  of  Com- 
mons.  They  have  nothing  to  support  their  pretensions  but  their  own  vote, 
which  certainly  is  not  binding  on  any  but  themselves;  an  act  of  the  three 
branches  of  the  legislature  being  the  only  authority  that  is,  besides  the 
common  law,  acknowledged  by  England  as  valid.  Matters  being  thus  cir- 
cumstanced, I  am  sorry  to  find  that  such  magistrates  of  London,  as  belong 
to  this  society,  do  not  afford  protection  to  the  printers,  and  rescue  them 
from  lawless  violence.  My  concern  for  this  neglect,  this  fear,  or  this  ter- 
giversation, is  the  greater,  that,  if  the  officers  of  the  House  of  Commons, 
or  any  other  person  but  a  minister  of  this  city  properly  authorised,  takes 
these  obnoxious  men  into  custody,  the  rights  of  the  city  are  violated; 
it  being  legally  impossible  for  king,  lords,  and  commons,  to  seize  any 
citizen  of  London  without  the  consent  of  its  own  magistrates.  Were  they 
even  to  make  an  act  for  that  purpose,  it  could  not  have  any  force;  because 
the  act  made  in  favour  of  the  city,  in  the  reign  of  William  and  Mary,  ought 
to  be  considered  as  a  constitution,  and  as  irreversible  as  Magna  Cham; 
lor  indeed  it  is  the  Magna  Charta  of  the  city."  Epit, 


412  MISCELLANEOUS 


LETTER  XC1V. 

For  the  Public  Advertiser. 

8  April,  1771. 

TO  THE  RIGHT  HON.  THE  LORD  MAYOR  OF  LONDON,  MR.  ALDER- 
MAN OLIVER,  AND  MR.  ALDERMAN  WILKES. 

My  Lord  and  Gentlemek, 

In  my  first  letter  I  submitted  my  reasons  why  Mr.  Wilkes 
could  not  in  his  judicial  capacity  take  notice  of  the  order  of 
the  House  of  Commons,  merely  under  the  sanction  of  the 
royal  proclamation.  If  I  was  right  in  that,  it  was  totally  im- 
material whether  the  order  of  the  House  of  Commons  as  to 
the  printers  was  legal  or  illegal;  for  in  either  case  Mr. 
Wilkes's  conduct  was  agreeable  to  law.  And  in  either  case, 
the  expunging  of  the  proceedings  taken  before  him,  be  it  by 
what  order  it  may,  was  a  flagrant  violation  of  the  law,  and  a 
very  dangerous  obstruction  to  the  execution  of  criminal  jus- 
tice. I  will  next  consider  the  subsequent  proceedings  as  to 
the  messenger  of  the  House  of  Commons,  who  was  brought 
before  you,  as  magistrates  of  the  city  of  London,  and  charged 
upon  oath  with  having  committed  a  breach  of  the  peace,  in 
assaulting  and  imprisoning  one  of  your  citizens.  The  mes- 
senger justified  the  fact  under  a  warrant  signed  by  the 
speaker  of  the  House  of  Commons,  which  I  shall  state  more 
particularly  hereafter,  but  at  present  it  is  not  necessary. 

This  justification  necessarily  brought  the  validity  of  the 
speaker's  warrant  collaterally  in  question  before  you.  Some 
people  who  have  in  general  applauded  your  conduct  in  this 
business,  have  said  that  you  went  too  far  in  signing  a  war- 
rant of  commitment  of  the  messenger,  and  in  obliging  him 
to  give  bail.  As  you  deemed  the  speaker's  warrant  illegal, 
you  could  not  do  otherwise;  it  was  the  necessary  consequence 
and  judgment  upon  the  complaint  before  you.  You  would 
have  been  guilty  of  a  breach  of  duty,  as  magistrates,  if  you 
had  adjudged  the  messenger  guilty  of  a  breach  of  peace,  and 
not  have  committed  him  or  bound  him  over  to  answer  the 
offence  in  a  due  course  of  law.  One  of  the  greatest  privileges 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  413 

assumed  by  either  house  of  parliament,  is  that  of  having 
their  privileges  (as  they  call  them),  examined  and  inquired 
into  in  their  own  houses  only.  And  if  this  can  be  established 
as  the  law  of  England,  any  subject  may  be  deprived  of  his 
life,  liberty  and  property,  by  an  arbitrary  vote  of  either 
house,  under  the  name  of  privilege  of  parliament.  It  will  be 
said  that  this  is  a  foreign  presumption,  and  that  we  cannot 
suppose  that  those  respectable  characters  in  the  houses  of 
parliament  would  invade  the  liberties  of  the  people.  I  must 
own  I  think  from  some  late  exertions,  there  is  no  room  left 
for  presumptions;  but  be  that  as  it  may,  I  think  the  liberties 
of  England  ought  to  stand  upon  a  more  solid  basis  than 
presumptions,  or  the  arbitrary  voice  of  one  branch  of  the 
legislature  only. 

The  cases  to  prove  that  the  assumed  privileges  of  either 
house  of  parliament  are  not  examinable  elsewhere  than  in 
their  own  houses,  are  Lord  Shaftsbury's  case,  29  Car.  2.  in 
B.  R.  The  Queen  v.  Paty  &  alias,  3  Ann.  in  B.  R.  and  the 
Hon.  Alexander  Murray's  case,  24  Geo.  2.  B.  R.  In  all  cases 
adjudged  upon  constitutional  points,  regard  should  be  had  to 
the  temper  of  the  times  when  they  happened,  and  the  cha- 
racters, connections,  and  dependencies  of  the  judges.  If  these 
circumstances  be  attended  to  in  Lord  Shaftsbury's  case,  I 
am  very  sure  it  will  be  found  to  be  a  precedent  of  no  weight 
or  authority.  Lord  Shaftsbury  was  a  man  exceedingly  ob- 
noxious to  King  Charles  the  Second,  having  in  the  House  of 
Lords  violently  opposed  that  arbitrary  prince,  and  his  at- 
tempts to  introduce  popery  info  this  kingdom.  The  king's 
designs  were  no  secret;  and  ffie  independent  members  in  the 
House  of  Commons  had  meditated  means  to  prevent  the  ex- 
ecution of  them.  The  king,  to  frustrate  this,  prorogued  the 
parliament  for  fifteen  months  within  a  few  days,  being  the 
longest  prorogation  which  had  been  then  known.  The  king 
had  also  found  means^  by  pensioning  many  of  the  members 
of  the  lower  housf.,  to  gain  a  considerable  influence  in  it;  and 
the  dissolution  of  parliament  was  then  (as  it  is  now)  a  thing 
earnestly  to  be  sought  for.  Upon  the  meeting  of  the  parlia- 
ment, after  this  long  prorogation,  a  question  was  propounded 


414  MISCELLANEOUS 

in  the  House  of  Lords  by  the  country  party,  whether  it  was 
not  actually  dissolved.  Lord  Shaftsbury,  and  others  of  that 
party,  argued  and  maintained  upon  an  old  statute  of  King 
Edward  the  Third,  then  in  force,  which  directed  that  the 
Icing  should  call  a  parliament  once  a  year,  or  oftener  if  need 
should  be,  that  the  parliament  was  actually  dissolved;  but 
the  court  party  strenuously  opposed  this,  knowing  that  the 
eyes  of  the  people  were  opened,  and  that  a  new  parliament 
would  not  be  favourable  to  the  king's  designs. 

This  question  had  made  a  great  noise  in  the  kingdom,  and 
bv  way  of  silencing  the  people,  the  king's  party  in  the  House 
of  Lords  voted  Lord  Shaftsbury,  Lord  Salisbury,  and  Lord 
Wharton,  who  had  maintained  that  the  parliament  was  dis- 
solved, guilty  of  a  contempt  of  that  house,  and  sent  them  to 
the  Tower;  that  they  were  sent  to  the  Tower  to  gratify  the 
king's  vengeance  is  apparent  from  the  words  of  the  warrant 
©f  commitment,  for  it  directs  them  to  be  kept  in  safe  custody 
during  his  Majesty's  pleasure,  and  the  pleasure  of  the  house, 
for  their  high  contempt  committed  against  that  house.  Lord 
Salisbury  and  Lord  Wharton  submitted  to  the  house,  and 
were  discharged;  Lord  Shaftsbury  at  first  refused  it,  and 
sued  out  his  Habeas  Corpus,  and  was  brought  before  the 
King's  Bench  with  the  warrant  of  his  commitment. 

The  warrant  was  glaringly  illegal  and  unconstitutional, 
and  seems  to  be  admitted  by  all  the  judges  in  that  case  to  be 
so,  particularly  Wylde  Justice  said,  the  return  no  doubt  was 
illegal.  This  was  a  critic  il  case;  in  fact,  it  was  the  king's 
cause,  and  the  judges  to  det  -rmine  it  at  that  time  held  their 
offices  during  the  pleasure  of  the  crown,  so  that  they  were 
reduced  to  an  awkward  dilemma;  however,  they  found 
means  to  extricate  themselves  from  it  by  determining,  that 
though  the  commitment  was  illegal,  they  could  not  examine 
into  it,  and  so  Lord  Shaftsbury  was  remanded;  and  the  three 
puisne  judges  on  the  case  of  the  Queen  v.  Paty  &  alias,  as 
also  the  judges  in  Mr.  Murray's  case,  seem  implicitly  to 
have  followed  the  determination  in  Lord  S'laftsbury's  case, 
and  therefore  if  that  determination  be  overthrown,  the  other 
two  must  sink  of  course.  In  the  case  of  the  Queen  v.  Paty  & 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  415 

alias,  3  Ann.  the  defendants  having  been  committed  to  New- 
gate by  a  warrant  of  the  speaker  of  the  House  of  Commons, 
signed  Robert  Harley,  speaker,  (a  fatal  name  to  liberty), 
were  brought  by  Habeas  Corpus  into  the  Queen's  Bench, 
and  prayed  to  be  discharged  upon  the  illegality  of  the  com- 
mitment. The  three  puisne  judges  refused  to  interfere  upon 
the  authority  of  Lord  Shaftsbury's  case,  and  the  prisoners 
were  remanded,  contrary  to  the  opinion  of  Lord  Chief  Jus- 
tice Holt,  one  of  the  ablest  judges  that  ever  presided  in  that 
court.  He  was  of  opinion,  that  what  the  house  had  called  a 
breach  of  privilege  was  not  a  breach  of  privilege,  nor  could 
their  judgment  make  it  so,  nor  conclude  that  court  from  de- 
termining contrary;  and  he  says,  "  When  the  House  of  Com- 
mons exceed  their  legal  bounds  and  authority,  their  acts  are 
wrongful,  and  cannot  be  justified  more  than  the  acts  of  pri- 
vate men:  that  there  was  no  question  but  their  authority  is 
from  the  law,  and  as  it  is  circumscribed,  so  it  may  be  ex- 
ceeded. To  say  they  are  judges  of  their  own  privilege  and 
their  own  authority,  and  nobody  else,  is  to  make  their  privi- 
leges to  be  as  they  would  have  them.  If  there  be  a  wrongful 
imprisonment  by  the  House  of  Commons,  what  court  shall 
deliver  the  party?  Shall  we  say  there  is  no  redress;  and  that 
we  are  not  able  to  execute  those  laws  upon  which  the  liberty 
of  the  queen's  people  subsists?  To  conclude,  all  courts  are  so 
far  judges  of  their  own  privileges,  and  entrusted  with  a 
power  to  vindicate  themselves,  that  they  may  punish  for  con- 
tempts; but  to  make  them,  or  any  court,  final  judges  of  them> 
exclusive  of  every  body  else,  is  to  introduce  a  state  of  con- 
fusion, by  making  every  man  judge  in  his  own  cause,  and 
subverting  the  measures  of  all  jurisdictions."  What  says 
another  learned  lawyer,  Mr.  Serjeant  Hawkins,  in  his  Pleas 
of  the  Crown,  p.  1 10? — In  commenting  upon  Lord  Shaftsbu- 
ry's  case,  he  says,  "  But  if  it  be  demanded  in  case  a  subject 
should  be  committed  by  either  of  those  houses  for  a  matter 
manifestly  out  of  their  jurisdiction,  what  remedy  can  he 
have?  I  answer,  that  it  cannot  well  be  imagined  that  the  law, 
which  favours  nothing  more  than  the  liberty  of  the  subject, 
should  give  us  a  remedy  against  commitments  by  the  king 


416  MISCELLANEOUS 

himself  appearing  to  be  illegal,  and  yet  give  us  no  manner  of 
redress  against  a  commitment  by  our  fellow  subjects  equally 
appearing  to  be  unwarranted."  To  this  I  may  add  the  dictum 
of  the  present  speaker  of  the  House  of  Commons  when  coun- 
sel*, who  is  reported  to  have  said,  that  had  he  the  honour  to 
preside  in  any  court  of  justice,  he  should  no  more  regard 
the  resolutions  of  that  house  than  the  resolutions  of  a  set  of 
drunken  porters.  Some  apology  may  be  made  for  the  judges 
in  the  case  of  the  Queen  v.  Paty  &  alias.  They  might  con- 
nive at  a  stretch  of  power  in  the  House  of  Commons  for  fear 
of  weakening  the  dignity  and  independence  of  the  house: 
and  if  ever  that  can  be  justifiable,  it  was  so  then,  because  the 
house  was  truly  honourable  and  independent;  for  no  place- 
man or  pensioner  was  then  capable  of  sitting  in  that  house. 
Very  different  is  it  at  this  time:  the  house  swarms  with 
placemen  and  pensioners,  and  the  people  want  a  barrier  to 
guard  them  from  the  invasions  of  their  own  representatives. 
But  if  such  a  dangerous  position  is  to  be  established  as 
that,  though  the  order  of  the  house  be  apparently  illegal,  no 
court  or  magistrate  can  give  redress,  a  door  will  be  opened 
through  the  House  of  Commons  to  elude  all  those  excellent 
laws  which  our  ancestors  have  procured  for  the  preservation 
of  our  liberties,  and  to  overturn  the  fundamental  principles 
of  the  constitution.  But  let  us  hope  that  by  such  weak  au- 
thorities as  the  three  cases  cited,  the  liberties  of  England 
are  not  to  be  determined.  In  another  letter  I  will  trouble 
you  with  my  sentiments  upon  the  privileges  of  the  House  of 
Commons,  and  the  warrant  of  commitment-}-. 

I  am, 
My  lord  and  gentlemen, 

Your  most  humble  servant, 

G.  W. 

"  Sir  Fletcher  Norton.  Edit. 

f  This  promised  letter  did  not  appear,  though  the  same  suhject  is  pur- 
sued in  the  following  letter,  as  well  as  under  the  more  dignified  signature 
of  Junius,  and  occurs  in  the  letters  with  this  subscription  No.  xliv.  date. 
22  April,  1771. 

To  the  arguments  and  opinions  both  there  and  here  cited  upon  the  au- 
thority of  royal  proclamations,  and  powers  or  privileges  of  parliament, 

the 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  4J.7 


LETTER  XCV. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  9  April,  1771. 

The  arguments  used  in  defence  of  the  late  proceedings 
of  the  House  of  Commons  would  have  a  considerable  weight 
with  me,  if  I  could  persuade  myself  that  the  present  House 
of  Commons  were  really  in  that  independent  state  in  which 
the  constitution  meant  to  place  them.  If  I  could  be  satisfied 
that  their  resolutions  were  not  previously  determined  in  the 
king's  cabinet,  that  no  personal  resentment  was  to  be  grati- 
fied, nor  any  ministerial  purpose  to  be  answered,  under  pre- 
tence of  asserting  their  privileges,  I  own  I  should  be  very 
unwilling  to  raise  or  encourage  any  question  between  the 
strict  right  of  the  subject,  and  that  discretionary  power 
which  our  representatives  have  assumed  by  degrees,  and 

the  editor  will,  on  this  occasion,  take  the  liberty  of  adding  the  following 
decision  on  the  same  point  by  that  great  and  constitutional  judge,  Lord 
Chief  Justice  Holt. 

"  In  the  reign  of  Queen  Anne,  in  1704,  several  freemen  of  the  borough 
of  Aylesbury  had  been  refused  the  liberty  of  voting  at  an  election  for  a 
member  of  parliament,  though  they  proved  their  qualifications  as  such: 
the  law  in  this  case  imposes  a  fine  on  the  returning  officer  of  100/.  for 
every  such  offence.  On  this  principle  they  applied  to  Lord  Chief  Justice 
Holt,  who  desired  the  officer  to  be  arrested.  The  House  of  Commons, 
alarmed  at  this  step,  made  an  order  of  their  house  to  make  it  penal  for 
either  judge,  counsel,  or  attorney,  to  assist  at  the  trial;  however,  the  lord 
chief  justice,  and  several  lawyers,  were  hardv  enough  to  oppose  this  or- 
der, and  brought  it  on  in  the  King's  Bench.  The  house,  highly  irritated 
at  this  contempt  of  their  orders,  sent  a  serjeant  at  arms  for  the  judge  to 
appear  before  them;  but  that  resolute  defender  of  the  laws  bade  him,  with 
a  voice  of  authority,  begone;  on  which  they  sent  a  second  message  by  their 
speaker,  attended  by  as  many  members  as  espoused  the  measure.  After 
the  speaker  had  delivered  his  message,  his  lordship  replied  to  him  in 
these  remarkable  words:  "  Go  back  to  your  chair,  Mr.  Speaker,  within 
these  five  minutes,  or  you  may  depend  on't  I'll  send  you  to  Newgate:  you 
speak  of  your  authority,  but  I  tell  you  I  sit  here  as  an  interpreter  of  the 
laws,  and  a  distributor  of  justice,  and,  were  the  whole  House  of  Com- 
mons in  your  belly,  I  will  not  stir  one  foot."  The  speaker  was  prudent 
enough  to  retire,  and  the  house  were  equally  prudent  to  let  the  affair 
drop."   Edit. 

Vol.  II.  3  G 


418  MISCELLANEOUS 

which,  until  of  late  years,  they  have  very  seldom  abused* 
While  the  House  of  Commons  form  a  real  representation  of 
the  people,  while  they  preserve  their  place  in  the  constitu- 
tion, distinct  from  the  lords,  and  independent  of  the  crown, 
I  think  to  contend  with  them  about  the  limits  of  their  privi- 
leges would  be  contending  with  ourselves*.  But  the  ques- 
tion will  be  materially  altered,  if  it  should  appear  that  instead 
of  preserving  the  due  balance  of  the  constitution,  they  have 
thrown  their  whole  weight  into  the  same  scale  with  the 
crown,  and  that  their  privileges,  instead  of  forming  a  bar- 
rier against  the  encroachments  of  the  other  branches  of  the 
legislature,  are  made  subservient  to  the  views  of  the  sove- 
reign, and  employed,  under  the  direction  of  the  minister,  in 
the  persecution  of  individuals,  and  the  oppression  of  the 
people.  In  this  case  it  would  be  the  duty  of  every  honest 
man  to  stand  strictly  to  his  right; — to  question  every  act  of 
such  an  House  of  Commons  with  jealousy  and  suspicion, 
and  wherever  their  pretended  privileges  trenched  upon  the 
known  laws  of  the  land,  in  the  minutest  instance,  to  resist 
them  with  a  determined  and  scrupulous  exactness.  To 
ascertain  the  fact,  we  need  only  consider  in  what  manner 
parliaments  have  been  managed  since  his  Majesty's  acces- 
sion. 

He  found  this  country  in  that  state  of  perfect  union  and 
happiness  which  good  government  naturally  produces,  and 
which  a  bad  one  has  destroyed.  He  promised  to  abolish  all 
distinctions  of  party,  and  kept  his  word  by  declaring  Lord 
Bute  his  favourite  and  minister,  by  proscribing  the  whole 
Whig  interest  of  England,  and  by  filling  every  place  of  trust 
and  profit  under  his  government  with  professed  Tories,  no- 

*  The  necessity  of  securing  the  House  of  Commons  against  the  king's 
power,  so  that  no  interruption  might  be  given  either  to  the  attendance  of  the 
members  in  parliament,  or  to  the  freedom  of  debate,  was  the  foundation 
of  parliamentary  privilege;  and  we  may  observe  in  all  the  addresses  of 
new  appointed  speakers  to  the  sovereign,  the  utmost  privilege  they  de- 
mand is  liberty  of  speech  and  freedom  from  arrests.  The  very  word  privilege 
means  no  more  than  immunity,  or  a  safeguard  to  the  party  who  possesses 
it,  and  can  never  be  construed  into  an  active  power  of  invading  the  rights 
of  others. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  419 

torious  Jacobites,  and  Scotchmen  of  all  denominations.  He 
abolished  no  distinctions  but  those  which  are  essential  to  the 
safety  of  the  constitution.  King,  lords,  and  commons,  which 
should  for  ever  stand  clear  of  each  other,  were  soon  melted 
down  into  one  common  mass  of  power,  while  equal  care  was 
taken  to  draw  a  line  of  separation  between  the  legislature 
and  the  people,  and  more  particularly  between  the  represen- 
tative and  the  constituent  body  of  the  commons.  The  lower 
house  distinguished  themselves  by  an  eager  compliance  with 
every  measure  that  could  be  supposed  to  gratify  the  king 
personally,  or  to  humour  the  vindictive  passions  of  his  royal 
mother.  [When  Mr.  Wilkes  was  to  be  punished  they  made 
no  scruple  about  the  privileges  of  parliament;  and  although 
it  was  as  well  known  as  any  matter  of  public  record  and  un- 
interrupted custom  could  be,  that  the  members  of  either 
house  are  privileged,  except  in  case  of  treason,  felony,  or 
breach  of  the  peace,  they  declared  without  hesitation  that 
privilege  of  parliament  did  not  extend  to  the  case  of  a  sedi- 
tious libel;  and  undoubtedly  they  would  have  done  the  same 
if  Mr.  Wilkes  had  been  prosecuted  tor  any  other  misde- 
meanor whatsoever.]  It  was  upon  that  occasion  that  Sir 
Fletcher  Norton,  the  patron  of  privilege,  declared  in  the 
house,  that,  if  he  were  a  judge  in  Westminster-hall,  he 
should  regard  a  vote  of  the  House  of  Commons  no  more 
than  a  resolution  of  a  company  of  drunken  porters. — To 
shew  us  his  politeness,  he  preserves  his  style; — to  shew  us 
his  morality,  he  changes  his  opinion. 

The  House  of  Lords  have  not  been  less  pliant  in  surren- 
dering the  rights  of  the  peerage,  whenever  it  has  suited  the 
purposes  of  the  cabinet.  They  joined  heartily  in  the  vote 
above  mentioned,  and  when  they  were  called  upon  to  support 
that  enormous  violation  of  all  law,  truth,  and  reason,  which 
was  perpetrated  by  the  House  of  Commons  in  the  case  of 
the  Middlesex  election,  they  gave  up  that  reciprocal  check 
and  controul  by  which  the  balance  between  the  three  estates 
can  alone  be  preserved,  and  were  content  to  bury  their  own 
privileges  under  the  ruins  of  the  constitution. — The  influ- 
ence of  the  crown  over  the  resolutions  of  both  houses  con- 


420  MISCELLANEOUS 

tinues  to  operate  with  equal  force,  though  now  it  assumes  a 
different  appearance.  The  liberty  of  the  press,  besides  giving 
a  daily  personal  offence  to  the  Princess  of  Wales,  must 
always  be  formidable,  therefore  always  odious  to  such  a 
government  as  the  present.  Prosecutions  had  been  attempt- 
ed without  success.  The  privilege  of  parliament  which  had 
been  so  shamefully  surrendered  to  answer  one  ministerial 
purpose,  must  now  be  as  violently  asserted  to  answer  ano- 
ther. [The  ministry  are  of  a  sudden  grown  wonderfully 
careful  of  privileges  which  their  predecessors  were  as  ready 
to  invade.  The  known  laws  of  the  land,  the  rights  of  the 
subject,  the  sanctity  of  charters,  and  the  reverence  due  to 
our  magistrates,  must  all  give  way,  without  question  or  re- 
sistance, to  a  privilege  of  which  no  man  knows  either  the 
origin  or  the  extent.  The  House  of  Commons  judge  of  their 
own  privileges  without  appeal: — they  may  take  offence  at 
the  most  innocent  action,  and  imprison  the  person,  who 
offends  them,  during  their  arbitrary  will  and  pleasure.  The 
party  has  no  remedy; — he  cannot  appeal  from  their  jurisdic- 
tion; and  if  he  questions  the  privilege,  which  he  is  supposed 
to  have  violated,  it  becomes  an  aggravation  of  his  offence. 
Surely,  Sir,  this  doctrine  is  not  to  be  found  in  Magna 
Charta.  If  it  be  admitted  without  limitation,  I  affirm  that 
there  is  neither  law  nor  liberty  in  this  kingdom.  We  are  the 
slaves  of  the  House  of  Commons,  and,  through  them,  we 
are  the  slaves  of  the  king  and  his  ministers.] 

The  mode  in  which  the  house  have  proceeded  against  the 
city  magistrates  can  neither  be  reconciled  to  natural  justice, 
nor  even  to  the  common  forms  of  decency. — They  begin 
with  shutting  their  doors  against  all  strangers,  the  usual 
name  by  which  they  describe  their  constituents.  Some  of 
their  debates  appear  in  the  public  papers.  The  offence,  if 
any,  is  certainly  not  a  new  one.  We  have  the  debates  as 
regularly  preserved  as  the  journals  of  parliament*;  nor  can 
there  be  any  honest  reason  for  concealing  them.  Mr.  Ons- 

*  Grey's  Collection  of  Debates,  in  ten  volumes,  was  published  under  the 
direction  of  the  late  Arthur  Onslow,  Esq. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  421 

low  however  thinks  it  necessary  to  persecute  the  press, 
and  the  House  of  Commons  is  mean  enough  to  take  part  in 
his  caprices.  Lord  North,  who  had  so  lately  rewarded  the 
Reverend  Mr.  Scot  with  the  best  living  in  the  king's  gift 
for  heaping  invectives  equally  dull  and  virulent  upon  some 
of  the  most  respectable  characters  in  the  kingdom,  is  now 
shameless  enough  to  support  a  motion  against  the  liberty  of 
the  press  with  the  whole  influence  of  the  crown.  [That  their 
practice  might  be  every  way  conformable  to  their  principles, 
the  house  proceeded  to  advise  the  crown  to  publish  a  procla- 
mation universally  acknowledged  to  be  illegal.  Mr.  More- 
ton  publicly  protested  against  it  before  it  was  issued;  and 
Lord  Mansfield,  though  not  scrupulous  to  an  extreme, 
speaks  of  it  with  horror.  It  is  remarkable  enough  that  the 
very  men  who  advised  the  proclamation,  and  who  hear  it 
arraigned  every  day  both  within  doors  and  without,  arc  not 
daring  enough  to  utter  one  word  in  its  defence,  nor  have 
they  ventured  to  take  the  least  notice  of  Mr.  Wilkes  for 
discharging  the  persons  apprehended  under  it.] 

The  pretended  trial  of  the  lord  mayor  and  Mr.  Oliver 
resembled  the  dark  business  of  a  Spanish  inquisition,  rather 
than  the  fair  proceedings  of  an  English  court  of  judicature. 
These  gentlemen  as  magistrates  had  nothing  to  regard  but 
the  obligation  of  their  oaths,  and  the  execution  of  the  laws. 
If  they  were  convinced  that  the  speaker's  warrant  was  not  a 
legal  authority  to  the  messenger,  it  necessarily  followed  that,, 
when  he  was  charged  upon  oath  with  a  breach  of  the  peace, 
they  must  hold  him  to  bail.  They  had  no  option.  Yet  how 
have  they  been  treated?  Their  judges  had  been  partially 
summoned  by  treasury  mandates  pressing  attendance,  and 
demanding  a  vote  of  condemnation.  They  were  tried  and 
condemned  at  midnight,  without  being  heard  by  themselves 
or  their  counsel  on  the  only  point  on  which  their  justifica« 
tion  could  possibly  depend. — In  short,  Sir,  a  question, 
strictly  of  jurisdiction,  was  referred  to  numbers,  and  carried 
like  a  common  ministerial  measure.  Their  next  step  was  to 
force  the  lord  mayor's  clerk,  by  the  terror  of  a  prison,  to 


422  MISCELLANEOUS 

erase  the  record  of  a  judicial  proceeding,  held  regularly  be- 
fore the  chief  magistrate  of  the  city.  Lord  North  himself 
made  the  motion,  and  declared  that  the  constitution  could 
not  be  safe,  until  it  was  carried  into  effect.  They  then  re- 
solved that  all  prosecutions  for  the  assault  (which,  though 
charged  upon  oath,  they  call  a  pretended  one)  should  be 
stopped.  I  wish  that  grave  and  sober  men  would  consider, 
independently  of  the  other  questions  before  us,  how  far  this 
particular  precedent  may  extend.  If  the  House  of  Commons 
may  interpose,  in  a  single  instance,  between  the  subject,  who 
complains,  and  the  laws,  which  ought  to  protect,  I  see  no 
reason  why  they  may  not,  at  any  time,  by  their  vote,  stop 
the  whole  course  of  justice  through  the  kingdom.  Besides 
the  injury  done  to  the  subject,  their  granting  a  noli  prosequi 
is  in  effect  an  incroachment  upon  the  royal  prerogative*. 

Many  circumstances  of  insult  have  been  mixed  with  these 
measures  of  violence. — Their  pretended  lenity  to  the  lord 
mayor,  which  he  nobly  refused  to  accept  of,  amounted  only 
to  an  offer  of  the  garrets  of  the  house  for  the  place  of  his 
confinement  instead  of  the  Tower;  and,  though  it  be  of  less 
moment,  it  is  still  worth  observing,  that  the  indignity  offered 
to  the  city  is  aggravated  by  the  time  expressly  chosen  for 
imprisoning  their  chief  magistrate.  Not  content  with  inter- 
rupting all  city  business,  they  fixed  upon  Easter,  because  it 
is  the  chief  city  festival,  and  found  a  contemptible  gratifica- 
tion in  putting  a  stop  to  the  amusements  usual  at  this  season, , 
and  depriving  a  public  charity  of  the  customary  collections, 

*  The  following  is  a  copy  of  the  minutes  of  the  House  of  Commons,  of 
March  20,  1771,  here  referred  to. 

That  James  Morgan,  clerk  of  the  lord  mayor,  do  at  the  table  expunge 
the  minutes  taken  before  the  lord  mayor,  relative  to  the  messenger  of  this 
house,  giving  security  for  his  appearance  at  the  next  general  quarter  ses- 
sions of  the  peace;  and  he  accordingly  at  the  table  expunged  the  same. 
Motion  made,  and  question  proposed, 

That  no  other  prosecution,  suit,  or  proceeding,  be  commenced,  or  car- 
ried on  for,  or  on  account  of  the  said  pretended  assault,  or  false  imprison- 
ment. 

It  passed  in  the  affirmative.  Edit. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  423 

which  they  knew  must  be  reduced  to  nothing  by  the  absence 
of  the  lord  mayor. 

Nothing  remained  but  to  keep  up  a  terror  and  alarm 
through  the  kingdom  by  appointing  committees  of  inquiry. 
This  double  star  chamber  was  moved  for  long  after  mid- 
night, and  lists  partially  sent  round  by  the  messengers  of  the 
treasury. — Where  will  these  arbitrary,  iniquitous  proceed- 
ings end?  The  ministry,  I  doubt  not,  have  a  plan  prepared, 
but  it  is  such  a  one,  as  they  neither  dare  openly  avow,  nor  uni- 
formly adhere  to.  One  day  they  appoint  committees  of  in- 
quisition to  sit  de  die  in  diem; — the  next  thing  we  hear  is 
that  the  committees  are  adjourned,  and  the  members  of  them 
dispersed  into  the  country — After  advising  the  king,  very 
unnecessarily,  to  go  to  parliament,  they  come  to  him,  while 
his  equipage  is  in  waiting,  contradict  their  own  advice,  and 
endeavour  to  stagger  his  resolution,  at  the  moment  when 
he  has  most  occasion  for  it.  They  alone  are  answerable  for 
all  the  indignities  heaped  upon  the  king's  person,  since  they 
could  not  but  foresee,  that  the  people  would  take  the  earliest 
opportunity  of  resenting  the  imprisonment  of  their  magis- 
trates. 

When  the  Princess  of  Wales  was  named  in  the  House  of 
Commons,  where  was  that  zeal,  which  some  people  boast  of, 
for  their  royal  master?  The  mother  of  their  sovereign  was 
branded  by  name,  as  the  authoress  of  all  our  calamities,  and 
the  assertion  passed  without  censure  or  contradiction. 

Sir,  I  most  truly  lament  the  condition,  to  which  we  are 
reduced;  and  the  more  so,  because  there  is  but  one  remedy 
for  it,  and  that  remedy  has  been  repeatedly  refused. — A 
dissolution  of  the  parliament  would  restore  tranquillity  to 
the  people,  and  to  the  king  the  affections  of  his  subjects:  the 
present  House  of  Commons  have  nothing  to  expect  but  con- 
tempt, detestation,  and  resistance.  This  violent  state  of 
things  cannot  iong  continue.  Either  the  laws  and  constitu- 
tion must  be  preserved  by  a  dreadful  appeal  to  the  sword;  or 
(what  probably  is  intended  by  the  present  system  of  mea- 
sures), the  people  will  grow  weary  of  their  condition,  and 
surrender  every  thing  into  the  king's  hands,  rather  than  sub- 


424  MISCELLANEOUS  ' 

mit  to  be  trampled  upon  any  longer  by  five  hundred  of  their 
equals.  A  WHIG*. 

*  The  passages  in  this  letter  which  are  placed  within  brackets,  are  re- 
transcribed  by  the  author,  and  added  as  notes  to  his  letter  xliv.  published 
in  his  own  edition  under  the  signature  of  Junius;  where  the  reader  will 
still  find  them. 

The  messengers  were  indicted  in  defiance  of  the  resolutions  of  the 
House  of  Commons,  and  true  bills  were  found  against  them,  but  further 
proceedings  were  stopped  by  the  attorney-general  entering  a  noli  prosequi. 
As  the  arguments  urged  by  Mr.  Adair,  who  was  of  counsel  for  the  prin- 
ters, on  shewing  cause  against  this  measure,  are  extremely  curious,  and 
not  generally  known,  we  shall  subjoin  them  for  the  information  of  the 
reader,  and  for  the  better  elucidation  of  this  and  other  letters  upon  the 
subject  of  this  important  dispute. 

Mr.  Adair,  in  pursuance  of  notice,  attended  the  attorney-general,  Mr. 
De  Grey,  on  the  17th  of  May,  1771,  and  after  the  indictment  and  an  affi- 
davit of  the  defendant  had  been  read,  spoke  as  follows: — 

"  It  requires  no  arguments  to  shew,  that  though  the  entering  a  noli  pro* 
seqiti  on  prosecutions  at  the  suit  of  the  king  only,  is  an  undoubted  prero- 
gative of  the  crown;  yet  like  all  other  prerogatives,  it  is  intended  for  the 
general  good  of  the  subject,  and  not  for  the  hindrance  or  interruption  of 
public  justice. 

"  It  is  indeed  a  discretionary  power,  but  it  is  to  be  exercised  not  ac- 
cording to  an  arbitrary  but  a  sound  and  legal  discretion.  It  is  for  this  rea- 
son, Sir,  that  it  is  not  left  to  the  wanton  caprice  of  a  favourite,  or  the  ar- 
bitrary will  of  a  minister,  to  be  executed  at  pleasure,  but  it  is  deposited 
as  a  public  trust  in  the  hands  of  the  attorney-general,  that  the  exercise 
of  it  may  be  directed  by  his  knowledge  of  the  laws  and  constitution  of 
the  kingdom. 

"  Many  reasons  may  be  suggested  why  this  power  should  be  most 
sparingly  exercised  in  cases  of  prosecution  by  indictment. 

"  Though  the  king's  name  is  necessarily  used  as  the  general  guardian 
of  the  laws,  there  is  another  party  concerned  in  indictments,  the  injured 
party,  who  is  for  the  most  part  the  real,  as  the  king  is  the  nominal  pro- 
secutor. 

"  The  practice  too  of  entering  a  noli  prosequi  on  indictments  is  but  of 
modern  date. 

"  In  the  case  of  Goddard  and  Smith  in  the  6th  IUod.  262,  Holt,  chief 
justice,  said,  '  He  had  known  it  thought  very  hard  that  the  attorney-ge- 
neneral  should  enter  noli  prosequi  upon  indictments,  and  that  it  began  first 
to  be  practised  in  the  latter  end  of  King  Charles  the  Second's  reign,'  and 
he  ordered  precedents  to  be  searched,  if  any  were,  in  Mr.  Attorney  Pal- 
mer of  Nottingham's  time;  and  at  another  day  he  declared,  that  in  all 
King  Charles  the  First's  time  there  was  no  precedent  of  a  noli  prosequi  on 
an  indictment. 

"  I  therefore  submit  to  you,  that  (sitting  here  to  determine  upon  the 

application 


5.ETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  425 


LETTER  XCVI. 

For  the  Public  Advertiser. 

15  April,  1771. 
to  the  earl  of  suffolk. 
My  Lord, 
The  singularity  of  your  late  conduct  seemed  to  claim 
some  attention  from  the  public,  which  you  do  not,  I  pre- 

application  of  a  power  so  recent  in  its  commencement,  and  of  which  we 
are  told  by  so  respectable  an  authority,  that  it  has  been  looked  upon  as  a 
hardship  in  itself),  you  will  require  the  most  cogent  reasons  to  induce 
you  to  exert  it  upon  this  or  any  other  occasion. 

"  Those  reasons  must  arise  either  from  the  conduct  of  the  prosecutor, 
the  personal  situation  and  circumstance  of  the  defendant,  or  the  subject 
matter  of  the  prosecution. 

"  I  do  not  find  from  the  affidavit  of  the  defendant,  which  is  the  only 
information  I  have  had  of  the  grounds  of  his  application  to  you,  that  he 
complains  of  any  particular  hardship  or  oppression,  arising  either  from 
unnecessary  delay,  unusual  rigour,  or  any  other  misconduct  in  the  prose- 
cutor:  he  must  therefore  expect  the  extraordinary  interposition  of  the 
prerogative  in  his  behalf  in  this  instance  either  from  something  peculiarly 
favourable  in  his  personal  situation,  which  entitles  him  to  the  protection 
of  the  crown,  or  from  the  charge  against  him  being  totally  groundless  and 
unfit  to  be  discussed  in  a  court  of  justice. 

"  As  to  the  first  of  these  points,  if  we  consider  Mr.  Whittam  not  being 
a  magistrate's  constable,  or  any  other  officer  intrusted  with  the  execution 
of  the  laws,  but  acting  merely  in  a  private  capacity,  as  wantonly  assaulting 
one  of  the  king's  subjects,  in  his  own  house,  who  was  not  even  accused 
of  any  crime,  and  violently  attempting  to  deprive  him  of  his  liberty;  if  I 
say  we  consider  him  in  this  point  of  view,  he  can  hardly  be  thought  a  fit 
object  of  the  royal  favour  and  protection:  but  if  we  view  him  in  the  light 
in  which  he  has  thought  proper  to  place  himself  by  his  own  affidavit,  he 
will  be  found,  if  possible,  still  less  entitled  to  that  exertion  of  prerogative 
for  which  he  has  applied.  He  tells  you,  Sir,  that  he  is  a  messenger  of  the 
House  of  Commons,  that  in  that  character,  and  acting  under  the  express 
orders  and  authority  of  that  house,  he  did  the  fact  with  which  he  is 
charged  in  the  indictment.  Does  he  mean,  Sir,  that  you  should  consider 
this  as  a  reason  for  granting  a  noli  prosequi?  When  was  it  heard  before 
that  an  exertion  of  prerogative  was  necessary'  to  support  the  authority 
and  privileges  of  the  House  of  Commons?  When  was  that  house  knowa 
to  sue  to  the  servants  of  the  crown  to  screen  their  officers  from  the  laws, 
or  protect  them  from  the  indignation  of  an  inconsiderable  printer? 

u  I  believe  when  any  of  their  privileges  have  been  really  invaded,  they 

have 

Vol,  IL  3  H 


426  MISCELLANEOUS 

sume,  think  you  have  entirely  escaped:  but  since  by  their 
silence  they  either  think  you  superior  to  shame,  or  below  the 

have  never  been  found  wanting  either  in  power  or  inclination  to  support 
them:  and  I  am  satisfied  that  if  the  house  were  now  sitting1,  Mr.  Whit- 
tam  would  not  have  dared  to  make  an  application  so  manifestly  tending  to 
expose  their  privileges  and  authority  to  ridicule  and  contempt.  But,  Sir, 
I  am  persuaded  that  the  honour  and  dignity  of  the  House  of  Commons 
are  safe  in  your  hands,  and  that  you  will  suffer  no  act  to  proceed  from  you 
that  can  throw  even  an  oblique  imputation  upon  them. 

"  If  there  is  for  these  reasons  nothing  in  Mr.  Whittam's  personal  situa- 
tion, or  circumstances,  which  can  entitle  him  to  an  extraordinary  interpo- 
sition in  his  favour,  it  remains  only  to  be  considered  whether  any  motive 
can  be  suggested  from  the  subject-matter  of  the  prosecution  to  induce 
you  to  put  a  stop  to  it  by  an  exertion  of  the  royal  prerogative. 

"  The  charge  set  forth  in  the  indictment,  and  not  denied  by  the  defen- 
dant's affidavit,  is  for  assaulting  and  imprisoning  the  prosecutor,  Mr.  Mil- 
ler. It  will  not  be  contended  that  there  appears  any  thing  upon  the  face 
of  the  indictment  oppressive,  illegal,  unfit  to  come  before  a  court  of  justice, 
or  which  affords  any  motive  whatsoever  for  granting  the  noli  prosequi;  the 
reason,  therefore,  if  any,  must  arise  from  the  matters  set  forth  by  the  de- 
fendant's affidavit.  The  affidavit  states,  that  the  defendant  is  one  of  the 
messengers  of  the  House  of  Commons;  that  the  speaker's  warrant  for  ap- 
prehending the  prosecutor  was  issued  by  order  of  the  house,  and  that  in 
consequence  thereof,  the  defendant,  to  whom  the  warrant  was  delivered, 
did  make  the  arrest  with  which  he  is  charged  in  the  indictment,  and  that 
he  used  no  violence  in  so  doing  other  than  seizing  Mr.  Miller  by  the  arm 
as  is  usual  in  arrests. 

"  1  apprehend  it  is  not  incumbent  upon  me  here  to  consider,  as  I  sub- 
mit it  is  not  competent  for  you,  Sir,  to  determine  in  this  summary  man- 
ner, whether  the  matters  here  set  forth  door  do  not  amount  to  a  good  de- 
fence or  legal  justification.  We  are  not  now  to  try  the  cause;  but  you, 
Sir,  I  am  confident,  will  not  interpose  the  prerogative  of  the  king  to  pre- 
vent our  trying  it  in  the  regular  course  before  the  proper  jurisdiction, 
unless  the  prosecution  as  it  now  appears  before  you,  is  so  clearly  and 
manifestly  groundless,  and  unfit  for  discussion  in  a  court  of  law,  that  it 
would  be  an  abuse  and  mockery  of  public  justice  to  bring  it  to  a  trial.  If 
the  authority  under  which  Mr.  Whittam  alleges  himself  to  have  acted 
was  not  competent  to  authorise  the  fact  which  he  committed,  or  if  that 
authority  never  was  in  tact  delegated  to  him,  in  either  of  those  cases  the 
prosecution  is  well  founded  in  law.  If  any  doubt  or  question  can  be  raised 
on  either  of  these  points,  it  is  not  so  clearly  groundless  as  to  justify  the 
putting  a  stop  to  it  by  prerogative  before  those  questions  arc  legally  de- 
termined. 

"  It  might  well  be  questioned,  whether  the  House  of  Commons  has  any 
power  by  the  laws  or  constitution  of  this  kingdom  to  authorize  the  issu- 
ing 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  407 

dignity  of  revenge,  I  cannot  help  giving  to  them  what  I  owe 
on  this  occasion,  which,  had  I  only  considered  the  gratify- 
ing of  such  a  warrant  as  that  under  colour  of  which  Mr.  Miller  was  ap- 
prehended. 

"  It  might  be  said,  and  supported  too  by  the  greatest  authorities,  that 
they  cannot  by  any  act  of  theirs  singly,  create  any  new  power  or  privilege 
to  themselves.  That  there  was  a  time  when  they  evidently  neither  pos- 
sessed nor  claimed  any  such  power  as  that  in  question;  and  when  the  au- 
thority of  an  act  of  parliament  was  thought  necessary  to  punish  even  so 
undeniable  a  breach  of  privilege,  as  the  assaulting  the  person  of  a  mem- 
ber attending  upon  his  duty  in  parliament.  The  statute,  Sir,  which  I  here 
allude  to,  is  the  11th  of  H.  VI.  c.  11.  which  was  made  to  extend  the  pro- 
visions of  5th  H.  IV.  c.  6.  for  punishment  of  assaults  on  the  servants  of 
members  of  parliament  when  attending  on  their  masters  in  their  duty,  to 
the  persons  of  the  members  themselves.  It  might  be  urged,  that  the 
power  in  question  has  never  been  given  them  by  any  act  of  parliament, 
and  that  if  there  ever  was  a  time  when  they  did  not  possess  it,  they  can 
by  no  other  means  have  legally  acquired  it.  All  this  and  much  more 
might  be  said,  if  it  were  necessary  to  dispute  the  authority  of  the  House 
of  Commons  to  issue  the  warrant  for  the  commitment  of  Mr.  Miller;  but 
it  is  sufficient  for  me  at  present  to  contend,  that  whether  they  had,  or  had 
not  the  power,  they  never  did  in  fact  give  the  defendant  any  authority 
whatsoever  to  make  the  arrest  in  question. 

"  The  warrant,  Sir,  under  colour  of  which  Mr.  Whittam  acted,  is  a 
warrant  purporting  to  be  issued  in  pursuance  of  an  order  of  the  House  of 
Commons,  and  signed  Fletcher  Norton,  speaker.  But,  Sir,  the  order  of 
the  house,  as  it  is  recited  in  the  warrant  itself,  is  for  taking  Mr.  Miller 
into  the  custody  of  the  serjeant  at  arms,  or  his  deputy;  and  Mr.  Whittam 
is  described  in  the  direction  of  the  very  same  warrant  to  be  neither  the 
one  nor  the  other  of  these.  No  authority  whatsoever  can  be  conveyed  to 
Mr.  Whittam  by  virtue  of  an  order,  in  which  he  is  not  named,  and  which 
particularly  points  out  certain  persons,  in  contradiction  from  all  others. 
This  warrant,  therefore  (so  far  as  it  relates  to  Mr.  Whittam),  appears  to 
be  issued  by  the  speaker,  merely  of  his  own  authority,  unauthorized  by 
any  order  of  the  House  of  Commons.  Has  the  speaker  any  power  to  com- 
mit, unless  he  derives  it  from  the  orders  of  the  house?  If  he  has  not, 
which  must  be  granted,  he  is  bound  strictly  and  literally  to  pursue  that 
order  which  creates  his  authority:  as  far  as  he  exceeds  it,  he  acts  without 
authority  himself,  and  most  clearly  can  convey  none  to  any  other  person. 
Mr.  Whittam,  therefore,  in  this  case,  acting  without  any  legal  authority 
whatever,  in  the  arrest  of  the  prosecutor,  a  prosecution  grounded  upon 
that  cannot  be  considered  as  totally  void  of  foundation.  But  supposing  for 
a  moment  that  the  prosecution  was  frivolous  and  ill-grounded,  I  submit 
that  that  alone  would  not  be  a  reason  for  the  extraordinary  interposition  of 
the  crown.  If  it  would  in  this  case,  it  must  in  every  other;  every  de- 
fendant who  fancied  himself  unjustly  prosecuted  would  apply  for  protec- 
tion 


428  MISCELLANEOUS 

cation  of  a  passion,  I  should  have  sooner  done.  I  own  I  now 
do  it  with  some  distrust  of  my  own  abilities,  in  doing  jus- 

tion  to  the  crown;  and  almost  every  indictment  must  first  be  tried  by  the 
attorney-general  before  it  could  come  regularly  into  a  court  of  justice.  I 
presume  you  will  conceive  it  was  not  for  these  purposes  that  this  prero- 
gative was  vested  in  your  hands;  and  that  there  must  appear  some  strong 
reasons  peculiar  to  the  case  to  shew  why  it  is  improper  and  unfit  for  pub- 
lic discussion,  besides  merely  that  of  the  prosecution  being  ill-grounded, 
to  induce  you  to  make  this  extraordinary  interposition.  I  submit  to  yon, 
Sir,  with  great  deference,  that  there  appears  no  such  reasons  in  this  case. 
Every  motive  of  policy  and  prudence  seems  to  weigh  on  the  other  side. 
The  question  to  be  tried  is  the  most  important  that  can  be  well  con- 
ceived. The  privileges  of  the  House  of  Commons  on  the  one  side,  and  the 
liberties  of  the  people  of  England  on  the  other,  are  said  to  be  materially 
affected.  Perhaps  indeed  it  might  have  been  wished  that  this  great  ques- 
tion had  never  been  started,  or  brought  to  the  public  view,  by  issuing  the 
warrant  in  question.  But  when  it  has  been  already  so  much  agitated,  and 
has  engrossed  the  attention  of  the  public,  it  seems  necessary,  for  the  satis- 
faction and  quiet  of  the  kingdom,  that  it  should  proceed  to  a  solemn  and 
legal  determination  in  a  court  of  justice.  If,  therefore,  Sir,  the  House  of 
Commons  had  no  authority  by  law  to  authorize  Mr.  Whittam  to  make  the 
arrest  upon  the  prosecutor,  or  if,  in  fact,  no  authority  was  delegated  to 
him,  in  either  of  these  cases  he  has  illegally  assaulted  an  innocent  man, 
and  deprived  him  of  his  liberty;  and  the  entering  a  noli  prosequi  would  be 
an  obstruction  of  public  justice.  If  on  the  other  hand  the  House  of  Com- 
mons had  a  legal  authority,  and  regularly  delegated  the  execution  of  it  to 
Mr.  Whittam,  the  public  should  be  convinced  of  it  by  a  discussion  and 
determination  in  a  court  of  law.  And  the  granting  the  noli  prosequi  in  that 
case  would  tend  to  mislead  many  people  into  an  opinion  that  it  was  done 
to  screen  an  offender  from  the  laws,  who  had  no  legal  justification  in  a 
court  of  justice:  I  therefore  submit  to  you,  Sir,  for  these  reasons,  that 
you,  as  attorney-general,  will  not  think  proper  in  this  case  to  grant  a  noli 
prosequi." 

Mr.  Attorney-General.  "  Do  you  produce  any  evidence?" 
Mr.  Adair.  "  We  offer  no  other  evidence  than  what  appears  in  the  affi- 
davit of  the  defendant  himself,  and  the  warrant  to  which  it  refers." 

Mr.  Attorney-General.  "  You  are  extremely  right  in  this  that  it  is  not  at. 
all  a  fit  thing  for  the  attorney-general  to  try  either  the  fact  upon  which 
the  defendant  is  indicted,  or  to  determine  the  law.  The  only  question  is 
this,  whether  it  is  fit  for  the  king  to  interpose  as  the  prosecutor  of  this 
offence?  That,  I  take  it,  should  be  the  ground  of  your  argument,  and  the 
point  upon  which  I  expected  satisfaction.  The  affidavit  itself  states  the 
messenger  of  the  House  of  Commons  to  be  acting  under  the  authority  of 
the  House  of  Commons;  and  if  this  was  the  only  way  in  which  that  ques- 
tion could  be  brought  before  a  court  of  law,  I  should  be  obliged  to  give 
an  opinion  whether  it  ought,  or  whether  it  ought  no*. 

«  Tft« 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  429 

tice  to  the  undertaking.   Your  lordship  must  be  aware  that 
it  is  generally  a  matter  of  some  degree  of  delicacy  to  under- 

"  The  only  point  I  have  to  consider  is,  whether  it  be  fit  for  the  name  of 
the  crown  to  appear  in  prosecuting  one  who  appears  to  be  the  messenger 
of  the  House  of  Commons,  and  to  be  armed  by  the  authority  of  that 
house  for  doing  the  very  thing  he  has  done  under  the  orders  of  the 
house?  I  don't  mean  to  pass  over  the  objection  which  has  been  made,  that 
the  speaker  of  the  house,  by  orders  of  the  house,  directing  the  warrant 
to  a  person  not  named  in  such  order,  whether  that  order  extends  only  to 
arresting  the  prosecutor,  and  taking  him  into  the  custody  of  the  serjeant 
at  arms  or  his  deputy:  I  dare  say  I  take  Mr.  Adair's  objection  perfectly 
right;  the  order  of  the  house  is  for  taking  him  into  the  custody  of  the  Ser- 
jeant at  arms,  or  his  deputy;  and  the  objection  is,  that  the  person  in 
whose  custody  the  prosecutor  was  originally  taken,  is  neither  the  Ser- 
jeant at  arms  or  his  deputy;  and  the  doubt  you  raise  upon  it  is,  whether 
the  speaker  of  the  House  of  Commons  can  authorize  another  person  to 
arrest  and  bring  him  into  the  custody  of  the  serjeant  at  arms,  or  his 
deputy;  for  the  serjeant  at  arms,  or  his  deputy,  is  the  proper  and  the  only 
custody  I  know  of  belonging  to  the  house,  and  the  gentleman's  argument 
is,  that  in  point  of  the  arrest  it  cannot  be  made  without  the  serjeant,  or 
deputy  serjeant,  with  respect  to  the  orders  of  the  House  of  Commons, 
and  the  direction  of  the  warrant  by  the  speaker,  which  is  a  question  of  law 
to  be  sure.  It  has  been  constant  in  point  of  practice  for  the  messengers  to 
be  employed  (in  the  orders  of  the  house,  and  for  other  than  messengers 
to  be  employed)  upon  the  very  same  occasion.  There  is  nothing  so  con- 
stant as  the  messengers  all  to  be  employed:  there  are  some  few  instances 
where  more  than  the  messengers  have  been  employed  upon  these  occa- 
sions. The  difficulty  upon  it  was,  whether  they  should  or  not  be  inserted 
in  the  warrant;  or  whether  if  they  were  not  inserted  in  the  warrant,  it 
could  be  construed  under  the  general  description  of  the  serjeant  at  arms, 
or  his  deputy;  or  whether  that  authority  could  go  to  warrant  those  which 
might  be  appointed  by  the  serjeant  at  arms,  or  his  deputy,  upon  that  oc- 
casion. It  was  thought  more  proper  to  make  a  warrant  directed  to  the 
person  to  be  employed,  though  it  was  mentioned  in  the  orders  of  the 
house  that  the  custody  was  to  be  that  of  the  serjeant  at  arms,  or  his 
deputy,  according  to  the  usual  form  of  their  orders. 

"  But  the  only  point  for  me  to  consider  is,  how  far  it  is  fit  the  king 
should  be  the  prosecutor  of  a  servant  of  the  House  of  Commons  in  the  ex- 
ertion of  a  privilege  which  they  now  claim,  which  they  have  claimed  for 
ages,  and  have  been  in  the  possession  of  for  ages,  and  that  the  king  should 
be  brought  into  a  proceeding  against  the  servant  of  the  house  as  a  prose- 
cutor. The  noli  prosequi  is  called  a  prerogative  right  of  the  crown;  it 
amounts  to  no  more  than  this,  that  the  king  makes  his  election  whether 
ke  will  continue  or  not  to  be  the  prosecutor  upon  an  indictment,  and  the 
toU  prosequi  is  entered  in  the  same  words  in  case  of  the  crown  as  of  a  pri- 
vate 


430  MISCELLANEOUS 

take  the  discussion  of  any  part  or  system  of  politics,  as  it  is 
of  some  difficulty  to  avoid  the  share  of  imputations  which 

vate  person.  The  entry  upon  the  record  is  exactly  the  same  by  the  attor- 
ney-general  as  by  a  private  plaintiff  upon  record  in  any  civil  suit. 

"  I  did  expect  that  you  would  have  given  me  some  reason  for  enter- 
taining an  opinion,  that  it  was  decent  and  fit  for  the  crown  to  continue  and 
stand  forth  as  a  prosecutor  of  the  messenger  of  the  House  of  Commons 
acting  under  their  direction,  in  maintenance  of  a  privilege  they  have 
claimed  and  held  so  long.  That  is  the  only  point  I  put  it  upon.  The  affi- 
davit as  made  by  the  defendant  makes  it  necessary  to  consider  him  as  an 
officer  of  the  house. 

■'  I  did  not  indeed  expect  any  disputes  upon  it,  or  that  it  would  be  put 
upon  so  small  a  ground:  the  reason  I  expected  was,  that  it  was  becoming 
an  officer  of  the  crown,  in  the  name  of  the  crown,  to  continue  a  prosecu- 
tion by  the  crown  against  the  messenger  of  the  House  of  Commons,  act- 
ing under  the  authority  of  the  House  of  Commons." 

Mr.  Adair  expressing  a  doubt  whether  it  would  be  proper  for  him  to 
make  any  reply  to  this,  the  attorney-general  said  he  should  be  glad  to 
bear  him. 

Mr.  Adair.  "  With  regard  to  what  you  have  suggested,  it  is  true  the 
entry  upon  record  is  the  same  in  the  case  of  the  crown  as  of  a  private  per- 
son, yet  in  a  prosecution  by  indictment  the  crown  is  not  solely  concerned. 
To  make  the  case  exactly  similar,  it  should  be  an  information  ex  officio, 
or  any  other  really  and  truly  a  crown  prosecution,  and  then  the  entering 
noli  prosequi  upon  that,  would  be  the  same  as  upon  private  actions.  But  in 
the  case  of  indictments  the  king  being  in  fact  a  nominal  prosecutor, 
though  his  name  is  necessary,  and  the  injured  party  being  the  true  prose- 
cutor, who  applies  to  the  laws  of  his  country  for  justice  against  the 
offender,  who  has  violated  those  laws  and  particularly  injured  him;  if  in 
that  case  the  king  puts  a  stop  to  this  prosecution  by  withdrawing  his 
name  from  it,  it  is  the  same  in  effect,  though  not  in  form,  as  if  he  sent 
his  mandate,  and  said  that  prosecution  should  not  go  on;  because  if  he 
withdraws  his  name  from  it,  that  prosecution  cannot  by  the  laws  go  any 
further,  the  prosecutor  himself  cannot  proceed  in  his  own  name;  the 
withdrawing  that  name  has  the  same  effect  as  the  actual  interposition  of 
prerogative  by  the  attorney-general,  and  operates  the  same  as  a  pardon. 
Mr.  Whittam  being  alleged  to  have  acted  under  the  authority  of  the 
House  of  Commons,  to  have  had  a  warrant  directed  to  him;  the  question 
is  not  whether  the  Warrant  is  legal  or  not,  but  whether  it  is  proper  for  the 
crown  to  put  a  stop  to  that  prosecution,  and  whether  the  privileges  of 
the  House  of  Commons  being  said  to  be  concerned,  any  interposition  of 
the  crown  be  necessary  to  support  their  authority.  If  Whittam  has  acted 
in  pursuance  of  the  order  of  the  house,  if  those  orders  are  such  as  the 
house  has  a  competent  authority  to  make,  1  submit  that  it  cannot  be  a 
doubt  that  that  matter  pleaded  or  brought  in  a  regular  manner  before  a 
court  of  justice  would  be  a  sufficient  defence-  If  the  courts  of  law  are  of 

opinion 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  431 

are  indiscriminately  thrown  on  all  who  submit  their  anony- 
mous opinions  to  the  public.  Though  these  reproaches  may 
fall  on  those  whose  names  would  give  some  credit  to  their 
assertions,  yet  while  they  adopt  the  common  method  of  hire- 
lings, their  writings  must  expect  the  same  treatment.  With 
whatever  circumstances  any  object  of  my  notice  might  be  at- 
tended, I  should  expect  criticism,  and  I  hope  I  could  bear  it 
with  temper.  I  cannot  however  help  considering  it  as  a 
lucky  circumstance,  that  the  first  production  I  ever  ventured 
to  give  to  the  public  excludes  the  possibility  of  any  imputa- 
tion, as  the  actions  I  shall  condemn  admit  not  the  possibility 
of  defence.  Before  I  arraign  your  subsequent  conduct,  which 
I  mean  to  do  pretty  freely,  I  must  admire  the  simple  candour 

opinion  that  the  house  has  that  authority,  and  that  it  was  regularly  dele- 
gated to  Whittam,  they  would  necessarily  be  of  opinion  to  acquit  him; 
and  upon  that  ground  there  appears  to  be  no  necessity  for  the  crown  with- 
drawing itself  from  a  prosecution,  which  by  no  possible  means  can  prove 
oppressive  or  injurious  to  the  defendant.  If  he  has  acted  under  a  legal  au- 
thority, he  must  be  legally  acquitted  in  a  court  of  justice.  But  if  the 
authority  is  not  sufficient,  or  not  regularly  conveyed,  it  is  proper,  for  the 
sake  of  justice  and  the  liberty  of  the  subject,  that  judgment  should  be 
pronounced  upon  it  in  a  court  of  law.  I  believe  the  prosecutor  does  not 
contend,  that  the  defendant  has  been  guilty  of  that  kind  of  offence,  for 
which  lie  means  to  prosecute  him  with  any  rigour;  he  don't  mean  to  op- 
press him,  or  proceed  for  the  sake  of  punishment  only;  whether  it  is  five 
pounds  or  five  thousand  is  indifferent  to  him;  the  only  thing  he  wishes  is 
to  have  the  question  decided  by  a  legal  competent  jurisdiction.  If  it 
comes  regularly  before  the  court,  though  perhaps  upon  this  indictment 
it  could  not,  but  if  it  does,  the  question  is,  whether  the  speaker  of  the 
House  of  Commons  had  a  sufficient  legal  authority  to  authorize  that  arrest, 
or  whether  the  defendant  has  actually  acted  under  that  authority,  such  as 
it  was;  and  I  submit  to  your  consideration,  whether  upon  that  point,  such 
interposition  appears  to  be  necessary  in  this  case,  either  upon  behalf  of 
the  defendant,  or  of  the  privilege  of  the  House  of  Commons." 

Mr.  Attorney -General.  "  I  don't  put  it  upon  the  tenderness  to  Mr.  Whit- 
tam, or  the  point  of  privilege  of  the  House  of  Commons,  but  merely  upon 
the  foot  of  decency,  as  the  circumstance  of  the  crown  taking  a  part  in  the 
prosecution  (which  they  must  do  if  they  go  on  with  it)  against  the  mes- 
senger of  the  House  of  Commons,  acting  under  the  authority  of  the  war- 
rant of  the  speaker,  pursuant  to  an  order  of  the  house." 

Mr.  De  Grey,  the  attorney-general,  was  afterwards  chief  justice  of 
the  common  pleas,  and  Mr.  Adair,  subsequently,  recorder  of  London. — 
Edit. 


432  MISCELLANEOUS 

with  which  you  have  declared  yourself  without  principle.  In 
the  most  destructive  administrations,  composed  of  men  per- 
haps more  profligate  than  your  lordship,  care  has  generally 
been  taken  to  save,  in  some  measure,  appearances  with  the 
public;  and  although  the  destruction  of  this  constitution  has 
been  pretty  clearly  their  object,  they  have  never  ventured 
openly  to  avow  it:  even  the  Duke  of  Grafton  did  not  con- 
demn his  own  principles,  though  he  avowed  and  gloried  in 
such  measures  as  no  man  with  principle  could  undertake. 
Your  lordship  is  the  first  man  who  ever  saved  others  the 
trouble  of  accusation.  Your  protests  must  remain  to  all  pos- 
terity a  monument  of  your  infamy;  and  one  would  almost 
imagine  you  designed  they  should.  You  are  young,  my 
lord:  you  thought  it  was  necessary  for  a  man  of  fashion  to 
engage  in  public  business;  and  as  some  of  your  private  con- 
nexions happened  to  be  in  opposition,  you  went  with  the 
stream,  and  opposed.  Apparently  attached  to  that  party,  you 
perhaps  thought  it  a  civility  to  adopt  and  pursue  their  mea- 
sures, whatever  they  were,  of  opposition;  and  your  vanity 
was  afterwards  tickled  with  an  offer  from  administration 
which  your  civility  would  not  permit  you  to  refuse.  You 
did  not  reflect,  or  perhaps  you  did  not  know,  that  you  was 
catching  at  an  object  which  was  not  attended  even  with  the 
usual  appearance  of  honour;  and  you  did  not  then  consider 
(for  I  am  sure  you  must  now  recollect),  that  you  was  attach- 
ing yourself  to  men  from  whose  connexion  that  protest, 
which  will  now  be  transmitted  down  with  ridicule  to  your 
posterity,  ought  to  have  excluded  you  for  ever; — or  perhaps 
to  speak  more  fairly  or  more  fashionably,  you  thought  the 
force  of  such  declarations  was  no  longer  of  consequence 
when  the  purpose  was  answered  for  which  they  were  made. 
—These  reasons  are  so  much  below  a  school-boy,  that  I  am 
sure  your  lordship  would  not  be  willing  to  allege  them;  and 
if  you  have  in  the  world  a  friend,  he  will  not  wish  you  should: 
but  unhappily  friendship  is  not  one  of  those  ruling  objects 
which  you  have  been  solicitous  to  preserve,  however  fortu- 
nate you  may  formerly  have  been  in  obtaining  it. — The  man 
who  without  honour  to  support  any  administration  from 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  433 

principle,  has  still  craft  enough  to  betray  all,  may  perhaps 
be  solicited  by  every  successive  minister,  or  perhaps  their 
credulity  may  be  deceived  into  his  friendship;  but  the  poor, 
untaught  villain,  who  can  neither  support  with  consist- 
ency, nor  betray  with  deiency,  will  be  despised  by  those 
whom  he  deserted,  and  ridiculed  by  the  very  men  to  whom 
he  has  made  so  capital  a  surrender.  Your  lordship,  I  be- 
lieve, sees  with  some  uneasiness  the  truth  of  the  observa- 
tion, and  I  will  give  your  conscience  credit  for  the  feelings 
it  must  produce;  I  would  therefore  consider  you,  what  you. 
seem  willing  to  be  considered,  an  object  of  pity  rather  than 
of  reproach.  The  situation  in  which  you  appeared  before  a 
whole  House  of  Peers,  and  the  trial  you  then  underwent, 
might  be  an  object  of  triumph  to  some  men;  but  I  hope  all 
hearts  were  not  shut  to  the  feelings  of  compassion.  I  am 
willing  only  to  extend  reproach  to  those  who  seem  proud  of 
receiving  it.  The  criminal  who  is  executed  at  the  gallows 
ought  not  to  excite  the  anger,  much  less  the  exultations  of 
the  public,  whom  he  has  defrauded;  but  the  villain  who  has 
seduced  him  to  the  commission  of  the  crime  for  which  he 
suffers,  and  who  glories  in  his  impudence,  has  a  claim  to  all 
we  can  give  him — our  detestation  and  our  curses.  The  com- 
parison I  think  you  understand,  and  I  believe  you  have  sen- 
sibility enough  to  feel  it;  indeed  you  testified  it  sufficiently 
to  those  who  could  observe  you  wished  to  justify,  or  at  least 
to  excuse  so  extraordinary  a  change  of  principles  and  con- 
duct; your  courage  forsook  you,  and  you  did  not  dare  to 
rise.  The  Duke  ot  Grafton,  when  he  deserted  those  princi- 
ples and  those  connections  to  which  every  sentiment  of  ho* 
no  *r  ought  to  have  allied  and  bound  him,  seemed  happily 
to  nave  lost  all  that  mauvaise  honte  with  which  young  adven- 
turers like  his  grace  were  usually  attended,  and  he  credita- 
bly told  us,  that  he  gloried  m  his  situation.  Your  loidship's 
prostitution  was  not  attended  with  those  peculiar  circum- 
stances which  attended  his;  you  felt  the  sacrifice  you  had 
made,  your  conscience  forced  your  silence,  and  every  man 
was  confounded;  administration  looked  for  a  notable  advo- 
cate, but  were  deceived  with  a  reproach  which  cut  them  to 
Vol.  II.  3  1 


434  MISCELLANEOUS 

the  quick.  For  your  own  sake,  my  lord,  let  me  advise 
you  to  consider  your  own  plan,  and  let  me  appeal  to  your 
understanding  for  its  acquittal.  Your  situation  by  birth  is 
such  as  put  it  in  your  own  power  to  have  acquitted  yourself 
in  life  respectably,  and  your  connection  with  such  men  as 
Lord  Rockingham,  Sir  George  Saville,  the  Duke  of  Port- 
land, and  the  Duke  of  Richmond,  were  no  disgrace  to  you. 
Was  your  fortune  encumbered  with  debt,  or  sold  through 
extravagance?  Had  you  a  numerous  family  to  provide  for, 
whose  support  you  could  not  command  from  your  own  es- 
tablishment? Had  administration  reverted  its  order  of  go- 
verning, and  given  you  any  security  for  the  preservation  of 
our  rights  and  redress  of  our  grievances? — If  any  private 
assurance  of  this  sort  has  been  given  you,  I  shall  think  your 
conduct  has  been  consistent,  though  it  will  still  be  disgrace- 
ful, with  respect  to  your  friends  in  opposition.  You  will  not 
answer  any  of  these  questions  in  the  affirmative;  nor  is  it 
necessary  you  should  answer  them  at  all.  The  two  first  pro- 
positions I  know  to  be  false.  The  third,  if  it  had  existed, 
would  before  this  time  have  been  declared.  Thus  we  see  a 
hopeful  young  peer  possessed  of  an  independent  fortune, 
with  an  only  child,  a  daughter,  connected  with  the  most 
honourable  characters  in  this  kingdom,  prostituting  his  ho- 
nour, and  every  valuable  consideration  of  the  public,  for 
that  of  an  office,  independent  even  of  those  sweet  allure- 
ments which  could,  one  would  imagine,  make  the  bitter  pill 
go  down.  For  shame,  my  lord,  to  throw  yourself  away  un- 
der such  circumstances  at  the  discretion  of  such  an  adminis- 
tration! Had  you,  like  poor  Whateley,  been  reduced  from  a 
state  of  independence,  to  the  humiliating  necessity  of  soli- 
citing your  support  from  administration,  our  reproach  would 
be  only  turned  against  those  who  creditably  took  advantage 
of  such  a  situation,  and  gratified  themselves  with  the  pur- 
chase of  an  honest  man's  reputation;  and  though  we  congra- 
tulated them  on  the  acquisition  which  they  had  prudently 
secured,  we  should  sincerely  pity  the  object  of  their  triumph. 
I  am  neither  surprised  nor  shocked  at  any  inconsistency  in 
Mr.  Wedderburne;  his  profession  sets  his  principles  at  auc- 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  435 

tion,  and  it  is  reasonable  that  the  highest  bidder  should  com- 
mand them:  but  that  the  Earl  of  Suffolk  should  act  such  a 
part,  I  own  astonished  me:  a  man  who  had  every  thing  to 
lose,  and  nothing  to  gain  bv  prostitution:  that  an  indepen- 
dent peer  of  England  should  voluntarily  pledge  himself  to 
his  country  for  the  exertion  of  every  right  and  every  power, 
with  which  the  constitution  had  vested  him  for  their  service, 
and  should  after  this  betray  every  interest  of  the  public,  and 
desert  that  service;  that  he  should  in  one  session  repeatedly 
declare  to  this  purport,  if  not  to  this  tenour,  that  he  would 
never  hereafter  be  induced  for  any  consideration  to  herd 
with  men  whom  he  considered  as  enemies  to  their  king  and 
country,  and  in  the  next  deliver  over  his  conscience,  his 
right  and  his  powers  into  their  hands  at  their  discretion,  and 
thereby  include  himself  in  every  odious  term  of  reproach 
which  he  had  so  liberally  bestowed  on  them.  There  seems 
something  at  least  extraordinary  in  such  conduct;  and  we  are 
induced,  with  some  curiosity,  to  enquire,  for  God's  sake, 
Sir,  from  what  consideration  could  Lord  Suffolk  be  induced 
to  take  so  strong  a  part  with  opposition,  if  he  intended  the 
next  session  to  betray  it.?  Or  if  he  was  then  sincere  in  his 
attachments  and  his  professions,  what  views  could  he  have 
in  deserting  them?  These  are  reasonable,  and  I  think  natu- 
ral questions.  We  cannot  but  commiserate  the  mortifying 
state  of  human  nature,  when  we  are  answered  the  truth,  and 
informed  of  the  circumstances  attending  it.  Had  you,  my 
lord,  been  entrapped,  like  poor  Yorke,  by  the  prevailing  force 
which  was  contained  in  the  personal  entreaties  and  solicita- 
tions of  Majesty,  and  had  your  honour  been  seduced  and 
struck  into  compliance,  though  we  should  abhor  the  act,  we 
should  acquit  at  least  you  of  the  guilt;  and  you  would  have 
had  a  just  claim  to  our  pity,  unmixed  with  our  contempt. 
But,mv  lord,  what  are  we  to  say  when  we  see  a  man  in  your 
lordship's  situation  stooping  to  so  humiliating  a  considera- 
tion, as  to  entreat  a  connection  in  office  with  those  very  men 
whom  vou  had  before  reviled  and  despised?  That  you  should, 
after  being  answered  with  an  air  of  superiority,  that  you  was 
at  least  the  third  to  be  considered,  that  you  should  wait  with 


436  MISCELLANEOUS 

patience  and  resignation,  and  see  three  men  successively  re- 
fuse such  a  connection,  and  then  accept  it  under  such  cir- 
cumstances. The  conclusion  which  we  are  to  draw,  I  leave 
to  your  lordship's  feelings  to  determine;  you  have  had  time 
to  reflect  on  your  situation,  and  I  would  not  wish  to  add 
more  to  embitter  the  sweets  of  office.  Had  this  address  ap- 
peared sooner,  while  you  was  Jbrtuna  didci  ebrius,  you  would 
perhaps  have  laughed  with  Lord  Sandwich  at  the  undertak- 
ing of  one  who  endeavoured  to  prove,  that  honesty  and  vir- 
tue had  any  real  existence.  You  would,  like  the  Duke  of 
Grafton,  have  perused  it  at  your  tea-table,  and  perhaps  taken 
a  pride,  likt  Lord  Hillsborough,  that  you  was  dignified  with 
an  enemy,  though  you  had  not  like  him  preserved  a  friend. 
But  I  think,  my  lord,  a  sufficient  time  is  elapsed,  during 
which  some  intervals  of  private  reflection  and  remorse  must 
have  interfered,  and  the  flattery  of  those  who  purchased 
must  have  subsided,  and  left  your  conscience  and  Mr.  Gren- 
ville  to  reproach  you.  For  I  still  believe  you  to  consist  of 
that  composition,  which  without  virtue  enough  to  avoid 
prostitution,  has  still  feeling  enough  to  be  ashamed  of  it. 

HENRICUS. 
Yorkshire,  7  M;irch,  1771. 

[This  letter  has  been  misplaced,  or  would  have  appeared 
sooner.] 


LETTER  XCVIL 

TO  THE  EARL  OF  SUFFOLK. 
My  Lord,  21  May,  1771. 

In  my  last  address  to  your  lordship,  I  spoke  to  your  feel- 
ings. I  thought  your  conduct  was  such  as  could  afford  no 
very  pleasing  reflection;  and  I  readily  believed  that  you  was 
willing  to  consider  the  tenderness  which  had  been  preserved 
on  the  occasion  with  that  silent  gratitude  which  refined  and 
delicate  feelings  must  naturally  suggest.  It  was  acknowledg- 
ed that  Lord  Suffolk  acted  without  virtue  or  without  reflec- 
tion; and  I  believe  most  men  concurred  with  me  in  sup- 
posing that  you  had  feeling  enough  to  be  ashamed  of  a 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  437 

transaction,  which  you  had  not  courage  to  avoid.  The  re- 
signation with  which  you  seemed  to  submit  to  your  igno- 
miny was  some  pledge  of  your  delicacy,  if  not  of  your  inte- 
grity. You  was  pitied,  I  believe,  by  all  mankind,  and  per- 
haps by  some  you  were  forgiven;  the  transaction  sunk,  as  it 
might  be  supposed  you  wished  it  should,  in  silence  and  ob- 
scurity. It  was  not,  I  believe,  imagined  that  you  would  ever 
be  found  hardy  enough  to  renew  the  consideration  of  an 
affair,  which  every  man  who  felt  for  you  must  wish  to  be 
forgotten.  It  was  not  conceived  that  so  short  a  time  would 
have  reconciled  you  to  a  measure,  which  no  man  of  under- 
standing could  view  without  ridicule.  But  we  live  in  an  age 
where  no  inconsistency  is  irreconcilable,  and  are  governed 
by  men  with  whom  no  villany  is  inconsistent.  They  have, 
I  suppose,  my  lord,  made  a  convert  of  your  understanding 
as  well  as  your  integrity,  and  you  may  be  indebted  to  the 
piety  of  Lord  Sandwich  for  a  system  of  ideas  more  con- 
formable to  the  plan  you  have  pursued.  He  may  have  taught 
you,  that  to  repent  of  successful  villany  is  still  greater  folly 
than  to  preserve  integrity.  I  congratulate  you  on  the  con- 
nection you  have  formed,  and  the  acquisition  you  have 
secured;  especially  since  you  have  lost  nothing  but  your 
honour;  a  term  "  more  adapted  to  Roman  barbarism  than 
to  the  civilized  regulations  of  English  (I  beg  pardon)  Scotch 
policy." — Your  lordship,  I  believe,  recollects  the  inconsist? 
ency  which  occasions  this  address.  Your  speech  on  the 
Duke  of  Richmond's  motion  in  the  House  of  Lords  was  a 
pretty  remarkable  adventure. — Had  you  contentedly  and 
professedly  resigned  yourself  without  attempting  to  recon- 
cile your  present  with  your  former  system,  your  conduct, 
believe  me,  would  never  have  called  out  a  second  attack  on 
so  truly  contemptible  a  being.  It  is  the  singular  immodesty 
of  your  behaviour  which  I  own  has  tempted  me  to  expose 
you,  as  you  are  willing  to  be  an  object  of  public  detestation 
and  disgust.  There  are  few  men,  except  Mr.  Wedderburne 
and  your  lordship,  who  would  have  gone  through  the  diffi- 
culty of  exposing  themselves  to  those  who  had  such  evidence 
against  them,  with  that  happy  indifference  which  we  have 


438  MISCELLANEOUS 

experienced  from  you  both.  To  preserve  the  hypocrisy  of 
patriotism,  after  you  had  openly  made  your  compact  with 
corruption;  to  profess  consistency  in  adhering  to  the  words 
of  a  protest,  on  the  tenour  of  which  your  whole  conduct  is 
the  grossest  ridicule;  and  to  possess  the  characteristics^ 
firmness  of  administration  in  reviving  so  ignominious  a  con- 
sideration, requires  more  courage  and  intrepidity  than  most 
men  have  the  good  fortune  to  possess:  but  I  allow  your 
friend  Wedderburne  has  out-stripped  you.  He  has  modestly 
ventured  not  only  virtually,  but  directly  to  attack  opposition 
for  measures  which  he  himself  conceded  in  promoting;  and 
hears  himself  despised,  execrated,  detested,  without  fear, 
and  without  anger.  Let  him  excuse  me  when  I  assure  him, 
with  some  very  allowable  pride,  that  I  do  not  think  he  has  a 
claim  to  any  notice  beyond  my  advice  to  consider,  that  the 
power  from  whence  he  derives  very  superior  abilities,  will 
expect  and  must  receive  an  account  to  what  purposes  they 
have  been  employed. — You  will  now  perhaps  ask  me,  in  all 
the  hypocritical  simplicity  of  St.  James's,  what  part  had  I  to 
act  after  making  a  traffic  of  my  abilities  which  might  not 
have  given  offence?  I  justified  before  all  mankind  the  pro- 
test which  I  had  signed,  and  the  pen  of  satire  has  been  busy 
to  condemn  me.  Had  my  conduct  been  different,  would  it 
have  been  consistent?  Would  it  have  been  satisfactory?  To 
this  I  must  answer, — You  had  brought  yourself,  my  lord, 
into  that  odious  situation,  where  you  could  neither  retreat 
with  decency,  nor  persevere  with  integrity;  but  to  have  re- 
tired from  the  curses  of  your  countrymen  would  have  been 
remembered,  I  believe,  more  to  your  credit  as  a  man,  if  not 
as  a  minister;  but  I  make  too  great  allowance  I  find  for  hu- 
man nature.  I  have  not  reflected  that  the  only  valuable  con- 
sideration is  interest;  and  I  have  forgot  that  influence  to 
which  Mr.  Yorke  is  indebted  for  a  very  hazardous  eternity. 
— For  the  future  I  shall  learn  to  view  things  with  less  can- 
dour, and  observe  villany,  if  not  without  mortification,  at 
least  without  surprise.  I  shall  now  take  my  leave  of  your 
lordship,  probably  for  ever:  but  I  must  congratulate  vou, 
my  lord,  on  that  ambition  which  has  led  you  to  inquire  into 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  439 

those  desirable  arcana  of  a  court,  by  which  you  have  learned 
a  sort  of  loyalty  distinct  from  duty  to  his  Majesty,  or  affec- 
tion to  his  family;  by  which  you  have  found  that  it  will  be 
for  your  interest,  and  consequently  for  your  honour,  to  at- 
tach yourself  hereafter  to  men,  who,  while  they  act  directly 
contrarv  to  the  interest  of  their  countrymen,  and  indifferent 
with  regard  to  their  confidence  and  esteem,  can  hug  them- 
selves among  the  highest  of  mankind,  and  ridicule  the  con- 
temptible folly  of  those  whose  virtue  has  excluded  them 
from  their  share  in  the  plunder  of  mankind. 

HENRICUS. 


LETTER  XCVIII. 

TO  THE   PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC  ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  28  June, 1771. 

In  answer  to  the  card  repeatedly  addressed  to  Domitian*, 
he  desires  it  may  be  observed  that,  although  he  has  not  altered 
his  sentiments  with  regard  to  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  the  case 
has  not  happened  in  which  he  thinks  himself  bound  either 
by  the  letter  or  the  spirit  of  his  promise  to  the  public.  The 
duke  is  not  first  lord  of  the  admiralty!,  nor  is  he  actually  in 
any  post  in  which  patents  can  immediately  be  sold  by  him- 
self; or  by  Tommy  Bradshaw,  or  by  Miss  Polly  Bradshaw, 
who,  like  the  moon,  lives  upon  the  light  of  her  brother's 
countenance,  and  robs  him  of  no  small  part  of  his  lustre. — 
The  fact  was  notorious.  The  sale  of  that  patent  to    Mr. 

*  The  following  is  a  copy  of  the  card: — 

J  19  June,  1771. 

TO    DO  MIT  IAN'. 

I\-  your  second  letter  is  this  remarkable  promise: — "Tell  the  Duke  of 
Grafton,  that,  if  he  should  dare  to  entertain  the  most  distant  thought  of 
the  admiralty,  the  whole  affair  of  Hine's  patent  shall  be  revived,  and  pub- 
lished with  an  accumulation  of  evidence.  He  at  least  shall  be  kept  under. 
His  Ciceronian  eloquence  shall  not  suve  him." 

As  the  Duke  of  Grafton  has  got  an  higher  and  more  lucrative  office, 
it  is  expected  hy  the  puhlic  that  you  now  fulfil  your  promise.  Edit. 

f  His  grace  had  now  rejoined  the  ministry,  and  held  the  office  of  lord 
privy  seal.  Edit. 


440  MISCELLANEOUS 

Hine,  (the  only  man  of  merit  whom  the  Duke  of  Grafton 
ever  provided  for,)  so  far  from  being  denied,  was  publicly 
defended.  Yet  the  House  of  Commons,  who  pretend  to  be 
the  grand  inquest  of  the  nation,  suffered  this  infamous  breach 
of  trust  to  pass  by  without  censure  or  examination.  For  the 
present,  therefore,  it  would  answer  no  good  purpose  for 
Domitian  to  produce  his  evidence.  But  perhaps  the  day  of 
inquiry  is  not  far  off.  In  the  mean  time  to  shew  the  duke 
that  Domitian  does  not  speak  at  random,  he  begs  leave  to 
remind  his  grace  that  there  are  three  such  persons  in  the 
world  as  Ross,  the  agent, —  Taylor,  the  house-builder  j  and 
Taylor's  little  boy. — Verbum  sat. 

Domitian,  upon  the  whole,  thinks  he  may  venture  to  leave 
the  Duke  of  Grafton,  or,  (if  there  be  one  more  odious,  more 
base,  and  more  contemptible  person  of  rank  in  the  kingdom) 
that  he  may  safely  leave  them  both  to  the  care  of  Junius*. 


LETTER  XCIX. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC  ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  5  July,  1771. 

Events  and  characters  of  a  similar  nature  recur  so  often 
within  the  compass  of  a  few  centuries,  that  history  is  in  effect 
little  more  than  a  repetition.  The  scenes  and  names  of  the 
performers  are  changed,  but  the  fable  is  the  same. — I  was 
led  to  this  observation  bv  a  passage  I  lately  met  with  in  a 
modern  French  author.  The  account  he  gives  us  of  the  Em- 
peror Valentinian  the  Third  deserves  our  notice: — "  Le 
premier  soin  de  cette  princesse  fut  d'inspirer  a  son  fils  l'hor- 
reur  de  l'hertsie  et  le  respect  pour  l'eglise; — qualites  tres 
estimables  dans  un  souverain,  mais  qui  ne  purent  couvrir  le 
vice  d'une  education  molle  et  effeminee.  Sa  mere  travailla 
plus  a  former  sa  croyance,  que  son  esprit  ni  ses  moeurs;  aussi 
fut-il  toujours  tres  catholique,  sans  etre  jamais  Chretien." 
For  the  benefit  of  my  Lord  Suffolk,  I  shall  give  you  a  irans- 

*  He  refers  to  Junihs's  two  letters  to  the  Duke  of  G;tfton,  No.  xlix 
and  l.  dates,  June  23  and  July  9, 1771.  Vol.  II.  p.  24  and  28.  Ed.i  r. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  441 

lation.  Mr.  Whateley,  I  hear,  has  got  the  start  of  his  mas- 
ter, and,  with  the  help  of  a  dictionary,  may  do  it  into  English 
for  himself.  "  The  Princess  Dowager  made  it  her  first  care 
to  inspire  her  son  with  horror  against  heresy,  and  with  a  re- 
spect for  the  church;  qualities  much  to  be  esteemed  in  a 
sovereign,  but  not  sufficient  to  conceal  the  defects  of  a  soft 
effeminate  education.  His  mother  took  more  pains  to  form 
his  belief,  than  either  his  morals  or  his  understanding,  so  that 
he  was  always  an  excellent  catholic  without  ever  being  a 
Christian."  I  do  not  mean  to  apply  the  passage,  but  merely 
to  save  some  future  historian  the  trouble  of  drawing  a  new 
character. 

I  am,  Sir, 
Your  humble  servant, 

AN  INNOCENT  READER. 


LETTER  C. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 

Sir,  16  Oct.  1771. 

If  the  pert  youth  who  calls  himself  An  Old  Correspondent* y 
and  who  makes  free  with  Junius,  does  not  know  the  dif- 
ference between  contact  and  collision,  nor  between  the  fric- 
tion which  produces  the  electrical  powers,  and  the  action  of 
flint  and  steel  which  produces  sparks  of  fire,  his  ignorance 
must  be  deplorable.  But  what  right  has  he  to  change  the 
terms? — Why  say  contact  when  Junius  says  collision? — 
When  this  pert  youth  asks  what  virtue  there  is  in  Mr. 
Wilkes,  I  wish  he  would  tell  us  what  fire  there  is  in  flint  and 
steel.  It  is  action  that  makes  them  sparkle,  and,  if  there  be 
any  thing  combustible  in  the  passions  of  Mr.  Nash,  a  single 
spark  may  set  him  on  fire. 

*  A  letter  under  this  signature  appeared  in  the  Public  Advertiser  in  an- 
swer to  Junius,  Letter  lix.  and  was  by  liim  attribute!  to  the  late  Mr.  Fox. 
That  Junius  was  inclined  to  favour,  or  rather,  in  the  words  of  the  con- 
cluding1 paragraph  of  this  essay,  to  spare  Lord  Holland,  is  obvious  through- 
out these  letters,  but  will  be  more  particularly  seen  by  a  reference  to 
Private  Letter,  No.  5. 

Vol.  II.  3  K 


442  MISCELLANEOUS 

Again,  Junius  admits  the  strict  right  of  pressing  seamen, 
but  denies  the  king's  right  to  arm  his  subjects  in  general,  ex- 
cepting in  the  case  of  an  invasion.  This  my  pretty  Black  Boy 
calls  a  retractation  of  Junius's  first  concession,  and  applies 
to  his  aged  father  for  an  old  woman's  proverb. — Junius 
speaks  of  softening  the  symptoms  of  a  disorder.  The  Black 
Boy  changes  the  terms  again,  and  destroys  the  allusion.  The 
rest  of  his  letter  is  of  a  piece  with  these  instances;  a  misre- 
presentation of  Junius,  equally  pert,  false,  and  stupid.  Ex 
his  disce  omnia. 

I  know  nothing  of  Junius,  but  I  see  plainly  that  he  has 
designedly  spared  Lord  Holland  and  his  family.  Whether 
Lord  Holland  be  invulnerable,  or  whether  Junius  should  be 
wantonly  provoked,  are  questions  worthy  the  Black  Boy's 
consideration. 

ANTI-FOX. 


LETTER  CI. 


TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  5  November,  1771. 

Junius,  I  see,  has  got  my  Lord  Mansfield  upon  the  hip, 
and  fairly  driven  the  Scotch  out  of  their  discretion,  and 
almost  out  of  their  senses.  The  change  in  the  apparent  posi- 
tion of  their  cheek-bones  is  very  remarkable.  The  compla- 
cent, insidious  smile  has  universally  given  way  to  a  ghastly 
grin  of  rancour  and  despair.  Your  correspondents  Anti- 
funiiis  and  One  of  the  Bail  actually  foam  at  the  mouth*. 

*  The  following1  are  copies  of  the  letters  here  alluded  to,  which  certainly 
evince  no  small  degree  of  acrimony:— 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE    TUBLIC  ADVERTISER. 

Sir,  4  Nov.  1771- 

You  have  inserted  in  your  paper  of  Saturday  last  a  short,  but  infamous, 
paragraph,  addressed  to  Lord  Chief  Justice  Mansfield,  and  signed  Junius, 
alleging  that  his  lordship  had  admitted  to  bail  a  man  at  the  intercession  of 
three  of  his  countrymen,  who  Junius  presumes  is  also  a  Scotchman. 

Injustice  to  his  lordship  (although  without  his  consent,  approbation,  or 
knowledge)  I  hereby  declare,  that  he  did  not  know  who  were  the  bail  for 
Mr.  Eyre,  nor  did  any  of  them  ever  make  any  prior  application  to  his  lord- 

ship. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  443 

But  calling  liar  and  scoundrel  is  no  answer  to  Junius.  He 
did  not  assert  that  the  thief  was  a  Scotchman*; — he  only pre~ 
sumed  it,  from  the  circumstance  of  his  being  bailed  by  three 
of  that  country.  It  appears  now  that  the  thief  was  closely 

*  His  words  are,  "at  the  intercession  of  three  of  your  countrymen,  you 
have  bailed  a  man,  who,  /  presume,  is  also  a  Scotchman."  See  Junius, 
Letter  lxv.  Vol.  II.  p.  120. 

ship,  nor  were  they  personally  acquainted  with  him,  though  'tis  probable 
his  lordship  might  have  seen  them  on  juries.  I  also  declare,  that  Mr.  Eyre 
is  not  a  Scotchman,  but  an  Englishman;  and  from  what  I  can  guess  of  Ju- 
nius, he  is  worse  than  either,  viz.  an  Irishman,  a  liar,  and  a  Jesuit. 

None  of  the  three  gentlemen  who  bailed  Mr.  Eyre  ever  saw  him  till  the 
morning  they  went  to  Lord  Mansfield's  at  Cane  Wood  to  bail  him.  This 
they  did  purely  to  oblige  an  intimate  friend  who  was  connected  with  him 
by  marriage,  without  any  other  motive  whatsoever. 

Whether  the  noble  lord,  whose  very  great  abilities  have  brought  upon 
him,  though  unjustly,  the  envy  and  malice  of  such  assassins  as  Junius, 
was  right  or  wrong,  I  leave  to  the  learned  in  the  law  to  defend,  and  have 
no  doubt  his  lordship  has  acted  in  this  matter  according  to  his  usual  ability 
in  law  affairs,  and  rather  with  a  view  to  enlarge  than  contract  the  liberty 
of  the  subject  At  the  same  time,  Mr.  Printer,  I  should  wish  to  be  certain 
who  this  Mr.  Junius  is  who  stabs  all  good  characters  in  the  dark.  My 
reason  is,  I  should  be  glad  of  an  opportunity  of  using  such  a  lying,  infa- 
mous, cowardly  scoundrel  as  he  ought  to  be;  for  which  purpose  (if  he 
chooses  it),  I  have  left  my  name  with  the  printer. 

One  of  the  three  who  bailed  Mr.  Eyre. 


TO  JUNIUS. 

4  Nov.  1771. 

You  seem  to  delight  most  in  traducing  the  most  exalted  and  most  re- 
spectable  characters. 

You  say,  Lord  Mansfield  bailed  Mr.  Eyre  at  the  intercession  of  three  of 
bis  countrymen. 

/  say,  that  is  false;  and  that  what  he  did,  was  his  duty  to  do  as  Lord 
Chief  Justice  of  England,  and  perfectly  agreeable  to  law  and  to  constant 
practice. 

You  say,  that  you  presume  Mr.  Eyre  is  a  Scotchman. 

Itay,  the  culprit  is  an  Englishman. 

You  say,  his  bail  were  all  Scotchmen. 

I  say,  they  were.  And  how  did  that  happen?  Because  a  Scotchman  is, 
by  marriage,  unhappily  allied  to  him:  and  why  should  it  be  deemed  a  re- 
proach that  they  joined  in  doing  a  good-natured  office  at  the  request  of  a 
countryman?  Or  that  they  contributed  to  alleviate  the  distress  of  an  inno- 
cent 


444  MISCELLANEOUS 

connected  with  Scotland.  These  sweet-blooded  children,  even 
when  they  bail  an  Englishman,  adhere  to  their  principles.  If 
the  devil  himself,  connected  as  he  is  with  an  ancient  nation, 
were  taken  up  for  felony,  I  do  not  doubt  that  all  Scotland,  to 
a  mon,  would  readily  be  his  security. 

Junius  did  not  blame  the  bail  for  interesting  themselves 
in  favour  of  their  friend,  countryman,  or  associate.  Yet  he 
might  have  done  it  with  propriety.  The  thief  was  not 
charged  on  suspicion,  but  taken  in  the  fact.  He  was,  ipso 
facto,  a  felon,  and  to  bail  him  required  all  the  natural  bene- 
volence of  Scotland.  Either  he  had  no  English  friends, 
or  they  were  ashamed  to  acknowledge  any  connexion  with 
him. 

Instead  of  meeting  Junius  upon  the  strict  question  of 
law,  these  loons  wander  into  circumstances  of  no  moment, 
or  defend  Lord  Mansfield  by  apocryphal  assertions,  which, 
if  true,  would  be  nothing  to  the  purpose.  One  says  that  he 
has  surrendered  and  taken  his  trial,  the  other  that  no  inter- 
cession was  made  with  Lord  Mansfield: — one  says  that  the 
felony  (for  which  the  culprit  is  unluckily  transported),  was 
of  the  slightest  kind; — the  other  says  that  Eyre  is  an  Eng- 
lishman. Now  the  plain  matter  of  fact  is  this.  A  thief,  taken 
in  the  fact,  is  refused  bail  by  the  Lord  Mayor  of  London. 
Three  Scotchmen  take  the  said  thief  or  felon  before  another 
— Scotchman,  who  bails  the  said  felon.  The  single  question 
arising  from  the  fact,  is,  was  he,  or  was  he  not  bailable  by 

cent  woman,  who,  though  unfortunately  connected  with  the  criminal,  had 
not  a  participation  in  his  guilt?  Dost  not  thou  know,  thou  slanderer,  that 
the  offence,  though  felony  by  law,  was  of  the  slightest  kind?  And  would'st 
thou  not,  had  that  able  and  amiable  judge  (whose  name  will  be  an  ever- 
lasting honour  to  this  country)  refused  to  admit  Mr.  Eyre  to  bail,  have 
traduced  his  lordship  for  that  very  refusal,  and  charged  him  with  execut- 
ing the  law  with  wanton  rigour,  because  he  was  an  Englishman? 

Mr.  Eyre  has  been  brought  to  trial,  and  has  pleaded  guilty.  /  say,  never- 
theless, that  the  offence  by  the  laws  of  England,  is  bailable;  and  I  pledge 
myself,  before  God  and  my  country,  to  prove  that  Ltrd  Chief  Justice 
Mansfield  acted  in  this  matter  agreeable  to  law,  and  that  Junius  has 
shewn  himself  in  this,  and  many  other  instances,  a  public  incendiary  and  a 
liar. 

Axti-Jukius. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  445 

law?  For  my  own  part,  until  I  hear  good  reasons  to  the 
contrary,  I  shall  abide  by  Junius,  because  I  am  persuaded 
he  would  not  hazard  his  credit  so  unnecessarily,  if  he  were 
not  very  sure  of  his  law. 

A.  B. 


LETTER  CII. 

TO  HIS  ROYAL  HIGHNESS  THE  DUKE  OF  CUMBERLAND. 
Sir,  13  November,  1771. 

I  beg  your  royal  highness's  acceptance  of  my  sincere 
compliments  of  congratulation  upon  your  auspicious  union 
with  the  daughter  of  Lord  Irnham*,  and  the  sister  of  Colo- 
nel Luttrell.  For  the  present  you  will  have  so  few  of  these 
compliments  paid  you,  that  mine  perhaps  may  be  thought 
worthy  your  attention.  I  do  assure  your  royal  highness,  with 
great  sincerity,  that,  when  I  consider  the  various  excellen- 
cies which  adorn  or  constitute  your  personal  character,— 
your  natural  parts, — your  affable,  benevolent,  generous  tem- 
per,— your  good  sense,  so  singularly  improved  by  experi- 
ence;— and,  above  all  the  rest,  the  uncommon  education 
which  your  venerable  mother  took  care  to  give  you, — I  do 
not  think  it  possible  to  have  found  a  more  suitable  match 
for  you,  than  that  which  you  have  so  discreetly  provided  for 
yourself.  What  you  have  done,  will,  I  am  sure,  be  no  dis- 
grace to  yourself,  or  to  any  of  your  relations.  Yet  I  must 

*  The  marriage  of  the  late  Duke  of  Cumberland  was  first  announced  to 
'.he  readers  of  the  Public  Advertiser  in  the  following  communication, 
obviously  from  the  pen  of  Junius. 

INTELLIGENCE  EXTRAORDINARY,  THOUGH  TRUE. 
We  can  assure  the  public  that  his  Royal  Highness  the  Duke  of  Cum- 
berland is  happily  married  to  Mrs.  Horton,  sister  of  Lieutenant-Colonel 
Luttrell,  the  worthy  nominee  of  Middlesex.  The  new-married  pair  are 
now  celebrating  their  nuptials  in  France,  where  the  Duchess  of  Cumber- 
land receives  all  the  honours  due  to  her  high  rank,  and  new  relation  to  the 
House  of  Brunswick. — This  match,  we  are  informed,  was  negotiated  by 
a  certain  duke  and  his  cream-coloured  parasite,  by  way  of  reward  to  Colo- 
nel Luttrell.  It  is  now,  happily  for  this  country,  within  the  limits  of  possi- 
bility, that  a  Luttrell  may  be  King  of  Great-Britain.  There  was  no  court 
yesterday. 


446  MISCELLANEOUS 

confess,  partial  as  I  am  to  you  for  the  sake  of  that  good 
prince,  of  whose  resemblance  you  carry  some  cutting  traces 
about  you,  I  could  wish  you  did  not  stand  quite  so  near  as 
you  do  to  the  regency  and  crown  of  England. — God  forbid 
I  should  ever  hear  your  royal  nephews  say,  as  Edward  the 
Fifth  does  in  the  play,  But  why  to  the  Tower,  uncle/ — Or 
why  should  you  lock  us  up,  aunt! — I  mean  their  uncle  Lut- 
treli  and  aunt  Horton. 

But,  my  good  youth,  let  no  considerations  of  this  sort 
interrupt  your  pleasures.  Your  amiable  spouse  is  as  much 
Duchess  of  Cumberland  as  our  gracious  queen  is  Queen  of 
Great  Britain;  and  of  course  she  is  the  second  woman  in  the 
kingdom.  Your  papa  Irnham  must  at  least  take  rank  of 
Lord  Mansfield; — your  brother  Henry  of  the  Princes  oj" 
Mecklenburg,  and  your  sister  Miss  Luttrell  of  Madam 
Swellemburgh.  As  to  the  king's  not  acknowledging  the 
duchess,  or  forbidding  her  the  court,  it  signifies  nothing.  Her 
marriage  is  good  in  law,  and  her  children  will  be  legitimate. 
She  may  order  plays,  keep  a  court  of  her  own,  and  set  the 
princess  dowager  at  defiance.  But  you  need  have  no  fear  of 
being  ill  used.  Your  brother  Harry  has  a  dagger  at  the 
throat  of  a  certain  person,  and  swears  he  will  let  the  cat  out 
of  the  bag  about  the  Middlesex  election.  So  far  from  offend- 
ing Harry,  I  should  not  wonder  to  see  him  aid  de  camp  to 
the  king,  and,  in  a  little  time,  commander  in  chief. 

Whenever  you  want  a  divorce,  you  need  only  leave  your 
spouse  alone  for  an  hour  or  two  with  ***  ****#*.  When 
he  performed  the  office  of  father  to  Poll  Davis,  and  gave  her 
to  his  infatuated  friend,  he  contrived  to  send  the  young  man 
upon  a  fool's  errand,  and  that  very  night  consummated  with 
her  himself.  You,  I  know,  Sir,  will  never  go  upon  a  fool's  er- 
rand, and  I  suppose  it  may  be  equally  certain  that  your  papa, 
if  he  had  an  opportunity,  would  not  ******  **  **  **. 

CUMBRIENSIS*. 

*  This  letter  is  acknowledged  by  ]\  •  i  crs  in  his  private  correspondence, 
No.  43.  Edi  i. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  447 


LETTER  CIII. 


TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC  ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  19  November,  1771. 

I  have  great  faith  in  Junius,  and  wish  the  friends  of  the 
cause  would  leave  Lord  Mansfield  entirely  to  his  care*.  It 
is  not  fair  to  anticipate  his  arguments,  or  to  run  down  the 
game,  which  he  has  started.  Junius,  I  dare  say,  has  it  as 
much  at  heart  to  sacrifice  Mansfield,  with  his  own  pen,  as 
Achilles  had  to  prevent  any  other  of  the  Grecian  army  from 
killing  Hector.  The  passage  I  allude  to  is  one  of  the  finest 
in  the  Iliad. 

"  Anoint  o    eivtttvi  kk^kIi  0105    A%t\tevg 

Ov¥  UK    iftlVUt   lTt\  "Ex}o£t  ZTIK£K  Z'lXlfAVCt' 

M/jt<s  xiSo?  «go/7«  SkXuv,  a  £s  Ssulego;  thOot. '  22  B.  1.  205. 

Divine  Achilles,  lest  some  Greek's  advance 
Should  snatch  the  glory  from  his  lifted  lance, 
Signed  to  the  troops,  to  yield  Yds  foe  the  way, 
And  leave  untouched  the  honours  of  the  day.— Pope. 

Yours, 

ANTI-BELIAL. 


LETTER  CIV. 

TO  THE   PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  4  December,  1771. 

Your  ingenious  correspondent,  Anti- Junius,  has  too  muoh 
wit  and  taste  to  be  easily  satisfied.  It  is  really  a  misfortune 
to  be  born  with  such  exquisitely  fine  feelings.  If,  now  that 
he  is  well  fed  and  clothed,  he  cannot  endure  the  severity  of 
a  southern  breeze,  what  would  become  of  him  upon  his  na- 
tive mountains?  Junius  can  never  write  to  please  him. — If 
he  receives  the  least  mention  of  past  enormities,  what  is  it 
but  "  cold  scraps,  baked  meats, political  fiddling,  and  the  voice 
of  the  charmer!"  hashed  mutton,  and  Dutch  music  with  a 

*  A  great  number  of  letters  appeared  in  support  of  the  doctrine  main- 
tained by  Jxtnius  on  the  subject  of  the  bailment  of  E  vie.  Edit. 


448  MISCELLANEOUS 

vengeance! — If,  on  the  contrary,  he  lays  any  new  villanies 
before  the  public,  then,  one  and  all,  the  hungry  pack  open 
upon  him  at  once: — *•'  Here's  invention  for  you! — What  an 
abominable  liar! — Why  does  he  not  stick  to  his  facts! — Does 
he  think  us  such  idiots  as  to  swalloxv  wit  for  truth!"  In  short, 
Sir,  the  Scotch  have  strange,  qualmish  stomachs; — it  is  not 
in  the  art  of  cookery  to  please  them.  Nothing  will  go  down 
but  oatmeal  and  brimstone. 

Anti- Junius  is  not  so  explicit  as  I  could  wish.  1.  What 
intercourse  was  that  between  Lord  Irnham  and  his  daughter, 
which  he  says  has  been  so  long  interrupted?  I  mean  no  of- 
fence to  the  lady,  but  really  the  word  intercourse  is  a  little 
equivocal. — 2.  What  was  that  purpose,  for  which  Sir  James 
Lowther's  grant  was  obtained,  and  which,  Anti-Junius  says, 
has  been  long  since  defeated? — 3.  Who  does  he  mean  by  a 
man  ever  burthensome  to  every  administration?  I  hope  he  does 
not  mean  the  Duke  of  Grafton's  friend  Sir  James  Lowther, 
or  at  least  that  he  does  not  give  the  baronet  this  pretty  cha- 
racter by  order  of  the  Duke  of  Grafton. 

After  all,  I  really  think  that  Junius,  called  upon  as  he  is 
by  so  able  an  antagonist,  cannot  do  less  than  discover  him- 
self. He  must  be  woefully  given  to  suspicion,  if  he  has  the 
least  doubt  of  the  tender  mercy  of  the  Scotch,  or  of  the  for- 
giving piety  of  St.  James's. 

JUNIPER*. 

*  The  following  are  the  passages  in  Anti-Juniw's  answer  to  Junius, 
Letter  lxvii.  to  which  a  reply  is  more  particularly  given  in  the  above. 

"  Had  Junius  a  single  friend  in  the  world  whom  he  dared  trust  or  con- 
sult, his  performance  of  yesterday,  so  uninstructive  to  your  readers,  so 
fatal  to  his  reputation,  would  surely  have  never  found  its  way  to  the  press. 
His  invective  has  neither  novelty  nor  variety  to  recommend  it;  the  public 
palate  mii9t  nauseate  at  the  insipiditj'  of  his  repeated  abuse,  and  loath  the 
repast  winch  his  miserable  thrift  has  attempted  to  furnish  forth  from  the 
cold  scraps  and  baked  meats  of  his  former  scurrilous  entertainments.  Iu 
vain  does  this  political  fiddler  labour  for  the  public  attention,  by  thrum- 
ming the  worn  out  strings  of  Middlesex  election,  Whittlebury  timber, 
Hine's  patent,  and  the  long-forgotten  rule  made  absolute  against  the  long- 
forgotten  Vaughan.  The  voice  of  the  charmer  himself  can  no  longer  charm 
with  these  sounds;  these  chords  so  repeatedly  struck  fall  flat,  even  upon 
the  ear  of  envy  itself." 

*  »  *  *  * 

"  With 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  449 


LETTER  CV. 

TO  LORD  BARRINGTON. 
My  Lord,  28  January,  1772. 

It  is  unlucky  for  the  army  that  you  should  be  so  thorough- 
ly convinced  as  you  are  how  extremely  low  you  stand  in 
their  opinion.  The  consciousness  that  you  are  despised  and 
detested  by  every  individual  in  it,  from  the  drummer  (whose 
discipline  might  be  of  service  to  you)  to  the  general  officer, 
makes  you  desperate  about  your  conduct  and  character.  You 
think  that  you  are  arrived  at  a  state  of  security,  and  that, 
being  plunged  to  the  very  heels  in  infamy,  the  dipping  has 
made  you  invulnerable.  There  is  no  other  way  to  account  for 
your  late  frantic  resolution  of  appointing  Tony  Shammy  your 
deputy-secretary  at  war. — Yet  I  am  far  from  meaning  to  im- 
peach his  character  as  a  broker.  In  that  line  he  was  qualified 
to  get  forward  bv  his  industry,  birth,  education,  and  accom- 
plishments. I  make  no  sort  of  doubt  of  his  cutting  a  mighty 

"  With  the  recriminating  malice  of  antiquated  virginity,  he  endeavours 
to  sully  the  daughter's  innocence  with  the  father's  crimes,  suppressing  a 
well-known  circumstance,  viz.  that  all  intercourse  between  that  father 
and  that  daughter  has  long  been  interrupted." 

*  *  *  *  * 

"  Sir  James  Lowther's  nonsuit  is  in  the  eye  of  the  heaven-reading 
Junius  another  visible  operation  of  retribution, — not  on  the  king  indeed: 
he  does  not  seem  to  be  affected  by  it,  any  farther  than  as  it  has  introduced 
the  parenthesis  of  the  Luttrell  alliance — but  on  the  poor  Duke  of  Grafton, 
whose  days  are  anxious,  and  whose  nights  are  sleepless,  because  a  grant, 
obtained  to  serve  a  purpose  long  since  defeated,  and  to  gratify  the  impor- 
tunities of  a  man  ever  burthensome  to  every  administration,  is  adjudged  inva- 
lid; for  t!iis  the  Duke  of  Grafton  wears  the  dismal  countenance  of  solitary 
sorrow;  for  this  does  he  fruitlessly  look  round  for  consolations;  for  tnis 
does  Mr.  Bradshaw  shed  the  April  showers  of  lambent  lamentation. 
Surely  Junils  thinks  to  mislead  reason  and  annihilate  common-sense, 
by  the  use  of  a  few  ridiculous,  half-meaning  epithets." 

*  *      -       *  *  * 

"  If  you  are  really  the  honest  state -gardener  you  would  be  thought,  and 
not  the  malicious,  discontented  impostor  I  think  you,  away  with  your 
shuffling,  well-worded  delays;  the  noisome  plant  that  has  brought  forth 
such  bitter  fruit,  is  surely  now  ripe  enough  to  be  plucked."  Edit. 

Vol.  II.  3  L 


Ci 


450  MISCELLANEOUS 

pretty  figure  at  Jonathan's.  To  this  hour  among  bulls  and 
bears  his  name  is  mentioned  with  respect.  Even  Israelite 
in  the  alley  is  in  raptures.  What,  our  old  friend,  little  Sham- 
my!— Ay,  he  was  always  a  tight,  active  little  fellow,  and 
would wrangle  for  an  eighth  as  if  he  had  been  born  in  "Jeru- 
salem. Who'd  hd*  thought  it.'  Well,  we  may  now  look  out  for 
the  rebuilding  of  the  temple. — My  lord,  if  I  remember  right, 
you  are  partial  to  the  spawn  of  Jonathan's.  Witness  the  care 
you  took  to  provide  for  Mr.  Delafontaine  in  the  military  de- 
partment. He  limped  a  little  when  he  left  the  alley*,  but 
your  lordship  soon  set  him  upon  his  legs  again. — This  last 
resolution  however  approaches  to  madness.  Your  cream- 
coloured  Mercuryf  has  over-reached  both  you  and  himself; 
1^  and  remember  what  I  seriously  tell  you,  this  measure  will, 
&*Wt*  sooner  or  later,  be  the  cause,  not  of  your  disgrace, — (that 
affair's  settled)  but  of  your  ruin.  What  daemon  possessed 
you  to  place  a  little  gambling  broker  at  the  head  of  the  war- 
office,  and  in  a  post  of  so  much  rank  and  confidence,  as  that 
of  deputy  to  the  secretary  at  war? — (I  speak  of  your  office, 
not  of  your  person.) — Do  you  think  that  his  having  been 
useful  in  certain  practices  to  Lord  Sandwich  gives  any  great 
relief  to  his  character,  or  raises  him  in  point  of  rank?  My 
lord,  the  rest  of  the  world  laugh  at  your  choice;  but  we  sol- 
diers feel  it  as  an  indignity  to  the  whole  army,  and  be  assur- 
ed we  shall  resent  it  accordingly.— Not  that  I  think  you  pay 
much  regard  to  the  sensations  of  any  thing  under  the  degree 
of  a  general  officer,  and  even  that  rank  you  have  publicly 
stigmatised  in  rhe  most  opprobrious  terms.  Yet  still  some 
of  them,  though  in  your  wise  opinion  not  qualified  to  com- 
mand, are  entitled  o  respect,  Let  us  suppose  a  case,  which 
every  man  acquainted  with  the  war-office  will  admit  to  be 

*  The  transactions  here  referred  to  in  respect  to  Delafontaine  and  Cha- 
mier,  or  Shammy  as  he  w;*s  called  in  the  alley,  are  more  particularly  no- 
ticed in  the  Private  Letters,  No.  52.  and  56.  Chamier  was  successor  in 
the  war-office  to  Mr.  D'Oyly,  who  was  discarded  to  make  room  for  him. 

-J-  T.  Bradsh.tw,  whose  absurd  elevation  lias  been  already  noticed,  and 
will  occasionally  be  found  observed  upon  again.  Edit. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  451 

very  probable.  Suppose  a  lieutenant-general,  who  perhaps 
may  be  a  peer,  or  a  member  of  the  House  of  Commons,  does 
you  the  honour  to  wait  upon  you  for  instructions  relative  to 
his  regiment.  After  explaining  yourself  to  him  with  your 
usual  accuracy  and  decision,  you  naturally  refer  him  to  your 
deputy  for  the  detail  of  the  business.  My  dear  general,  Pm 
prodigiously  hurried. — But  do  me  the  favour  to  go  to  Mr. 
Shammy; — go  to  little  Waddlewell; — go  to  my  duckling; — go 
to  little  three  per  cents  reduced; — you'll  find  him  a  mere  scrip 
of  a  secretary;  an  omnium  of  all  that's  genteel; — the  activity 

of  a  broker; — the  politeness  of  a  hairdresser; — the the 

the  &c. 

Our  general  officer  we  may  presume  being  curious  to  see 
this  wonderful  Girgishite,  the  following  dialogue  passes  be- 
tween them. 

Lieut.  Gen.  Sir,  the  secretary  at  war  refers  me  to  you  for 
an  account  of  what  was  done — 

Waddlewell.  Done,  Sir! — Closed  at  three-eights! — Looked 
fl  it  I  must  own; — but  to-morrow,  my  dear  Sir,  I  hope  to 
see  a  more  lively  appearance. 

Lieut.  Gen.  Sir,  I  speak  of  the  non-effective  fund. 

Waddlexvell.  Fund,  my  dear  Sir!  In  what  fund  would  you 
wish  to  be  concerned? — Speak  freely — You  may  confide  in 
your  humble  servant; — I'm  all  discretion. 

Lieut.  Gen.  Sir,  I  really  don't  understand  you.  Lord  Bar- 
rington  says  that  my  regiment  may  possibly  be  thought  of 
for  India — 

Waddlewell.  India,  my  dear  Sir! — strange  fluctuation:— 
from  fourteen  and  an  half  to  twenty-two,  never  stood  a  mo- 
ment:— but  ended  cheerful; — no  mortal  can  account  for  it. 

Lieut.  Gen. — Damn  your  stocks,  Sir,  tell  me  whether  the 
commission — 

Waddlewell.  As  for  commission,  my  dear  Sir,  I'll  venture 
to  say  that  no  gentleman  in  the  alley  does  business  upon 
easier  terms.  I  never  take  less  than  an  eighth,  except  from 
Lord  Sandwich  and  my  brother-in-law,  but  they  deal  largely, 
and  you  must  be  sensible,  my  dear  Sir,  that  when  the  com- 


452  MISCELLANEOUS 

mission  is  extensive,  it  may  be  worth  a  broker's  while  to  con- 
tent himself  with  a  sixteenth. 

The  general  officer,  at  last,  fatigued  with  such  extrava- 
gance, quits  the  room  in  disgust,  and  leaves  the  intoxicated 
broker  to  settle  his  accounts  by  himself. 

After  such  a  scene  as  this,  do  you  think  that  any  man  of 
rank  or  consequence  in  the  army  will  ever  apply  to  you  or 
your  deputy  again? — Will  any  officer  of  rank  condescend  to 
receive  orders  from  a  little,  whiffling  broker,  to  whom  he 
ma\  formerly  perhaps  have  given  half-a-crown  for  negotia- 
ting an  hundred  pound  stock,  or  sixpence  for  a  lottery  ticket. 
—My  lord,  without  a  jest,  it  is  indecent,  it  is  odious,  it  is 
preposterous. — Our  gracious  master,  it  is  said,  reads  the 
newspapers.  If  he  does,  he  shall  know  minutely  in  what 
manner  you  treat  his  faithful  army.  This  is  the  first  of  six- 
teen letters  addressed  to  your  lordship,  which  are  ready  for 
the  press,  and  shall  appear  as  fast  as  it  suits  the  printer's  con- 
venience. 

VETERAN. 


LETTER  CVI. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC  ADVERTISER. 

Sir,  6  Feb.  1772. 

There  is  one  general,  easy  way  of  answering  Junius, 
which  his  opponents  have  constantly  had  recourse  to  since 
he  first  began  to  write,  or  they  to  answer  him.  They  either 
misquote  his  words  and  mistake  his  propositions,  or  thev  la- 
boriously employ  themselves  in  refuting  doctrines  which  he 
has  not  maintained,  or  maintaining  others  which  he  has  not 
disputed*.— This  has  been  particularly  their  practice  in  all 
the  argument  about  the  bailment  of  Eyre. 

1°.  Junius  has  never  affirmed  that  the  judges  of  the  court 
of  King's  Bench  were  named  or  specially  comprehended  in 

•  This  letter  is  more  particularly  designed  as  a  reply  to  a  very  long-  and 
elaborate  one  published  the  preceding  day  in  the  Public  Advertiser,  .md 
addressed  Justinius  to  Jrxirs  It  is  certainly  well  written,  but  unques- 
tionably labours  under  the  defects  here  complained  of.  Edit. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  453 

the  statute  of  Westminster,  or  any  other  of  the  old  statutes 
preceding  the  Habeas  Corpus  act.  The  design  of  those  quo- 
tations was  to  prove  tht*  meaning  and  intention  of  the  legis- 
lature with  respect  to  the  right  of  bailing  a  person  under  the 
circumstances  of  Mr.  Eyre.  This  meaning  and  intention, 
once  clearlv  proved,  he  affirms,  is  the  direction  and  land- 
mark to  the  judge  in  the  exercise  of  that  discretionary  power 
which  the  law  has  left  with  him. 

2°.  Junius  has  not  denied  that  the  judges  of  the  court  of 
King's  Bench  have  a  discretionary  power  to  bail  in  all  cases, 
according  to  the  circumstances  of  the  cases.  But  does  it  fol- 
low that  they  may  legally  bail  when  no  circumstances  what- 
soever are  alleged  on  one  side  to  alleviate  the  force  of  the 
positive  charge  of  felony  made  on  the  other? — If  it  does, 
their  power  of  bailing  is  arbitrary,  not  discretionary. — Dis- 
cretion implies  consideration;  but  if  no  allegations  whatso- 
ever be  made  in  behalf  of  the  prisoner,  they  have  then  no- 
thing to  consider.  The  warrant  of  commitment  expresses  a 
positive  charge  of  felony.  If  nothing  be  alleged  in  behalf 
of  the  prisoner,  the  judge  has  then  no  subject,  whereupon 
to  exercise  his  discretion.  He  has  no  choice.  He  must  re- 
mand the  prisoner. 

3Q.  Junius  does  not  insist  upon  the  case  of  Eyre  so  much 
on  the  score  of  its  own  enormity  as  because  it  establishes  a 
dangerous  doctrine,  applicable  to  all  crimes  however  indis- 
putably proved,  and  gives  the  judges  an  arbitrary  power 
which  the  laws  never  meant  to  give  them.  As  to  Lord 
Mansfield,  it  is  probable  that  Junius  would  not  have  at- 
tacked him  in  the  manner  he  has  done  if  this  had  been  the 
only  instance  of  his  misconduct.  In  truth,  it  is  one  out  of  a 
multitude. 

I  beg  leave  to  conclude  with  asking  this  wicked  judge 
two  plain  questions: — 1°.  Is  there  or  is  there  not  anv  diffe- 
rence between  offences  bailable  and  offences  not  bailable;  and 
if  there  be,  what  is  it? — 2°.  When  the  legislature,  in  the 
Habeas  Corpus  act,  do,  specially  aud  by  name,  forbid  the 
judges  of  the  court  of  King's  Bench  to  proceed  to  the  bail- 
ment of  the  prisoner,  if  it  shall  appear  to  them  that  he  is 


454  MISCELLANEOUS 

committed  for  such  maiters  or  uffences,/or  the  which  by  the 
law  the  prisoner  is  not  bailable,  have  they  any  meaning,  or 
have  they  none  at  all?  Let  it  be  remembered  that  Junius 
never  pretends  to  be  a  better  lawyer  than  Lord  Mansfield. 
On  the  contrary,  he  takes  every  opportunity  to  acknowledge 
the  superior  learning  and  abilities  of  that  wicked  judge; 
and  in  the  present  instance  particularly  insists,  not  that  he 
was  ignorant  of  the  law,  but  that  he  sinned  against  his  own 
certain  knowledge  and  conviction. 

ANTI-BELIAL. 


LETTER  CVII. 

TO  LORD  BARRINGTON. 
NUMBER  II. 
My  Lor»,  17  February,  1772. 

In  my  last  letter  I  only  meant  to  be  jocular.  An  essay  so 
replete  with  good  humour  could  not  possibly  give  offence. 
You  are  no  enemy  to  a  jest,  or  at  least  you  would  be  thought 
callous  to  reproach.  You  profess  a  most  stoical  indifference 
about  the  opinion  of  the  world,  and,  above  all  things,  make 
it  your  boast  that  you  can  set  the  newspapers  at  defiance. 
No  man  indeed  has  received  a  greater  share  of  correction 
in  this  way,  or  profited  less  by  it,  than  your  lordship.  But 
we  know  you  better.  You  have  one  defect  less  than  you  pre- 
tend to.  You  are  not  insensible  of  the  scorn  and  hatred  of 
the  world,  though  you  take  no  care  to  avoid  it. — When  the 
bloody  Barrington,  that  silken,  fawning  courtier  at  St. 
James's, — that  stern  and  insolent  minister  at  the  war-office, 
is  pointed  out  to  universal  contempt  and  detestation,  you 
smile,  indeed,  but  the  last  agonies  of  the  hysteric  passion 
are  painted  in  your  countenance.  Your  cheek  betrays  what 
passes  within  you,  and  your  whole  frame  is  in  convulsions. 
— I  now  mean  to  be  serious  with  you,  but  not  to  waste  my 
time  in  proving  that  you  are  an  enemy  to  the  laws  and  li- 
beitiesof  this  country.  The  very  name  of  Barrington  im- 
plies every  thing  that  is  mean,  cruel,  false,  and  contemptible. 
The  Duke  of  Newcastle's  livery  was  the  first  habit  you  put 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  455 

on. — What  an  indefatigable  courtier  at  his  levee! — What  an 
assiduous  parasite  at  his  table! — Was  there  a  dirty  job  to  be 
performed, — away  went  Barrington. — Was  a  message  to  be 
carried, — Who  waits  there? — My  Lord  Barrington.  After 
ruining  that  brave  and  worthy  man  General  Fovvke*  under 
the  auspices  of  the  Duke  of  Newcastle,  who  saved  you  from 
destruction,  you  deserted  to  Mr.  Pitt  the  moment  he  came 
into  power.  Before  the  late  king's  death  you  secured  a  foot- 
ing at  Carlton-housej  and  were  prepared  to  abandon  your 
last  patron,  the  moment  Lord  Bute  assumed  the  reins  of 
government. — From  Lord  Bute  to  Mr.  Grenville  there  was 
an  easy  transfer  of  your  affections.  You  are  the  common 
friend  of  all  ministers,  but  it  is  not  in  your  policy  to  engage 
in  overt  acts  of  hostility  against  those,  who  may  perhaps  be 
next  in  turn  to  patronise  Lord  Barrington.  My  dear  lord,  or 
my  dear  Sir,  are  titles  with  which  you  have  occasionally  ad- 
dressed every  man  who  evtr  had  an  office,  or  the  chance  of 
an  office  in  this  kingdom.  Even  the  proscribed  John  Wilkes, 
the  moment  he  was  sheriff,  had  a  claim  upon  your  polite- 
ness. Your  character  was  a  little  battered  by  the  frequency 
of  your  political  amours,  when  Lord  Rockingham  took  you 
into  keeping. — While  you  existed  by  his  protection,  you  in- 
trigued with  the  Duke  of  Grafton. — Another  change  suc- 
ceeded.— Your  mind  was  open  to  new  lights,  and,  without  a 
doubt,  Lord  Chatham  was  the  only  man  in  the  kingdom  Jit  to 
govern  a  great  empire. — Still  however  your  opinions  of  men 
and  things  were  not  perfectly  settled.  When  the  Duke  of 
Grafton  took  the  lead,  the  pliant  Barrington  of  course  saw 
things  in  a  different  point  of  view.  There  is  nothing  in  your 
attachments  that  savour  of  obstinacy. — When  his  grace  re- 

*  General  Fowke,  who  was  then  stationed  at  Gibraltar,  received  in- 
structions in  several  letters  from  Lord  Barrington,  shortly  after  his  ap- 
pointment to  be  secretary  at  war  in  1760,  under  the  Duke  of  Newcastle's 
administration,  which  produced  measures  that  had  nearly  effected  the 
loss  of  that  important  post.  Lord  Barring-ton,  on  perceiving  the  blunder 
he  had  committed,  most  dangerously  prevailed  on  General  Fowke  to  take 
the  chief  blame  upon  himselt,  under  <i  promise  of  indemnification.  The 
result  was  that  Fowke  was  ruined,  and  Barrington  liberated.  Epit. 


456  MISCELLANEOUS 

signed,  you  soon  discovered  that  to  establish  government 
upon  a  solid  footing  the  minister's  presence  was  indispensa- 
ble in  the  House  of  Commons. — Lord  North  was  then  the 
man  after  your  lordship's  own  heart. — In  your  ideas,  the 
first  lord  of  the  treasury  for  the  ti*ne  being  is  always  perfect: 
-—but  every  change  is  for  the  better. — With  all  your  profes- 
sions of  attachment  to  this  temporary  minister,  I  tell  him, 
and  I  tell  the  public,  that  at  this  very  hour  you  are  caballing 
with  the  Duke  of  Grafton  and  the  Bedford's  to  obtain  the 
recall  of  Lord  Townshend,  and  to  drive  Lord  North  from 
the  treasury. — But  they  all  know  you. — In  the  inventory  of 
the  discarded  minister's  effects,  Lord  Barrington  is  always 
set  down  as  a  fixture. 

By  garbling  and  new  modelling  the  war-office,  you  think 
you  have  reduced  the  army  to  subjection. — Walk  in  gentle- 
*  men!  Business  done  by  Chamier  and  Co. — To  make  your  of- 
fice complete,  you  want  nothing  now,  but  a  paper  lanthorn 
at  the  door,  and  the  scheme  of  a  lottery  pasted  upon  the  win- 
dow.— With  all  your  folly  and  obstinacy,  I  am  at  a  loss  to 
conceive  what  countenance  you  assumed,  when  you  told 
your  royal  master,  that  you  had  taken  a  little  Frenchified 
broker  from  'Change  Alley,  to  intrust  with  the  management 
of  all  the  affairs  of  his  army. — Did  the  following  dialogue 
leave  no  impression  upon  your  disordered  imagination?  You 
know  where  it  passed. 

K. — Pray,  my  lord,  whom  have  you  appointed  to  succeed 
Mr.  D'Oyly? 

B. — Please  your  M— — ,  I  believe  I  have  made  a  choice, 
that  will  be  highly  acceptable  to  the  public  and  to  the  army. 

K.—Who  is  it? 

B. — Sire,  it  s'appelle  Ragosin.  Born  and  educated  in 
'Change  Alley,  he  glories  in  the  name  of  broker;  and,  to  say 
nothing  of  Lord  Sandwich's  friendship,  I  can  assure  your 
M— — ,  he  has  always  kept  the  best  company  at  Jonathan's. 

K. — My  lord,  I  never  interfere  in  these  matters.  But  I 
cannot  help  telling  your  lordship,  that  you  might  have  con- 
sulted my  honour  and  the  credit  of  my  army  a  little  better. 
Your  appointment  of  so  mean  a  person,  though  he  may  be  a 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  457 

very  honest  man  in  the  mystery  he  was  bred  to,  casts  a  re- 
flection upon  me,  and  is  an  insult  to  the  army.  At  all  events, 
I  desire  it  may  be  understood  that  I  have  no  concern  in  this 
ill-judged,  indecent  measure,  and  that  I  do  not  approve  of  it. 
I  suppose,  my  lord,  you  thought  this  conversation  might" 
be  sunk  upon  the  public.  It  does  honour  to  his  Majesty,  and" 
therefore  you  concealed  it. — In  my  next  I  propose  to  shew 
what  a  faithful  friend  you  have  been  to  the  army,  particularly 
to  old  worn  out  officers. 

VETERAN. 


LETTER  CVIII. 

TO  LORD  BARRINGTOK. 
NUMBER  III. 

My  Lord,  27  February,  1772. 

The  army  now,  according  to  your  own  account  of  the 
matter,  is  under  a  very  creditable  sort  of  direction.  If  we 
may  rely  upon  the  secretary  at  war's  opinion,  solemnly  and 
deliberately  expressed  before  the  House  of  Commons,  there 
is  not  a  single  man  in  the  profession,  who  is  in  any  shape 
qualified  for  commander  in  chief;  at  least  none,  whom  you 
would  think  it  safe  to  recommend  to  his  Majesty.  If  your 
judgment  upon  this  subject  had  been  better  founded  than  it 
is,  I  do  not  understand  that  a  secretary  at  war  has  any  right 
to  pass  so  disgraceful  and  precipitate  a  sentence  upon  so 
many  of  his  superiors.  Believe  me,  my  good  lord,  there  is 
not  on^  of  those  officers,  whom  you  dared  to  stigmatise  in 
that  infamous  manner,  who  is  not  qualified  to  be  your  master 
in  thwart  military,  notwithstanding  all  the  experience  you 
got  in  St.  George's  Fields,  when  you  urged  and  exhorted  the 
guards  to  embrue  their  hands  in  the  blood  of  their  fellow- 
subjects. — While  that  bloody  scene  was  acting,  where  was 
the  gentle  Barrington? — Was  he  sighing  at  the  feet  of  anti- 
quated beauty? — Was  he  dreaming  over  the  loo-table,  or  was 
he  more  innocently  employed  in  combing  her  ladyship's 
lap-dog? — But,  my  lord,  when  you  paid  that  pretty  compli- 
ment to  the  body  of  general  officers,  had  you  no  particular 

Vol.  II.  3  M 


458  MISCELLANEOUS 

apologies  to  make  to  General  Conway,  to  Lord  Albemarle, 
or  to  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst? — Did  General  Harvey  deserve 
nothing  better  of  you,  than  a  ridiculous  nickname,  which, 
like  Lord  Mansfield's  secret,  he  must  carry  with  him  to  his 
grave? — In  lieu  of  a  commander  in  chief,  you  have  advised 
'the  king  to  put  the  army  into  commission. — A  graduate  in 
physic,  an  old  woman,  and  a  broker  from  ''Change  Alley. — 
The  doctor  prescribes,— the  old  gentlewoman  administers,— 
and  little  Syringe,  the  apothecary,  stands  by  the  glisterpipe. 
■ — This,  you  tell  the  king,  is  making  himself  commander  in 
chief,  and  the  surest  way  to  preserve  the  affections  of  the 
army. — It  may  be  so,  my  lord,  but  I  see  no  right  you  had  to 
give  the  nickname  of  Doctor  Radclijfe  to  so  brave  a  man  as 
General  Harvey.  Though  his  natural  sweetness  of  temper 
may  induce  him  to  pass  it  by,  it  must  always  be  mortifying 
to  a  brave  adjutant-general,  when  he  marches  into  St.  James's 
coffee-house,  to  hear  the  ensigns  of  the  guards  whisper  to  one 
another — here  comes  the  doctor; — or  when  he  marches  out, 
there  goes  the  doctor. — I  cme  say,  he  has  furnished  work 
enough  for  the  surgeons;  but,  until  you  so  politely  pointed  it 
out,  I  cannot  say  I  ever  saw  any  thing  medical  in  his  ap- 
pearance. V^N 

After  treating  the  most  powerful  people_\nThe\.army  with 
so  much  unprovoked  insolence,  ft  is  not  to  be  supposed  that 
field-officers,  captains,  and  subalterns  have  any  chance  of 
common  justice  at  your  hands.  But  that  matter  shall  be  the 
subject  of  another  letter,  and  every  letter  shall  be  concluded 
with  a  conversation  piece.  The  following  dialogue*is  not 
imaginary. 

SCENE. WAR-OFFICE.  s  • 

Enter  Barrington,  meeting  Waddlewell. 

B. — My  dear  friend,  you  look  charmingly  this  morning. 

W. — My  dearest  lord — the  sight  of  your  lordship — ! — 
Here  they  embrace,  WaddleweWs  thoughts  being  too  big  for 
utterance* 

B. — When  did  you  see  my  Pylades,  our  dear  Bradshaiv? 

W. — Ay,  my  lord — there  is  a  friend  indeed. — Firmness 
without  resistance, — sincerity  without  contradiction, — and 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  45y 

the  milky  way  painted  in  his  countenance. — If  I  could  ever 
reconcile  my  mind  to  the  distracting  prospect  of  losing  your 
lordship,  where  else  should  we  look  for  a  successor! — But 
that  event,  I  hope,  is  at  a  great  distance.  Late,  very  late.  Oh 
may  he  rule  us! 

B. — Ay  my  dearest  Waddlewell,  but  we  are  sadly  abused, 
notwithstanding  all  our  virtues. 

W. — Merit,  my  dear  lord,  merit  will  for  ever  excite  en- 
mity.—-I  found  it  so  in  the  alley.  I  never  made  a  lucky  hit 
in  my  life,  that  it  did  not  set  all  Jonathan's  in  an  uproar.  If 
an  idea  succeeded,  my  best  friends  turned  against  me,  Judas 
and  Levi,  Moses  and  Issachar. — People  with  whom  I  have 
been  connected  by  the  tenderest  ties, — could  not  endure 
the  sight  of  my  prosperity.  The  ten  tribes  of  Israel  united 
to  destroy  me,  and  for  two  years  together  were  malicious 
enough  to  call  me  the  lucky  little  Benjamin.  Friendship, 
among  the  best  of  men,  is  little  better  than  a  name. 

B. — Why,  my  dear  deputy,  it  is  not  that  I  regard  the  con- 
tempt and  hatred  of  all  mankind. — I  never  knew  it  otherwise. 
No  man's  patience  has  been  better  exercised.  But  what  if 
the  king  should  hear  of  it. — 

TV. — Ay,  there's  the  rub! 

B. — If  the  best  of  princes,  who  pretends  to  be  his  own 
commander  in  chief,  should  hear  that  the  name  of  Barring- 
ton  is  opprobrious  in  the  army; — that  even  he  himself  is  not 
spared  for  supporting  me — 

W. — Weeping. — Oh  fatal  day! — Compared  with  this,  what 
is  a  riscounter! — Alas,  my  dearest  lord,  you  have  unmanned 
your  deputy. — I  feel  myself  already  at  ten  per  cent,  dis- 
count, and  never  shall  be  at.  par  again. 

B. — Something  must  be  done. — Let  us  consider. — 

IV. — Ay,  my  dear  lord,  for  heaven's  sake,  let  us  speculate. 
Exeunt,  disputing  about  precedence. 
VETERAN. 


4G0  MISCELLANEOUS 


LETTER  CIX. 

•  TO  LORD  BARRINGTOK. 

NUMBER  IV. 

My  Lord,  10  March,  1772. 

I  am  at  a  loss  for  words  to  express  my  acknowledgment 
of  the  signal  honour  you  have  done  me.  One  of  the  princi- 
pal purposes  of  these  addresses,  was  to  engage  you  in  a  re- 
gular, public  correspondence.  You  very  justly  thought  it 
unnecessary  to  sign  your  name  to  this  last,  elegant  per- 
formance. Novalis*  answers  as  well  as  Barrington.  We  know 
you  by  your  style.  This  is  not  the  first  of  your  epistles,  that 
has  been  submitted  to  the  criticism  of  the  public.  While 
yet,  like  poor  Waddlewell,  you  were  young  in  office,  your 
letters  to  General  Fowke  were  considered  as  the  standard 
of  perspicuitvf.  You  are  now  very  old  in  office,  and  continue 
to  write  exactly  as  you  did  in  your  infancy.  I  do  not  won- 
der that  the  extremes  of  your  capacity  should  meet  in  the 
same  point,  but  I  should  be  glad  to  know  at  what  period 
you  reckoned  yourself  in  the  prime  and  vigour  of  your  offi- 
cial understanding. — Was  it  when  you  signified  to  the  third 
regiment  of  guards  his  Majesty's  gratitude  and  your  own, 
for  the  alacrity  in  butchering  their  innocent  fellow  subjects 
in  St.  George's  Fields:}:? — Was  it  when  you  informed  the 
House  of  Commons,  that  you  and  the  doctor  were  equivalent 
to  a  commander  in  chief? — Or  when  you  declared  that  there 
was  not  a  man  in  the  army  fit  to  be  trusted  with  the  com- 
mand of  it? — Or  when  you  established  that  wise  and  humane 
regulation  that  no  officer,  let  his  age  and  infirmities  be  ever 
so  great,  and  his  services  ever  so  distinguished,  should  be 
suffered  to  sell  out,  unless  he  had  bought  all  his  former 

*  The  name  subscribed  by  a  writer  who  undertook  the  defence  of  Lord 
Barrington;  and  whom  our  author,  according  to  his  usual  custom,  here 
identifies  with  the  noble  earl.  Edit. 

■J-  See  note  to  Letter  cvn.  Edit. 

%  See  noU  to  Miscellaneous  Letters,  No.  xxi  v.  ante  p.  229,  in  which  tlie  ' 
letter  here  alluded  to  is  inserted.  Edit. 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  461 

commissions? — Or  in  short  was  it  when  vou  dived  into 
'Jonathan's  for  a  deputy,  and  plucked  up  Waddleiuell  by  the 
locks?  When  you  answer  these  questions,  I  shall  be  ready 
to  meet  your  lordship  upon  that  ground,  on  which  you  think 
you  stand  the  firmest.  In  the  mean  time,  give  me  leave  to 
say  a  few  words  to  Novalis. 

You  are  pleased  to  observe  that  my  three  first  letters  are 
filled  with  low  scurrility  upon  hackneyed  topics  collected 
from  the  newspapers.  Have  a  little  patience,  my  dear  lord; — 
I  shall  soon  come  to  closer  quarters  with  you.  As  for  those 
dialogues,  which  you  are  pleased  to  say  have  neither  wit  nor 
humour  in  them,  I  can  only  observe  that  there  are  many 
scenes,  which  pass  off  tolerably  well  upon  the  stage,  and  yet 
will  not  bear  the  examination  of  the  closet.  You  and  Wad- 
dlewell  are  excellent  performers.  Between  a  courtier  and  a 
broker  words  are  the  smallest  part  of  the  conversation. 
Shrugs  and  smiles,  bows  and  grimaces,  the  condescension 
of  St.  James's,  and  the  pliant  politeness  of  'Change  Alley, 
stand  in  the  place  of  repartee,  and  fill  up  the  scene. 

You  intimate,  without  daring  directly  to  assert,  that  you 
did  not  fix  that  odious  stigma  upon  the  body  of  general  offi- 
cers. Have  you  forgot  the  time  when  you  attempted  the 
same  evasion  in  the  House  of  Commons,  and  forced  General 
Howard  to  rise  and  say  he  was  ashamed  of  you? — These 
mean,  dirty,  pitiful  tricks  are  fitter  for  Jonathan's  than  the 
war-office. 

Tou  have  more  experience  than  any  of  your  clerks,  and 
your  great  abilities  are  acknowledged  on  all  sides. — As  for 
your  experience,  we  all  know  how  much  your  conduct  has 
been  improved  by  it.  But  pray  who  informed  you  of  this 
universal  acknowledgment  of  your  abilities?  The  sycophants, 
whose  company  you  delight  in,  are  likely  enough  to  fill  you 
with  these  flattering  ideas.  But  if  you  were  wise  enough  to 
consult  the  good  opinion  of  the  world,  you  would  not  be  so 
eager  to  establish  the  credit  of  your  understanding.  The 
moment  you  arrive  at  the  character  of  a  man  of  sense  you 
are  undone.  You  must  then  relinquish  the  only  tolerable 


462  MISCELLANEOUS 

excuse  that  can  be  made  for  your  conduct. — It  is  really  un- 
kind of  you  to  distress  the  few  friends  you  have  left. 

To  your  lordship's  zeal  to  discover  and  patronise  latent 
merit,  the  public  is  indebted  for  the  services  of  Mr.  Brad- 
shaw. — Pray,  my  lord,  will  you  be  so  good  as  to  explain  to 
us,  of  what  nature  were  those  services,  which  he  first  ren- 
dered to  your  lordship? — Was  he  winged  like  a  messenger, 
or  stationary  like  a  centinel? 

"  Like  Maia's  son  he  stood 

And  shook  his  plumes;" 

videlicet  at  the  door  of  Lady -n's  cabinet. — His  zeal 

in  the  execution  of  this  honourable  office  promoted  him  to 
another  door,  where  he  also  stands  centry, 

"  Virgaque  levem  coercet 

Aurea  turbam." 

That  he  has  ably  served  the  state,  may  be  collected  from 
the  public  acknowledgments  the  ministry  have  made  him. 
Fifteen  hundred  pounds  a  year,  well  secured  to  himself  and 
his  family,  will  acquit  the  king  of  any  ingratitude  to  Mr. 
Bradshaw.  It  is  by  mere  accident  that  Sir  Edward  Hawke 
and  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst  are  no  better  provided  for. 

But  we  are  indebted  to  your  lordship  for  another  dis- 
covery of  merit  equally  latent  with  Mr.  Bradshaw's. — You 
have  a  phcenix  of  a  deputy,  though  yet  he  is  but  young  in  his 
nest. — He  has  hardly  had  time  to  clear  his  wings  from  the 
ashes  that  gave  him  birth. — This  too  was  your  lordship's 
apology  for  ruining  General  Fowke.  You  gave  it  in  evi- 
dence, that  you  had  been  but  four  months  in  office;  and  now 
you  tell  us  that  your  deputy  also  is  in  the  same  unfledged 
state  of  noviciate; — though  for  abilities  and  knowledge  of 
the  world,  neither  Jexv  nor  Gentile  can  come  up  to  him! 
For  shame,  my  Lord  Barrington,  send  this  whifHing  broker 
back  to  the  mystery  he  was  bred  in.  Though  an  infant  in  the 
war-office,  the  man  is  too  old  to  learn  a  new  trade. — At  this 
very  moment  they  are  calling  out  for  him  at  the  bar  of 
Jonathan's — Shammy! — Shammy! — Shammy! — The  house 
of  Israel  are  waiting  to  settle  their  last  account  with  him.—- 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  463 

During  his  absence  things  may  take  a  desperate  turn  in  the 
alley,  and  you  never  may  be  able  to  make  up  to  the  man 
what  he  has  lost  in  half-crowns  and  sixpences  already. 

VETERAN. 


LETTER  CX. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC   ADVERTISER. 
Sir,  23  March,  1772. 

I  desire  you  will  inform  the  public  that  the  worthy 
Lord  Barrington,  not  contented  with  having  driven  Mr. 
D'Oyly  out  of  the  war-office,  has  at  last  contrived  to  expel 
Mr.  Francis.*  His  lordship  will  never  rest  till  he  has 
cleared  his  office  of  every  gentleman  who  can  either  be 
serviceable  to  the  public,  or  whose  honour  and  integrity  are 
a  check  upon  his  own  dark  proceedings.  Men,  who  do  their 
duty  with  credit  and  ability,  are  not  proper  instruments  for 
Lord  Barrington  to  work  with. — He  must  have  a  broker 
from  'Change-Alley  for  his  deputy,  and  some  raw,  ignorant 
boy  for  his  first  clerk.  I  think  the  public  have  a  right 
to  call  upon  Mr.  D'Oyly  and  Mr.  Francis  to  declare  their 
reasons  for  quitting  the  war-office.  Men  of  their  unblemish- 
ed character  do  not  resign  lucrative  employments  without 
some  sufficient  reasons.  The  conduct  of  these  gentlemen 
has  always  been  approved  of,  and  I  know  that  they  stand 
as  well  in  the  esteem  of  the  army,  as  any  persons  in  their 
station  ever  did.  What  then  can  be  the  cause  that  the  public 
and  the  army  should  be  deprived  of  their  service? — There 
must  certainly  be  something  about  Lord  Barrington  which 
every  honest  man  dreads  and  detests.  Or  is  it  that  they 
cannot  be  brought  to  connive  at  his  jobs  and  underhand 
dealings? — They  have  too  much  honour,  I  suppose,  to  do 
certain  business  by  commission. — They  have  not  been  edu- 
cated in  the  conversation  of  Jews  and  gamblers; — they  have 

*  Francis,  now  Sir  Philip,  and  D'Oyly  were  chief  clerks  in  the  war- 
effice:  the  displacement  of  D'Oyly  to  make  room  for  Chamier  has  been 
already  noticed  in  letter  cv.  edit. 


464  MISCELLANEOUS 

had  no  experience  at  Jonathan's; — they  know  nothing  of  the 
stocks;  and  therefore  Lord  Barrington  drives  them  out  of 
the  war-office. — The  army  indeed  is  come  to  a  fine  pass, 
with  a  gambling  broker  at  the  head  of  it! — What  signifies 
ability,  or  integrity,  or  practice,  or  experience  in  business. 
Lord  Barrington  feels  himself  uneasy  while  men  with  such 
qualifications  are  about  him.  He  wants  nothing  in  his  office 
but  ignorance,  impudence,  pertness,  and  servility.  Of  these 
commodities  he  has  laid  in  a  plentiful  stock,  that  ought  to 
last  him  as  long  as  he  is  secretary  at  war.  Again,  I  wish 
that  Mr.  Francis  and  Mr.  D'Oyly  would  give  the  public 
some  account  of  what  is  going  forward  in  the  war-office.  I 
think  these  events  so  remarkable  that  some  notice  ought  to 
be  taken  of  them  in  the  House  of  Commons.  When  the  pub- 
lic loses  the  service  of  two  able  and  honest  servants,  it  is  but 
reasonable  that  the  wretch,  who  drives  such  men  out  of  a 
public  office,  should  be  compelled  to  give  some  account  of 
himself  and  his  proceedings. 

VETERAN. 


LETTER  CXI. 

TO  LORD  BARRINGTON*. 

Mv  Lord,  4  May,  1772. 

I  am  a  Scotchman,  and  can  assure  your  lordship  that  I  do 
not  esteem  my  country,  or  the  natives  of  it,  the  less  because 
we  are  not  so  happy  as  to  be  honoured  with  Lord  Barring- 
ton's  favourable  opinion- — From  a  pamphlet,  which  lately 
fell  in  my  way,  I  perceive  that  there  is  something  in  the  tem- 
per of  the  Scots,  that  does  not  suit  the  manlv,  sterling  virtue 
which  distinguishes  your  own  worthy  character.  We  are  too 
insolent  to  those  beneath  us,  and  too  obsequious  to  our  su- 
periors; and  with  such  a  disposition  must  never  hope  to  find 
favour  with  Lord  Barrington!  "  And  Cockburne,  like  most 
of  his  countrymen,  is  as  abject  to  those  above  him,  as  he  is 

*  The  original  copy  of  this  letter  is  still  in  the  hands  of  the  proprietor 
of  this  edition.  Edit.  . 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  465 

insolent  to  those  below  him."  These  are  your  words,  given 
under  your  hand,  as  a  solemn,  deliberate  opinion  of  his  Ma- 
jesty's secretary  at  war.  Such  a  censure,  coming  from  a  man 
of  honour,  good  sense,  or  integrity,  might  perhaps  have  some 
weight  with  the  thoughtless  or  uncandid.  But  when  it  comes 
from  a  man  whose  whole  life  has  been  employed  in  acting 
the  part  of  a  false,  cringing,  fawning,  time-serving  courtier, 
- — from  a  man  who  never  had  a  different  opinion  from  the 
minister  for  the  time  being,  and  who  has  always  contrived  to 
keep  some  lucrative  place  or  other  under  twenty  different 
administrations,  I  am  not  so  much  offended  at  the  reproach 
itself,  which  you  have  thought  proper  to  throw  upon  the 
Scots,  as  I  am  shocked  at  the  unparalleled  impudence  of  ap- 
plying your  own  individual  character  to  a  whole  nation. — It 
seems  my  countrymen  are  abject  to  those  above  them.  Pray, 
my  good  lord,  by  what  system  of  conduct  have  you  recom- 
mended yourself  to  every  succeeding  minister  for  these  last 
twenty  years? — Was  it  by  maintaining  your  opinion  upon  all 
occasions,  with  a  blunt,  firm  integrity,  or  was  it  by  the  basest 
and  vilest  servility  to  every  creature  that  had  power  to  do 
you  either  good  or  evil? — But  we  are  insolent  to  those  beloio 
us.  Indeed,  my  lord,  you  paint  from  your  own  heart.  There 
is  courage  at  least  in  our  composition.  It  is  the  coward  who 
fawns  upon  those  above  him.  It  is  the  coward  that  is  inso- 
lent, wherever  he  dares  be  so.  You  have  had  some  lessons 
which  have  made  you  more  cautious  than  you  used  to  be« 
You  have  reason  to  remember  that  modest,  humble  merit 
will  not  always  bear  to  be  insulted  by  an  upstart  in  office. 
For  the  future,  my  little  lord,  be  more  sparing  of  your  re- 
flections upon  the  Scots.  We  pay  no  regard  to  the  calumny 
of  anonymous  writers,  and  despise  the  malignity  of  John 
Wilkes.  But  when  a  man,  so  high  in  office  as  you  are,  pre- 
tends to  give  an  odious  character  of  a  whole  nation,  and  sets 
his  name  to  it,  we  should  deserve  the  reproach,  if  we  did  not 
resent  it.  You  are  so  detested  and  despised  by  all  parties 
(because  all  parties  know  you)  that  England,  Scotland,  and 
Ireland  have  but  one  wish  concerning  you,  and  that  is,  that, 
Vol.  II,  3  N 


466  MISCELLANEOUS 

as  you  have  shewn  yourself  a  fawning  traitor  to  every  party 
and  person,  with  which  you  ever  were  connected,  so  all 
parties  may  unite  in  loading  you  with  infamy  and  contempt. 

SCOTUS. 


LETTER  CXII. 

TO  THE    BIGHT-HONOURABLE   THE    LORDS  COMMISSIONERS  01" 
THE    ADMIRALTY. 

My  Lords,  8  May,  1772. 

Having  seen  in  last  Saturday's  paper  that  Mr.  Bradshaw 
was  appointed  to  be  a  member  of  your  board,  give  me  leave 
to  congratulate  your  lordships  on  the  event,  as  a  person  of 
Mr.  Bradshaw's  birth  and  talents  may  be  of  the  greatest  use 
to  you  on  many  occasions,  besides  adding  infinitely  more 
weight  and  dignity  to  the  board;  I  was  therefore  a  good  deal 
surprised  at  the  simple  manner  in  which  his  well  merited 
promotion  was  announced  to  the  public,  but  must  attribute 
it  either  to  his  own  modesty,  or  the  printer's  ignorance:  but 
whatever  be  the  cause,  I  think  it  necessary  to  acquaint  you, 
his  brother  lords,  with  a  little  of  his  history. 

It  is  needless  to  trouble  your  lordships  with  an  account  of 
his  birth  or  education,  as  the  first  might  be  a  very  difficult 
task,  and  the  latter  your  lordships  may  see  has  not  been 
neglected.  His  first  appearance  in  the  great  world  was  as  one 
of  Lord  Barrington's  domestics,  from  whence  he  moved  to 
Ireland,  set  up  a  shop,  and  under  the  influence  of  a  happy 
planet  returned  to  England,  where,  by  means  of  his  uncom- 
mon address  in  administering  to  the  pleasures  of  the  great, 
he  was  appointed  one  of  the  secretaries  to  the  treasury,  which 
office  he  held  during  the  Duke  of  Grafton's  administration, 
and  by  exerting  his  happy  talents  between  his  grace  and  the 
celebrated  Nancy  Parsons,  he  so  far  ingratiated  himself  with 
the  duke,  that  he  became  his  chief  confident,  and  was  privy 
to  the  whole  of  his  generous  treatment  of  that  young  lady, 
and  of  course  became  his  grace's  bosom  friend;  for  which 
service  he  first  received  a  pension  of  fifteen  hundred  pounds 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  467 

«  year  for  three  lives,  and  that  not  being  sufficient  is  now 
made  one  of  you.  I  cannot  avoid  again  congratulating  you  on 
the  acquisition  of  such  a  brother  member,  as  it  is  to  be  hoped 
he  will  assist  any  of  your  lordships  with  his  good  offices 
upon  all  occasions. 

I  have  the  honour  to  be, 
My  lords, 
Your  lordships'  most  humble 
And  obedient  servant, 
Pall-Mall.  ARTHUR  TELL-TRUTH. 


LETTER  CXIII. 

TO  THE  PRINTER  OF  THE  PUBLIC  ADVERTISER*. 
Sir,  12  May,  1772. 

I  am  just  returned  from  a  visit  in  a  certain  part  of  Berk- 
shire near  which  I  found  Lord  Barrington  had  spent  his 
Easter  holidays.  His  lordship,  I  presume,  went  into  the 
country  to  indulge  his  grief;  for  whatever  company  he  hap- 
pened to  be  in,  it  seems  his  discourse  turned  entirely  upon 
the  hardship  and  difficulty  of  his  situation.  The  impression 
which  he  would  be  glad  to  give  of  himself  is  that  of  an  old, 
faithful  servant  of  the  crown,  who  on  one  side  is  abused  and 
vilified  for  his  great  zeal  in  support  of  government,  and  at 
the  same  time  gets  no  thanks  or  reward  from  the  king  or  the 
administration.  He  is  modest  enough  to  affirm  in  all  com- 
panies, that  his  services  are  unrewarded;  that  he  bears  the 
burthen;  that  other  people  engross  the  profits;  and  that  he 
gets  nothing.  Those  who  know  but  little  of  his  history  may 
perhaps  be  inclined  to  pity  him;  but  he  and  I  have  been  old 
acquaintance,  and  considering  the  size  of  his  understanding, 
I  believe  I  shall  be  able  to  prove,  that  no  man  in  the  kingdom 
ever  sold  himself  and  his  services  to  better  advantage  than 

*  This  letter  was  advertised  under  the  title  of  Memoirs  of  Lord  Bar- 
rington, in  compliance  with  the  request  of  the  author.  See  private  note 
No.  62.  Edit. 


468  MISCELLANEOUS 

Lord  Barrington. — Let  us  take  a  short  review  of  him  from 

his  political  birth. 

On  his  entrance  into  the  House  of  Commons  he  declared 
himself  a  patriot;  but  he  soon  found  means  to  dispose  of  his 
patriotism  for  a  seat  at  the  admiralty-board.  This  worthy 
man,  before  he  obtained  his  price,  was  as  deeply  engaged  in, 
opposition  to  government,  as  any  member  of  the  Fountain 
club  to  which  he  belonged.  He  then  thought  it  no  sin  to  run 
down  Sir  Robert  Walpole,  though  now  he  has  altered  his 
tone.  To  oppose  the  measures  of  government,  however  dan- 
gerous to  the  constitution,  or  to  attack  the  persons  of  minis- 
ters, however  justly  odious  to  the  nation,  is  now  rank  faction 
in  the  opinion  of  the  pliant  Lord  Barrington.  His  allegiance 
follows  the  descent  of  power,  nor  has  he  ever  been  known  to 
dispute  the  validity  of  the  minister's  title,  as  long  as  he  con- 
tinued in  possession. 

His  lordship  remained  at  the  admiralty,  until  long  servility 
and  a  studious  attachment  to  the  Duke  of  Newcastle  had 
engaged  his  grace  to  recommend  him  for  secretary  at  war. 
When  the  duke  resigned  in  the  year  1756,  he  of  course  ex- 
pected that  Lord  Barrington  would  have  followed  him.  But 
his  lordship's  gratitude  to  his  patron  was  not  quite  heavy 
enough  to  weigh  against  two  thousand  five  hundred  a  year. 
He  knew  the  value  of  his  place,  and  kept  it  by  making  the 
same  professions  to  Mr.  Pitt  and  Lord  Temple  by  which  he 
had  deceived  the  Duke  of  Newcastle.  Before  the  late  king's 
death,  he  had  taken  early  measures  to  secure  an  interest  at 
Carlton-house;  and  when  his  present  Majesty  could  no  Ion* 
ger  bear  him  as  secretary  at  war,  he  found  means  to  ingra- 
tiate himself  so  far  with  Lord  Bute,  that  for  some  time  he 
was  suffered  to  be  chancellor  of  the  exchequer;  and  when 
that  post  appeared  to  be  not  tenable,  he  still  had  art  and  con- 
trivance enough  to  secure  himself  in  the  lucrative  office  of 
treasurer  of  the  navy.  In  1762,  he  was  the  most  humble  ser- 
vant of  Mr.  Fox.  In  1763  and  1764,  he  was  no  enemy  to 
Mr.  Grenville.  In  1765,  he  gave  himself  back,  body  and 
soul,  to  the  late  Duke  of  Cumberland  and  Lord  Rockingham. 
This  last  manoeuvre  restored  him  to  the  war-office,  where  he 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  469 

has  continued  ever  since,  with  equal  fidelity  to  Mr.  Pitt,  the 
Duke  of  Grafton,  and  Lord  North;  and  now  he  modestly 
tells  the  world  that  he  gets  nothing  by  his  services. 

Besides  the  singular  good  fortune  of  never  being  himself 
a  moment  out  of  place,  he  has  had  extraordinary  success  in 
providing  for  every  branch  of  his  family.  One  brother  was  a 
general  officer,  with  a  regiment  and  chief  command  at  Gau- 
daioupe.  A  second  is  high  in  the  navy  with  a  regiment  of 
marines.  A  third  is  a  judge,  and  the  fourth  is  a  bishop.  Yet 
this  is  the  man  who  complains  that  he  gets  nothing.  At  the 
same  time  his  parliamentary  interest  is  so  inconsiderable, 
that  ever  since  his  canting  hypocrisy  and  pretended  attach- 
ment to  the  dissenters  was  discovered  at  Berwick,  he  has 
been  obliged  to  the  influence  of  government  for  a  seat  in  the 
House  of  Commons,  which  he  holds  without  its  costing  him 
a  shilling. 

Having  given  you  a  short  account  of  the  emoluments  he 
has  received  from  government,  I  should  be  very  glad  to  see' 
as  faithful  an  account  of  his  services.  Some  of  them  are  pro- 
bably of  a  secret  nature,  of  which  we  can  form  no  judgment. 
His  ostensible  services,  in  the  public  opinion  at  least,  have 
been  considerably  overpaid.  At  his  very  outset,  the  blun- 
dering orders  he  sent  to  Gibraltar  might  have  occasioned  the 
loss  of  that  important  place.  When  the  fate  of  Gibraltar  was 
at  stake,  we  had  a  secretary  at  war  who  could  neither  write 
plain  English  nor  common  sense.  But  he  compensated  for 
his  own  blunder  by  ruining  the   worthy  General  Fowke, 
whom  he  and  a  certain  countess  (taking  a  base  advantage  of 
the  unhappy  man's  distress),  prevailed  upon  to  write  a  letter, 
the  recollection  of  which  soon  after  broke  his  heart.  In  the 
House  of  Commons,  I  think,  the  noble  lord  was  never  reck- 
oned an  able  debater.  Poor  B — ch  for  many  years  was  his 
nickname.   His  time-serving  duplicity  is  now  so  well  known, 
that  he  seldom  speaks  without  being  laughed  at.  Sometimes 
his  folly  exceeds  all  bounds;  as,  for  instance,  when  he  tra- 
duced the  whole  body  of  general  officers,  which,  I  presume, 
they  will  not  readily  forget.  In  the  war-office  he  has  made 
it  his  study  to  oppress  all  the  lower  part  of  the  army  by  a 


470  MISCELLANEOUS 

multitude  of  foolish  regulations,  by  which  he  hoped  to  gain 
the  reputation  of  great  discipline  and  economy,  but  which 
have  only  served  to  make  him  as  odious  to  the  military,  as  he 
is  to  every  other  rank  of  people  in  the  kingdom.  With  re- 
spect to  the  public  in  general,  I  presume  there  never  was  a 
man  so  generally  or  so  deservedly  detested  as  himself.  The 
people  of  this  country  will  never  forget  nor  forgive  the  in- 
human part  he  took  in  the  affair  of  St.  George's  Fields. 
Other  secretaries  at  war  have  ordered  out  troops  to  assist 
the  civil  magistrate.  For  this  man  it  was  reserved,  to  give 
it  under  his  hand,  that  he  rejoiced  and  exulted  in  the  blood 
of  his  fellow-subjects.  This  stroke  alone  would  be  sufficient 
to  determine  his  character.  Yet  so  far  from  having  done  the 
king  any  service  by  his  officious  zeal  upon  this  occasion,  I 
am  convinced  that  no  one  circumstance  has  so  much  contri- 
buted to  throw  an  odium  upon  the  present  reign.  I  will  not 
suppose  it  possible,  that  the  best  of  princes  could  be  pleased 
f  with  the  treason,  but  I  am  sure  he  has  reason  enough  to  hate 
the  traitor. 

Such  are  the  services,  which,  in  his  lordship's  opinion, 
can  never  be  sufficiently  rewarded.  He  complains  that  he  gets 
nothing,  although,  upon  a  moderate  computation,  he  has  not 
received  less  of  the  public  money  than  fifty-three  thousand 
pounds,  viz. 
Ten  years  lord  of  the  admiralty  ^"8000 

Eighteen  years  either  secretary  at  war,  chancellor 
of  the  exchequer,  or  treasurer  of  the  navy,  at 
2500/.  per  annum  45,000 


53,000 
It  is  not  possible  to  ascertain  what  farther  advantages  he 
may  have  made  by  preference  in  subscriptions,  lottery  tickets, 
and  the  management  of  large  sums  lying  in  his  hands  as 
treasurer  of  the  navy.  Mr.  Chamier,  if  he  thought  proper, 
might  give  us  some  tolerable  account  of  the  matter.  When 
a  secretary  at  war  chooses  a  broker  for  his  deputy,  it  is  not 
difficult  to  guess  what  kind  of  transactions  must  formerly 
have  passed  between  them.  I  don't  mean  to  question  the 


LETTERS  OF  JUNIUS.  471 

honour  of  Mr.  Chamier.  He  always  had  the  reputation  of  as 
active  a  little  fellow  as  any  in  Jonathan's.  But  putting  all 
things  together,  I  think  we  may  affirm  that,  when  Lord  Bar- 
rington  complains  of  getting  nothing  from  government,  he 
must  have  conceived  a  most  extravagant  idea  of  his  own  im- 
portance, or  that  the  inward  torture  he  suffers,  from  knowing 
how  thoroughly  he  is  hated  and  despised,  is  such  as  no 
pecuniary  emoluments  can  repay. 

NEMESIS. 


index! 


■%*  The  Roman  numerals  refer  to  the  volume;  the  figures,  to  the  page 
of  each  volume;  and  the  figures  *1,  *2,  *3,  *4,  &c.  to  the  pages  of  tlig 
Preliminary  Essay  and  Private  Letters. 

A. 

{.  B.  Letter  of,  to  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  ii.  329 — his  Grace's 
treatment  of  the  Duke  of  Rutland  exposed,  330,  33 1 — letter  to 
the  printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  in  vindication  of  Junius, 
442,  et  seq. 

idair  (Mr.),  argument  in  behalf  of  the  printers,  who  were  pro- 
secuted by  the  house  of  commons,  ii   442,  et  seq.  notes. 

Addison  (Mr  ),  remark  on  anonymous  writers,  i.  51-  note. 

Addresses  from  parliament,  considered  as  a  fashionable  unmean- 
ing formality,  i.  234 — their  consequences  considered,  when 
they  mean  exactly  what  they  profess,  id.  235 

Administration  of  government,  the  ruin  or  prosperity  of  a  stale, 
i.  32, 

Admiraltxj  (Lords  of),  letter  to,  on  Mr.  Bradshaw's  appointment 
to  be  one  of  their  number,  ii.  466. 

Advocate  in  the  cause  of  the  people,  letter  of  to  Junius,  ii.  109, 
et  seq.  notes — reply  to  by  Philo-Junius,  109,  et  seq. 

Almon  (Mr.),  prosecution  of,  for  libel,  i.  10,  note  * — remark  on 
his  exaggerated  statements,  192,  note — inaccuracies  in  his 
edition  of  Junius,  detected,  i.  *92,  note. 

America  patronised  by  Mr.  Pitt  and  Lord  Camden,  i.  35 — new 
office  established  for  transacting  its  affairs,  36 — origin  of  that 
office,  ib.  note.   See  Colonies. 

Amicus  Curice,  letter  of,  on  the  ministerial  controversy,  ii.  320. 
imherst  (sir  Jeffery,)  dismissed  from  his  government  in  Ame- 
rica, ii.  243— strictures  of  L.  L.  on  this  measure,  244,  et  seq, 
—Lord  Hillsborough's  conduct  towards  him,  considered,  249, 
et  seq.-—  his  negotiation  with  the  Duke  of  Grafton  considered, 
264 — letter  of  the  «ari  of  Hillsborough  to  him,  266,  notes — the 
Vol.  II.  3  O 


474  INDEX. 

chief  command  of  the  American  troops  was  never  offered  t<i> 

Sir  Jeffery,  27( — further  remarks  on  this  affair,  271,  et  seq > 

his  noble  and  disinterred  conduct  in  America,  288. 

Anonymous  Letters,  to  the  printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  ii. 
191 — strictures  on  the  dispute  with  America,  192,  et  seq.-— 
that  a  minister  who  is  determined  to  do  wrong,  must  be  a  man 
of  abilities  and  courage,  196 — the  establishment  of  the  high 
offices  of  state,  a  check  on  the  prerogative  of  the  crown,  198 — 
to  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  219 — on  his  Grace's  indelicate  con- 
•  duct  at  the  Opera-house,  220 — to  the  printer  of  the  Public 
Advertiser,  240— the  state  of  the  Colonies  considered,  240,  et 
seq. — to  the  printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  245 — the  effects 
of  the  stamp  act,  and  other  tea  acts  on  the  colonies,  considered, 
247 — to  the  Right  Hon.  Geo.  Grenville,  311 — his  influence 
and  integrity  stated  and  considered,  ibid.  313,  et  seq. 

Anti-Belial,  letter  of,  on  Junius's  attack  upon  Lord  Mansfield,  ii. 
447 — further  vindication  of  Junius,  452,  et  seq. 

Anti-Fox-,  letter  of,  to  the  printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  ii. 
441 — on  Junius's  conduct  to  Lord  Holland,  442. 

Anti-Junius,  letter  of,  to  Junius,  on  his  strictures  on  the  bailing 
of  Mr.  Eyre,  ii.  443,  not? — extract  from  his  answer  to  Junius's 
67th  letter,  448,  449,  notes — reply  thereto,  447,  448. 

Anti-Sejanus,  letter  of,  to  the  printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser, 
i',,  163 — the  mischiefs  of  Lord  Bute's  government  stated,  ibid. 
164. 

Anti-van-Teague,  (letter  of)  on  Sir  William  Lowther's  grant, 
ii.  208 — reply  to,  by  Anti-Stuart,  209,  et  seq. 

Arbitrary  firincifiles,  growth  of,  in  this  country,  ii.  207. 

Ashburton,  (Lord).    See  Dunning  infra. 

Atticus's  letter  to  the  printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  ii.  2.50 — 
the  state  of  the  country  considered,  previously  to  the  war 
with  America, 25  \,etseq. — defends  his  statement,  289,  et  seq.— 
review  of  the  measures  of  ministers,  294,  et  seq. — the  state- 
ments of  Atticus  vindicated  by  Brutus,  304,  305 — to  the 
printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  305 — the  most  contemptible 
character  is  that,  which  possesses  neither  judgment  nor  incli- 
nation to  do  right,  nor  resolution  enough  to  be  consistent  in 
doing  wrong,  3  6 — this  remark  illustrated  in  the  Duke  of 
Grafton's  administration,  306,  et  seq. 

Augur,  letter  of,  on  the  Duke  of  Grafton's  administration,  ii.  327, 
et  seq. 


INDEX.  475 

Aylesbury  election,  resolution  of  the  house  of  lords  concerning,  i. 
119. 

B. 

Bail)  statement  of  the  law  of,  ii.  126,  et  seq. 

Barrington,  (Lord),  memoirs  of  his  political  life  and  delin- 
quencies, ii.  467,  et  seq.-— extract  of  a  letter,  i.  26 — letter 
to  the  magistrates  of  Surrey,  226,  227,  note — portrait  of, 
ii.  169 — his  conduct,  as  secretary  at  war,  condemned  by 
Testis,  363,  364 — ironically  defended  by  Testiculus,  364, 
et  seq. — letters  of  a  Veteran  to  him  on  his  choice  of  a  de- 
puty secretary,  449,  et  seq.— curious  dialogue,  supposed  to 
have  passed  in  his  office,  45 1 — his  Lordship  charged  with 
ruining  General  Fowke,  455 — state  of  the  fact,  ibid,  note— 
his  political  changes  examined,  45  5 — his  changes  in  the  war- 
office,  456 — conversation  of  his  majesty  with  Lord  B.  456— ■ 
the  affair  of  St.  George's  Fields  considered,  457— his  unge- 
nerous nicknaming  of  General  Harvey  censured,  458 — dia- 
logue between  his  Lordship  and  one  of  his  agents,  458,  et  seq. 
—estimate  of  his  Lordship's  abilities,  458,  459— on  his  abuse 
of  the  Scotch  character,  464,  465. 

Barrister's  defence  of  Lord  Mansfield,  against  the  several 
charges,  brought  by  Junius,  ii.  112,  et  seq.  notes— reply  to 
him,  by  a  "  friend  of  Junius,"  112,  et  seq. 

Beckford,  (Mr.  Lord  Mayor)  letter  to  a  Liveryman  on  embezzle- 
ment of  the  public  money,  i.  *  1 12. 

Bedford,  (Corporation  of)  admit  strangers  to  their  freedom,  in 
order  to  shake  off"  the  tyranny  of  the  Duke  of  Bedford,  i.  148 
— history  of  the  circumstance,  ibid.  note. 

Bedford  (Duke  of)  unpopular,  i.  145 — causes  of  his  unpopularity 
stated,  ibid,  note — a  letter  to  him  from  Junius,  145,  et  seq. — 
his  feelings  nice,  if  to  be  judged  from  his  resentments,  146 — 
comparative  view  of  his  Grace's  advantages,  what  he  was  and 
what  he  might  have  been,  146,  147 — avows  his  selling  a  bo- 
rough, 148,  and  note — defeated  by  the  corporation  of  Bedford, 
149,  and  note — accused  of  insensibility  on  the  loss  of  his  son, 
ibid. — is  horsewhipped  at  Litchfield,  ibid,  note — his  Grace  every 
way  unfortunate,  ibid — his  embassy  to  Versailles,  the  first  im-  • 
portant  part  of  his  history,  150 — anecdote  of  his  mission,  ibid, 
note — those  who  are  acquainted  with  his  Grace's  pecuniary 
character,  are  apt  to  suspect  that  such  sacrifices  would  not  have 
been  made  without  some  private  compensations,  1 5 1 —  stipula- 


476  INDEX. 

tions  between  him  and  Lord  Bute  violated,  ibid.— hisotitrageou 
conduct  10  the  king,  ibid. — again  solicits  Lord  Bute's  friend- 
ship, 152 — measures  to  obtain  and  confirm  his  power,  153,  ei 
se</. — admonitions  of  Junius  to  him,  153,  154 — vindicated  by 
Sir  William  Draper,  1 60,  et  seq. — Junius's  view  of  his  charac- 
ter, 165 — anecdotes  of  his  Grace's  liberality,  and  vindication 
of  him,  165,  et  seq.  notes — makes  a  public  display  of  insensi- 
bility at  the  death  of  his  son,  173 — anecdote  of  his  parsimony. 
ibid,  note — character  of  his  Grace's  friends,  ii.  300,  301. 

Bedford  (Dutchess  of),  anecdote  of,  i.  174,  note. 

Benson  (Mr.),  challenged  as  a  juryman  by  Lord  Mansfield,  i. 
262    ii.  106. 

Bifrons.  letter  of,  to  the  printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  ii.  221 
— the  duplicity  of  ministers  exposed,  ibid,  et  seq. 

Bill  of  Rights'  Society,  declaration  and  resolutions  of,  i.  *  174, 
et  seq.  note — examination  of  their  respective  clauses  by  Ju- 
nius, *174,  et  seq. — remarks  on,  by  Mr.  Wilkes,  *209. 

Bing-ley  (Mr.),  imprisoned  for  contumacy,  i.  63,  note— illegally 
imprisoned,  256,  257,  note. 

Blackstone  (Dr.),  solicitor  to  the  queen,  i.  100 — more  anxious 
to  preserve  his  place  than  his  reputation,  ibid. — letter  to  him 
from  Junius,  120 — remarks  on  a  pamphlet  in  defence  of  his 
conduct,  121,  et  seq. — charged  with  asserting  in  the  house  of 
commons  doctrines  differing  from  those  maintained  in  hie 
Commentaries,  122 — strictures  thereon,  123,  et  seq. — that, 
when  he  spoke  in  the  house,  he  never  once  thought  on  the 
Commentaries,  until  the  contradiction  was  unexpectedly  urged, 
127 — extract  from  his  Commentaries  on  acts  of  attainder,  ibid, 
note — postscript  to  his  pamphlet,  entitled  "  an  answer  to  the 
Question  stated,"  128,  et  seq. — Junius's  reply  thereto,  133,  et 
seq. — his  doctrine  on  the  pains  of  death  examined,  ii.  318. 
319. 

Boston,  proceedings  at,  considered,  ii.  191,  et  seq. 

Botetourt  (Lord),  appointed  to  succeed  Sir  J.  Amherst,  as  gover- 
nor of  Virginia,  ii.  245 — reflections  on  the  choice  of  his  Lord- 
ship, ibid — remarks  on  his  lordship,  249,  et  seq. 

Boyd  (Hugh  Macauley),  supposed  to  be  the  author  of  the  letters 
of  Junius,  i.  *83 — anecdotes  of,  ibid—  examination  of  the 
claims  made  for  him,  *84,  et  sey.— proved  not  to  be  Junius, 
*95. 


INDEX.  477 

Dradthaw  (Mr.),  secretary  to  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  account  of, 
i.  99,  note — amount  of  his  pension,  and  how  secured,  2  \4,note— » 
is  called  upon  to  convince  and  undeceive  the  public,  ii.  353, 
554 — exculpated  by  Mr.  Cooper,  358 — further  remarks  on 
Mr.  B's  conduct,  358,  359— letter  to  him,  359 — account  of  his 
political  career,  466. 

Bromfield  (Mr.),  opinion  of,  on  the  murder  of  George  Clarke,  i. 
70,  note. 

Brooke  (Dr.),  said  to  be  quartered  upon  the  salary  of  a  patent 
place,  purchased  by  Mr.  Hine,  i.  187,  *128. 

Brutus,  letter  of,  to  the  printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  ii.  293 
—the  state  of  the  ministry  examined,  ibid.  294 — to  the  printer 
of  the  Public  Advertiser,  303 — the  same  subject  continued, 
ibid.  305 — to  Lord  North,  on  the  choice  of  his  friends  and 
ministerial  conduct,  i.  *1 38.  note. 

Bucareili  (the  Spanish  governor  of  Port  Egmont),  acted  in  obe- 
dience to  his  order,  i.  267,  et  seq. 

Burgoyne  (Colonel),  his  expenses  at  Preston,  i.  186 — the  pur- 
chase money  of  a  patent  place  said  to  be  given  to  him  for  his 
services  at  Preston,  187,- and  note  * — history  of  the  transac- 
tion,  i.  *  128. 

Burke  (Mr.),  speech  of,  in  the  house  of  commons,  on  the  liberty 
of  the  press,  i.  15,  et  seq.  note — satirical  speech  attributed  to 
him,  ii.  18 1,  et  seq.  notes — extract  from  his  remarks  on  Junius, 
i.  *4,  note — proof  that  he  was  not  the  author  of  Junius's  Let- 
ters, *63,  et  seq. — extracts  from  his  speech  on  American  tax- 
ation, *64 — his  encomiums  on  Lord  Rockingham,  *64 — and  on 
General  Conway,  *65. 

Bute,  (Earl  of)  strictures  on  his  maladministration,  ii.  163,  et 
seq. 

Butler  (Dr.,  Bishop  of  Hereford)  estimate  of  his  talents,  i.  *74 
—proofs  that  he  did  not  write  the  Letters  of  Junius,  *75. 

C. 

C,  {the  private  signature  of  Junius,)  letter  of,  to  the  printer  of 
the  Public  Advertiser,  ii.  211 — the  conduct  of  ministers  to- 
wards Mr.  Wilkes,  since  his  return  to  this  country,  examined, 
212,  et  seq. — to  the  same,  216 — examination  of  the  maxim, 

nullum  temjius  occurrit  regi,  ibid,  et  seq. — to  the  same,  224 

♦hat  the  endeavours  of  ministers  to  make  us  happy,  have  been 


478  INDEX. 

equally  indefatigable  and  ingenious,  ibid. — .illustration  of  this, 
remark,  by  a  detail  of  their  conduct,  ibid.  225 — to  the  same, 
on  the  new  commission  of  trade,  233,  et  seq. — reply  to  Insom- 
nis,  on  the  same  subject,  237,  et  seq. 

Calamities  (national)  caused  by  the  conduct  and  character  of 
ministers,  i.  46. 

Calc>-aft,  (Mr.)  his  vote  worth  reckoning  in  a  division,  ii.  95— 
introduced  into  political  notice  by  Lord  Holland,  ibid.  note. 

Camden,  (Lord)  queries  of  to  Lord  Mansfield,  on  his  charge  to 
the  jury  at  Mr.  Woodfall's  trial,  i.  12,  note — the  patron  of 
America,  35 — his  noble  resolution  concerning  the  resolution 
of  the  House  of  Commons  in  Col.  Luttrell's  affair,  212, 
note — is  commanded  to  resign  the  seals  in  consequence,  ibid, 
note — his  opinion  relative  to  the  King's  power  during  a  recess 
of  Parliament,  ii.  97,  note — letter  to  his  Lordship  from  Junius, 
147 — who  calls  upon  him  to  stand  forth  in  defence  of  the 
laws  of  his  country,  ibid. — portrait  of,  by  Corregio,  1 68  and 
note  * — another,  by  Atticus,  299 — accepts  Lord  Mansfield's 
challenge,  371 — who  declines  to  reply  to  Lord  Camden,  373. 

Campbell,  (L.  D.)  his  claims  for  Mr.  Boyd  to  be  the  author  of 
Junius's  letters,  examined,  i.  *83,  et  seq. — his  claims  dis- 
proved, *95. 

Carleton  house,  plan  of  tutelage  and  future  dominion  over  the 
heir  apparent,  formed  there  many  years  ago,  i.  193,  note. 

C/iamier,  (M.)  appointed  deputy  Secretary  at  War,  ii.  449— 
strictures  thereon,  450,  et  seq. 

Charles  i.  and  ii.  hypocrites,  but  of  different  sorts,  i.  89 — trea- 
chery of  the  Scotch  to  Charles  i.,  202. 

Chatham,  (Lord)  speech  in  Parliament,  on  Mr.  Woodfall's  trial, 
i.  19,  note  * — introduces  the  Duke  of  Grafton  into  the  politi- 
cal world,  89,  and  note — obliged  to  withdraw  his  name  from 
an  administration  formed  on  the  credit  of  it,  91 — extract  of  his 
speech  on  the  state  of  the  country  in  1771,  ii.  10,  note-—  the 
city  of  London  yote  their  thanks  to  him  for  his  declaration  in 
favour  of  short  Parliaments,  and  his  reply,  60,  note — severe  in- 
vective against  him,  155 — letter  from  hib  lordship,  stating  the 
causes  of  his  resignation,  157,  note — censured  by  Anti-Seja- 
nus,  for  accepting  a  pension  and  title,  164 — the  country  in- 
debted to  him  for  the  greatest  part  of  the  national  debt,  195. 

Ghoiseul  (M.)  anecdote  of,  i.  150,  note. 


INDEX.  479 

Clarke,  (Geo.)  murdered  at  the  Middlesex  election,  i.  69,  note — 
warrant  for  pardoning  his  supposed  murderer,  70,  note. 

Clcofihan,  letters  of  to  the  printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  ii. 
262 — Sir  J.  Amherst's  resignation  considered,  263,  et  seq. 
272,  et  seq. 

Clergy ,  are  incapacitated  from  sitting  in  Parliament,  i.  138. 

Cockburn,  (Mr.  Serjeant)  character  of,  i.  26. 

Coke,  (Sir  Edward)  observation  on  England,  i.  26 — his  opinion 
with  regard  to  the  power  of  the  House  of  Commons  to  com- 
mit for  contempt,  ii.  20. 

Colonies,  of  America,  alienated  from  their  natural  affection  to 
the  mothe?  country,  i.  35 — Stamp  Act  made  and  repealed, 
ibid,  and  a  new  mode  of  taxing  them  invented,  ibid. — effect 
produced  there  by  the  Stamp  Act,  92,  note — origin  of  hostili- 
ties between  them  and  the  mother  country,  243,  note — no  as- 
sistance to  be  expected  by  the  King,  from  their  alienated  af- 
fections, 201 — state  of  considered,  ii.  240,  et  seq. 

Commissioned  officers,  number  of,  in  the  guards,  i.  203,  note  *. 

Commons,  House  of,  their  powers  defined,  i.  3 — their  conduct  in 
the  Middlesex  election  censured  by  the  Marquis  of  Granby,  66, 
note — whether  one  of  its  members,  who  is  expelled,  is  thereby 
incapacitated  from  being  re-elected,  1 10,  et  seq.— duties  of  de- 
fined, 198 — that  they  have  attributed  to  their  own  vote  an  au- 
thority equal  to  an  Act  of  the  legislature,  204 — are  only  inter- 
preters, whose  duty  it  is  faithfully  to  convey  the  sense  of  the 
people  to  the  crown,  235 — would  best  consult  their  dignity  by 
appealing  to  the  laws  when  offended,  ii.  9,  and  note — arbitrary- 
proceedings  of,  10, 1 1,  and  notes — strictures  on  their  proceed- 
ings against  the  Newspaper  printers,  for  reporting  their  de- 
bates, 402,  et  seq. — statement  of,  circumstances  connected 
therewith,  and  remarks  on  their  powers  of  commitment,  ibid, 
notes,  4  17,  et  seq. 

Conway,  (Hon.  Henry  Seymour)  notice  of,  i.  82,  note — portrait 
of,  ii.  1 67. 

Cooper,  (Mr.  Grey)  letter,  exculpating  Mr.  Bradshaw,  ii.  358. 

Cornwallis,  (Lord)  political  sketches  of,  ii.  348. 

Corrector,  letter  of,  on  the  errors  of  Lucius,'  ii.  282,  note. 

Corregio,  (Junius)  letter  of,  ii.  167 — sketches  outlines  of  sub- 
jects for  Lord  Townshend's  pencil,  ibid,  et  seq. 

Conica  shamefully  abandoned,  i.  46— brief  account  of  its  subju- 


480  INDEX. 

gation,  ibid,  note  * — would  never  have  been  invaded,  had  the; 

British  Court  interposed  with  dignity  and  firmness,  94.  and  note. 
Council,  satirical  minutes  of  a  grand  council,  upon  the  affairs  of 

Ireland,  ii.  174,  et  seq. 
Crito,  letters  from  to  Mr.  Weston,  i.  77,  et  seq. 
Cromwell,  (Oliver)  with  all  his   crimes,   had  the  spirit  of  an 

Englishman,  i.  277,  278. 
Crosby,  (Mr.  Alderman)  spirited  address  to  the  Speaker  of  the 

House  of  Commons,  ii.  404 — committed  to  the  Tower,  ibid.—- 

address  to  him  on  his  conduct,  406.  et  seq. 
Crown,  undue  influence  of,  caused  by  long  Parliaments,  i.  5— 

the  maxim,  4  that  no  length  of  time  secures  against  a  claim  of 

the  crown,'  examined  and  refuted,  ii.  202,  et  seq. 
Cumberland,  (Wm  Duke  of)  in  his  time,  parliamentary  influence 

prevailed  least  in  the  army,  i.  56. 
Cumberland,  (late  Duke  of)  letter  to,  on  his  marriage  with  Mrs. 

Horton,  ii.  445 — account  thereof,  ibid. 
Cumbriensis,  letter  of,  to  the   Duke  of  Cumberland,  ii.  445,  et 

seq. — his  Grace's  nuptials  considered,  ibid. 

D. 

Dalrymfile,  (Mr.)  the  author  of  the  letters  to  Junius,  under  the 

signature  of  Modestus,  i.  171,  note. 
Debt,  (public)  observations  on  the  increase  of,  i.  34,  35 — amount 

of,  in  1763,  34,  note. 
Dedication  of  Junius's  letters  to  the  people  of  England,  reasons 

for,  i.  1 . 
De  Grey,  (Lord  Chief  Justice)  strictures  on  his  charge,  while 

Attorney-General,  against  the  tendency  of  Junius's  letters,  i. 

22. 
De  la  Fontaine,  (M.)  appointed  barrack-master  to  the  Savoy,  i. 

*127. 
De  Lolme,  (M.)  remark  of,  on  the  liberty  of  the  press,  i.  29. 
Dingley,  (Mr.)  an  unsuccessful  candidate  for  the  county  of  Mid' 

dlesex,  i.  74,  note  § — his  death,  ii.  29,  note. 
Dodd,  (Lieutenant),  applies  to  Lieut.  Garth  for  the  assistance  of 

his    ouard  to  rescue   General    Gansel,  i.   177 — remarks  on 

Capt   D.'s  conduct,  181,  ii.  336,  342,  et  seq. 
Domitian,  Letter  of,  to  ihc  printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  ii. 

345 — political  sketches  of  ministers,  345,  et  seq. — to  the  same, 

366 — the  Duke  of  Grafton's  conduct  while  in  office,  examined, 


INDEX.  481 

366,  et  seq. — to  the  same,  379 — Lord  Sandwich's  return  to 
office,  considered,  ibid. — to  the  same,  on  the  change  of  minis- 
ters, with  a  review  of  their  respective  talents,  3»4,  et  seq. — 
takes  leave  of  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  439. 

Downright,  letter  of,  to  the  printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  ii. 
195- — the  obligations  of  the  country  to  Lord  Chatham,  ibid. 

Drafter,  (Sir  Wm.)  biographical  notice  of,  i.  44,  n<,tc — vindi- 
cates and  commends  Lord  Granby,  against  the  charges  of  Ju- 
nius, 40,  et  seq. — is  involved  in  a  controversy  on  account  of  his 
description  of  his  friend,  50,  et  seq.  note — strictures  on  Junius's 
letter  to  him,  50,  et  seq — further  vindicates  Lord  Granby,  54 
—vindicates  himself  in  the  affair  of  the  Manilla  ransom,  58 — 
accounts  for  his  promotions,  59 — another  leiter  to  Junius,  62 
— answers  a  question  proposed  by  Junius,  ibid. — politics  of  Sir 
William,  not  violent,  64,  note — letter  to  the  printer  of  the 
Public  Advertiser,  ibid,  note — plan  for  conciliating  parties,  ibid. 
— anecdote  of,  &5,note — is  requested  by  ihe  Marquis  of  Granby 
to  desist  from  vindicating  him,  ibid,  note — defends  himself 
against  Junius,  in  another  letter  to  »he  printer  of  the  Public 
Advertiser,  67,  notes — to  Junius,  155 — complains  of  Junius's 
assertion,  that  he  had  sold  the  companionsof  his  success, ibid  ^^ 
that  it  is  a  malicious  falsehood,  and  challenges  the  writer  to 
meet  the  charges,  ibid. — appeals  to  the  gentlemen  to  whom  he 
had  applied  in  this  affair,  156 — to  Junius;  that  he  has  read  his 
letter  to  the  Duke  of  Bedford  with  horror  and  astonishment, 
wherein  an  affectionate  father  is  upbraided  with  the  loss  of  an 
only  and  most  amiable  son,  160 — that  Junius  goes  wantonly 
out  of  his  way  to  torment  declining  age,  ibid. — t  alls  upon  Ju- 
nius to  prove  the  Duke's  avarice  before  he  draws  his  hasty 
and  wicked  conclusions,  161 — but  if  an  ambassador  loves 
money  loo  much,  is  this  a  proof  that  he  has  taken  any  to  be- 
tray his  country,  ibid that  the  duke,  howe"  e     powerful,  is 

amenable  to  justice,  and  that  parliament  is  the  solemn  and 
high  tribunal,  162 — Sir  W  ilium's  account  of  the  ministerial 
quarrels,  ibid.  163 — contradicts  the  report  of  his  being  ap- 
pointed to  a  government  in  America,  163,  note — vindicates 
Lord  Chatham  against  Mr.  Wilkes,  ii.  159,  et  seq.  notes. 

Dunning    (J.  Lord  Ashburton),  extract  from  his  address  to  the 
Chamberlain  of  London,  on  receiving  the  freedom  of  the  city, 
i..228,  note — supposed  to  be  the  author  oi  Junius,  *96 — proof 
that  he  was  not  Junius,  *97. 
Vol.  II.  3  P 


482  INDEX. 

Dufilicity,  the  predominant  virtue  of  ministers,  ii.  221. 

Dyer,  (Samuel),  proofs  that  he  was  not  the  writer  of  Junius's 
letters,  i.  *62. 

Dyson,  (Mr.)  the  author  of '  The  case  of  the  late  election  for  the 
county  of  Middlesex  considered,' i.  120,  note,  135,  note — re- 
marks on  his  services,  by  Mr.  Flood,  *9 8— loses  his  pen- 
sion, *148,  note. 

E. 

Egremont,  (Lord)  character  of,  i.  15  1,  and  note  f. 

Election,  right  of,  the  very  essence  of  the  constitution,  i.  85— 
see  Middlesex. 

Ellis,  (Mr.  Welbore),  sure  of  disgrace,  whether  he  make  or 
suppress  a  motion,  i.  232 — account  of  his  intended  motion, 
ibid.  note. 

Embezzlement  of  public  money  charged  against  Lord  Holland  in 
a  petition  of  the  ciiy  of  London,  i.  *109 — -*111 — correspon- 
dence thereon  between  Lord  Holland  and  Mr.  Beckford,  *1 11, 
et  seq. 

England,  (People  of),  by  nature  somewhat  phlegmatic,  ii.  200— 
advantages  of  this  temper,  ibid. — examples  of  it,  201,  et  seq. — 
letters  on  the  state  of,  250,  et  seq.,  289,  et  seq. — state  of,  in  the 
spring  of  1767,  185,  et  seq. 

Exfiulsion  from  the  House  of  Commons,  on  the  right  of,  i.  85 — 
of  Mr.  Wilkes,  the  question  thereupon  stated,  108,  et  seq.— 
whether  the  expulsion  of  a  member  of  the  House  of  Commons 
creates  incapacity  of  being  re-elected,  110,  et  seq. — the  expul- 
sion of  Mr.  Walpole,  and  his  re-election,  how  far  a  case  in 
poifit,  111,  et  seq. 

Eyre,  (John),  correspondence  between  Junius  and  Mr.  Wilkes 
on  his  case,  i.  *206,  et  seq — bailed  by  Lord  Mansfield,  ii.  120 
— notice  of  his  case,  120,  121,  notes — the  affair  stated  and  ex- 
amined according  to  the  statutes,  &c.  127,  et  seq. — Lord  Cam- 
den's opinion  that  the  bail  was  illegal,   147,  note — letter  from 

one  of  his  three  bail,  ii.  442,  note. 

* 

F. 

Faithful  Monitor,  letter  of  one,  to  the  printer  of  the  Public  Ad- 
vertiser, ii.  165 — on  the  characters  of  Lord  Townshend  and  his 
brother, ibid. 

Falkland' .<  I-lands,  account  of  the  seizure  of.  by  order  of  the  King 
of  Spain,  ii.  39 1,  note-— negotiations  between  the  two  countries 


INDEX.  493 

in  consequence,  ibid,  notes— queries  proposed  thereupon  to 
the  judges,  393 — protest  of  several  peers  concerning,  394, 
et  seq.  notes — strictures  on  the  whole  of  this  transaction,  391, 
et  seq.-—  private  letters  of  Junius  concerning  this  affair,  i.  *135, 
*136,  and  notes. 

Fiat  Justitia,  letter  of,  to  the  printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser, 
ii.  229— strictures  on  the  letter  of  thanks  to  the  comma  ding 
officer  of  the  troops  employed  in  St.  George's  Fields,  230,  et 
seq. 

Flood,  (Henry,  M.  P.  in  Ireland),  proof  that  he  did  not  write  the 
letters  of  Junius,  i.  *98. 

Foote,  (Mr.)  opinion  on  the  murder  of  Geo.  Clarke,  i   70,  note. 

Ford,  (Mr.)  character  of,  ii.  286 — parallel  between  him  and  the 
Earl  of  Hillsborough,  ibid.  j> 

Fowke,  (General),  ruined  by  Lord  Barrington,  ii.  455 — state  of 
the  circumstances,  ibid.  note. 

Fox,  (Right  Hon.  C.  J.)  speech  of,  in  the  House  of  Commons, 
on  liberty  of  the  press,  i.  13,  et  seq.  note — nobly  carries  a  bill 
through  parliament,  declaring  juries  to  be  full  judges  both  of 
the  law  and  the  fact,  257,  et  seq.  notes. 

France,  influence  of,  over  the  Continent  might  have  been  cur- 
tailed, i.  94,  note. 

Freedom  of  the  press,  the  palladium  of  English  rights,  i.  3,  4— 
strictures  on.  8. 

G. 

G.  A.  objections  of,  to  Junius's  state  of  the  question  concerning 
the  Middlesex  election,  i.  114,  notes — his  objections  consi- 
dered, 114,  et  seq.  in  text. 

Game-Laws,  oppressive  to  the  subject,  ii.  1 18. 

Gansel,  (Major-General),  arrest  of,  i.  176,  and  note  * — rescued 
from  the  bailiff's  by  a  corporal  and  other  soldiers,  177 — Junius's 
reasons  for  not  pushing  his  inquiries  against  the  general,  ii. 
336 — remarks  of  X.  X.  on  his  case,  340,  341,  343. 

Garter,  number  of  knights  necessary  to  constitute  a  chapter,  ii. 
399. 

Garth,  (Lieutenant),  declines  interfering  in  behalf  of  General 
Gansel,  i.  177 — and  stands  aloof  while  another  officer  orders 
out  the  king's  guard  to  rescue  him,  ibid. — remarks  on  this 
conduct,  ii.  342. 

Garrick,  (M'\)  admonitory  letter  of  Junius  to  him.  i  *143 — . 
threatened  by  Mr.  Wilkes  if  he  performed  a  particular  charac- 


484  INDEX. 

ter,  ibid,  note — letter  of  Mr.  Wilkes  on  this  character,  *144, 
notes. 

General  Warrants,  in  what  respects  different  from  press  war- 
rants, ii.  Ill,  112. 

Gisborne,  (Colonel,)  motives  of  Sir  Wm.  Draper  for  resigning 
his  regiment  to  him,  i.  59 — Colonel  Draper  resigned  it  to  him 
for  his  half-pay,  61 — accepts  a  pension  for  the  government  of 
Kinsale,  249,  note. 

Gower,  (Lord),  unduly  elected  a  knight  of  the  garter,  ii.  399 — 
account  of  the  transaction,  ibid.  400,  note — strictures  thereon, 
ibid. 

Grafton,  (Duke  of),  notice  of  his  political  life,  ii*  295,  et  seq.—. 
resigns  his  office  of  first  lord  of  the  treasury,  i.  209,  note — 
portrait  of,  by  Correggio,  (Junius),  ii  167 — Letters  of  Junius 
to  his  grace,  i.  68,  et  seq. — on  what  footing  he  accepted,  and 
soon  after  resigned  the  secretaryship  of  state,  33,  and  note — 
character  of  his  administration,  34— the  only  act  of  mercy  he 
recommended  to  his  majesty  disapproved,  69 — examination  of 
Mac  Quirk's  affair,  70,  et  seq.  ii.  318 — one  fatal  mark  fixed  on 
every  measure  in  which  he  is  concerned,  i.  74 — ruins  Sir 
James  Lowther's  interest  in  Cumberland,  for  ever,  ibid.— a. 
singular  instance  of  youth  without  spirit,  75 — is  obliged  either 
to  abandon  a  useful  partisan,  or  to  protect  a  felon  from  public 
justice,  ibid. — requested  to  state  for  which  of  Mr.  Wilkes's 
good  qualities  he  honoured  him  with  his  friendship,  76 — was 
at  first  scrupulous  of  even  exercising  those  powers  with  which 
the  executive  power  of  the  legislature  is  invested,  79— -charged 
with  reserving  proofs  of  his  intrepid  spirit  for  trials  of  greater 
hazard,  83 — and  with  balancing  his  non-execution  of  the  laws 
with  a  breach  of  the  constitution,  ibid. — the  seating  of  Colonel 
Luttrell  in  parliament  emails  on  posterity  the  immediate  ef- 
fects of  his  administration,  85 — remarks  on  his  grace's  con- 
duct in  this  affair,  86 — base  conduct  of,  to  his  n.istiess,  87, 
note — in  his  system  of  government,  he  addresses  himself  to 

the  touch,  ^8 — curious  speculation  on  his  character,  ibid its 

resemblance  to  that  of  his  royal  progenitors,  89 — origin  of  his 
grace's  house,  ibid,  note — at  the  outset  of  his  political  career, 
was  a  patriot  of  no  unpromising  expectations,  89 — account  of 
his  grace's  introduction  into  political  life,  90>  note — has  many 
compensations  to  make  in  the  closet  for  his  former  friendship 
with  Mr.  Wilkes,  ibid. — his  union  by  marriage,  not  imprudent 


INDEX.  435 

in  a  political  point  of  view,  9 1 — his  public  conduct  as  a  minis- 
ter, the  counterpart  of  his  private  history,  92 — effects  of  his 
administration,  95 — immoral  conduct  of,  96 — the  whole  course 
of  his  life,  a  strange  endeavour  to  unite  contradictions,  98 — 
his  insult  to  public  decorum  at  the  Opera  House,  100,  ii.  219 
— always  has  some  reasons  for  deserting  his  friends,  i.  101  — 
his  political  infant  state,  childhood,  puberty,  and  manhood, 
102 — if  his  talents  had  kept  pace  with  the  principles  of  his 
heart,  he  would  have  become  a  most  formidable  minister,  103 — 
the  people  find  a  resource  in  the  weakness  of  his  understand- 
ing,^^.— his  grace,  the  leader  of  a  submissive  administration, 
collected  from  the  deserters  of  all  parties,  105 — wholesome  ad- 
vice to  his  grace,  107 — his  coyness  in  rejecting  Mr.  Vaughan's 
proposals,  compared  to  the  termagant  chastity  of  a  prude,  186 
— is  required  to  state  the  price  of  the  patent  purchased  by  Mr, 
Hine,  ibid. — remarks  on  the  sale  of  offices  by  the  duke,  187, 
et  seq. — in  his  public  character  has  injured  every  subject  in 
the  empire,  209 — the  event  of  all  the  sacrifices  he  made  to 
Lord  Bute's  patronage,  ibid. — at  the  most  active  period  of  life 
compelled  to  quit  the  busy  scene,  and  conceal  himself  from 
the  world,  210 — disregards  the  petitions  presented  to  the  king, 
211 — situation  in  which  he  abandoned  his  royal  master,  212, 
et  seq. — contented  himself  with  pronouncing  Mr.  Luttrell's 
panegyric,  248 — is  restored  to  his  rank  under  the  royal  stand- 
ard, ii.  24 — Junius  confesses  his  great  intrinsic  merit,  but  cau- 
tions him  not  to  value  it  too  highly,  ibid. — in  vain  would  the 
king  have  sought  a  more  consummate  character,  25 — the  king 
remembers  with  gratitude  how  the  duke  accommodated  his 
morals  to  the  necessity  of  his  service,  26 — his  grace's  abun- 
dance of  other  merit  which  secured  the  favour  of  hi#  sove- 
reign, 27 — that  his  grace  never  formed  a  friendship  which 
was  not  fatal  to  the  object  of  it,  nor  adopted  a  cause  which  he 
did  not  injure,  28 — his  re-appointment  to  the  cabinet,  an- 
nounced by  the  ominous  return  of  Lord  Bute,  30 — all  his 
grace's  measures  calculated  to  make  his  majesty's  govern- 
ment contemptible  and  ridiculous,  ibid. — that  his  grace  is  the 
pillar  upon  which  Junius  is  determined  to  rest  all  his  resent- 
ments, 33— -letter  to  the  duke  from  Junius,  73 — to  what  enor- 
mous excesses  the  influence  of  the  crown  has  conducted  his 
grace,  without  a  ray  of  real  understanding,  or  a  single  spark 
of  resolution,  ibid, — in  what  a  hopeful  state  he  delivered  the 


486  INDEX. 

navy  to  his  successor,  76 — a  warrant  issued  for  cutting  timber 
in  Whittlebury  Forest,  of  which  his  grace  is  hereditary 
ranger,  ibid. — his  grace's  cruel  conduct  on  this  occasion  to  the 
deputy  ranger,  77 — the  duke's  assertion,  that  the  property  of 
the  timber  is  vested  in  the  ranger,  disproved,  ibid. — yet  the 
oaks  keep  their  ground,  the  king  is  defrauded,  and  the  navy 
suffers  for  want  of  timber,  and  all  this  to  appease  the  Duke  of 
Grafton,  ibid. — strictures  on  the  duke's  principles,  78,  et  seq. — 
the  story  of  the  oaks,  addressed  to  the  public  and  to  Junius, 
82,  notes — to  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  122 — the  mortification  of 
his  grace,  on  Sir  James  Lowther's  defeat,  ibid.— his  expedition 
in  hastening  the  grant  to  transfer  the  Duke  of  Portland's  pro- 
perty to  Sir  James  Lowther,  124 — ironical  letter  to  his  grace, 
from  Pomona,  232 — his  negotiation  with  Sir  J.  Amherst  consi- 
dered, 264 — hio  grace's  ideas  of  the  proper  object  of  a  British 
peerage  examined  and  exposed,  268— strictures  on  his  ad- 
ministration, by  Atticus,  305,  et  seq. — he  rose  by  Mr.  Wilkes's 
popularity,  and  will  probably  fall  by  it,  309 — the  charges  of 
Junius  against  the  duke,  contrasted  with  the  answers  of  his 
grace's  defenders,  321 — the  scurrilous  language  and  conduct 
of  his  grace's  hireling  writers,  exposed  by  Augur,  327— let- 
ter to  his  grace,  by  A..  B.  329 — the  facility  with  which  the 
duke  abandoned  his  early  connexions  in  friendship  and  poli- 
tics, a  recommendation  at  court,  ibid. — his  conduct  towards  the 
Duke  of  Rutland,  in  nominating  justices,  exposed,  330,  et  seq. 
—vindicated  by  Messala,  332,  et  seq.-—  his  grace's  conduct, 

.  while  in  power,  examined  and  exposed,  366 — specimen  of  his 
oratorical  talents,  368. 

Granby,  (Lord)  charged  with  accumulating  lucrative  employ- 
ments in  his  own  person  and  family,  i.  38— his  cares  chiefly 
confined  to  the  filling  up  of  commissions,  ibid. — is  commended 
and  vindicated  by  Sir  Wm.  Draper  against  the  charges  of 
Junius,  41,  et  seq. — further  remarks  on,  by  Junius,  45,  et  seq. 
— vindication  of,  by  Titus,  53,  et  seq.  note — illustrations  of  his 
character  as  a  man,  as  a  soldier,  and  as  a  general,  54,  et  seq. — 
requested  Sir  Wm.  Draper  to  desist  from  his  defence,  65, 
note — remarks  on  his  character,  66 — speech  of,  ibid,  no  e— 
portrait  of,  by  Correggio,  (Junius),  ii.  169 — letter  to  him,  by 
(the  same),  a  real  friend,  317 — his  lordship's  former  and  pre- 
sent character,  contrasted,  ibid,  et  seq. 


INDEX.  4,87 

tJrenville,  (Mr.)  at  any  rate  to  be  distressed  because  he  was  a 
minister,  i.  35 — his  administration  the  authors  of  the  stamp 
act,  92,  note — account  of  his  political  career,  105,  note — vindi- 
cated from  some  reflections  against  him,  in  a  pamphlet  writ- 
ten in  defence  of  Sir  VVm.  Blackstone,  121,  et  seg. — chastised 
by  the  speaker  of  the  House  of  Commons,  127— concurred  in 
forming  the  stamp  act,  and  opposing  its  repeal,  ii.  247 — letter 
from  him  to  Mr.  Knox,  248,  note — letter  to  him  from  Junius, 
3 1 1 — the  peculiar  advantages  resulting  from  his  integrity  and 
influence  pointed  out,  ibid,  et  seg.-— high  character  of  him,  by 
Mr.  Knox,  313,  notes — his  act  for  regulating  contested  elec- 
tions, evaded,  371. 

Grosvenor  Cause,  remarks  on,  ii.  383. 

H. 

Hamilton,  (W.  G.)  notice  of,  i.  *62,  note — proved  not  to  be  the 
writer  of  Junius's  letters,  ibid. — examination  of  Mr.  Malone's 
evidence  to  the  contrary,  *72,  et  seg. 

Harley,  (Mr.)  the  government  of  the  city  said  to  be  committed 
to  him,  ii.  31. 

Hartford,  (Lord)  remarks  on  his  political  conduct,  ii.  347. 

Harvey,  (Adjutant-General)  character  of,  i.  43. 

Hawke,  (Sir  Edward)  the  country  highly  indebted  to  him,  i.  38 
—remarks  on  his  political  career,  ii.  346,  et  seg.-— his  resigna- 
tion considered,  384. 

Henricus,  letter  of,  to  Lord  Suffolk,  on  his  conduct,  ii.  425 — his 
lordship  the  first  man  who  avowed  himself  to  act  without  prin- 
ciple, 432— his  political  tergiversation,  432,  et  seg. — letter  to 
Lord  Suffolk,  436 — his  lordship's  resignation  a  pledge  of  his 
delicacy,  if  not  of  his  integrity,  ibid.-—  strictures  on  the  situation 
into  which  his  lordship  brought  himself,  437. 

Hillsborough,  (Earl  of)  notice  of  his  political  life,  ii.  298 — is  ap- 
pointed to  govern  the  colonies  of  America,  i.  36 — strictures 
on  his  administration,  ibid — origin  of  the  office  to  which  he 
was  appointed,  ibid,  note — his  conduct  towards  Sir  J.  Amherst 
considered,  ii.  249,  255,  et  seg.— letters  of  Lucius  to  him  on 
the  same  subject,  258,  et  seg.  265,  et  seg. — letter  of  his  lord- 
ship to  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst,  266,  note — reply  of  A.  B. 
thereto,  ibid,  note — other  letters  of  Lucius  on  his  lordship's 
conduct  to  Sir  J.  Amherst,  275,  et  seg. — ironical  encomium  on 
LordH.,  291. 


488  INDEX. 

Bine,  (Mi*.)  purchases  a  patent,  i.  1 86 — the  price  at  which  it  was 
knocked  down,  187 — history  of  the  transaction,  i.  *128. 

History,  chapters  of  materials  for,  ii.  370,  et  seq. 

.Holland,  (Lord)  favoured  by  Junius,  i.  *109 — petition  against  his 
embezzling  public  money,  by  the  city  of  London,  *109,  *110 
— his  letter  to  the  Lord  Mayor,  *111 — reply  of  the  Lord 
Mayor,  *l  1 1,  *1 12 — answer  of  Lord  Holland,  *  L 1 3— observa- 
tions on  his  accounts,  as  Pay-master-General,  *113,  et  seq. — 
memorial  of  his  lordship,  for  longer  time  to  make  up  his  ac- 
counts, *)15 — his  majesty's  warrant  to  stay  process  against 
him  for  six  months,  *1 16. 

Holt,  (Lord  Chief  Justice)  anecdote  of,  ii.  417,  note. 

Home,  (Rev.  Mr.)  his  unfortunate  endeavours  in  support  of  the 
nomination  of  sheriffs,  ii.  32 — in  his  principles  already  a  bi- 
shop, 33 — his  letter  to  Junius,  ibid. — the  reputation  gained  un- 
der this  signature,  draws  from  him  a  reply,  34 — he  professes 
his  readiness  to  lay  down  his  life  in  opposition  to  ministerial 
measures,  ibid. — that  he  did  not  solicit  one  vote  in  favour  of 
Messrs.  Plumber  and  Kirkman,  ibid. — letter  to  him  from 
Whipcord,  35,  note — letter  to  him  from  Junius,  37 — accused 
»f  having  soid  .'.imself  to  the  ministry,  from  his  own  letters, 
ibid. — his  mode  of  attack  on  Mr.  Wilkes  censured,  38 — parti- 
culars of  his  dispute  with  Mr.  Wilkes,  38,  et  seq.  notes — is 
censured  for  improperly  introducing  a  lady's  name  into  the 
papers,  4-> — du^edMr  Oliver, ibid.— another  letter  to  Junius, 
46 — charges  him  with  insufficiency  and  self-contradiction, 
ibid. — extract  from  one  of  his  letters  to  Mr.  Wilkes,  relative 
to  their  dispute,  47,  et  seq.  note — feels  no  reluctance  to  attack 
the  character  of  any  man,  50— that  the  darkness  in  which 
Junius  thinks  himself  shrouded  has  not  concealed  him,  53 — 
reflections  on  the  tendency  of  Junius's  principles,  ibid,  et  seq. 
— that  Mr.  Wilkes  did  commission  Mr.  Walpole  to  solicit  a 
pension  for  him,  57 — that,  according  to  Junius,  Mr.  Wilkes 
ought  to  hold  the  strings  of  his  benefactors'  purses,  so  long  as 
he  continues  to  be  a  thorn  in  the  king's  side,  58 — that  the 
leaders  of  the  opposition  refused  to  stipulate  certain  points  for 
the  public,  in  case  they  should  get  into  Administration,  59 — 
Junius's  principles  will  suit  no  form  of  government,  61 — is 
charged  by  Junius  with  changing  the  terms  of  the  proposition, 
and  supposing  him  to  assert  that  it  would  be  impossible  for 
any  man  to  write  in  the  newspapers,  and  not  be  discovered,  63 


INDEX.  483 

—Junius  allows  him  a  degree  of  merit,  that  aggravates  his 
guilt,  6  i — his  furious  persecuting  zeal  softened  into  modera- 
tion, 66 — .that  it  is  shameful  for  him  who  has  lived  in  friend- 
ship with  Mr.  Wilkes  to  reproach  him  with  failings  naturally 
connected  with  despair,  68 — a  farewell  epistle  from  Mr. 
Home  to  Junius,  72 — letter  of  Mr.  H.  to  Mr.  Onslow, 
charging  him  with  corruption,  i.  *l  19,  et  seg. — is  prosecuted 
by  the  latter,  who  is  non-suited,  *122 — Junius' s  private  opi- 
nion on  this  affair,  *124. 
Homphrey,  (Mr.)  horse-whips  the  Duke  of  Bedford,  i.  149,  note. 

I. 

Impressing  seamen.    See  Seamen. 

Influence  (undue)  of  the  crown,  how  produced,  i.  5— Scottish, 
remarks  on,  25.  201. 

Innocent  Reader,  letter  of,  to  the  printer  of  the  Public  Adver- 
tiser, ii.  440. 

Inquisitio  frost  mortem,  explanation  of  the  term,  i.  72,  note. 

Insomnis,  letter  of,  on  the  new  commission  of  the  Board  of 
Trade,  ii   235,  et  seg. — reply  to,  by  C.  237,  et  seg. 

Ireland,  people  of,  uniformly  oppressed,  i.  199— parliaments  of, 
made  octennial,  243,  and  note — satirical  account  of  a  grand 
council  convened  on  the  affairs  of  Ireland,  ii.  174,  et  seg. 

Irnham,  (Lord)  the  father  of  Colonel  Luttrell,  ii.  123 — anec- 
dotes of,  i.  *92,  note,  ii.  123,  note — his  daughter  married  to- 
me Duke  of  Cumberland,  ii.  445. 

J. 

Johnson,  (Dr.)  Extract  from  his  'Thoughts  on  Falkland's 
Islands,'  i.  273,  note. 

Judge,  one  may  be  honest  enough  in  deciding  private  causes,- 
yet  a  traitor  to  the  public,  i.  38. 

Junia,  letter  of,  to  the  printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  ii.  323— 
character  of,  and  conjectures  on,  Junius,  ibid,  et  seg. — reply  of 
Junius  to  her,  326. 

JUNIUS's  LETTERS,  preliminary  essay  on,  i.  *1 — state  of 
Europe  and  of  parties  at  home,  during  the  period  comprised 
in  these  letters,  ibid.  *2 — discontents  in  the  American  colo- 
nies, *2 — character  of,  and  effects  produced  by,  the  Letters  of 
Junius,  *3 — *5 — *16 — proofs  that  the  persons,  hitherto  sup- 
posed to  have  written  these  letters,  are  not  the  authors  of 
Vol.  H.  3  Q 


490  INDEX. 

them,  *6,  *7,  notes—- reasons  for  the  present  publication,  *7, 
*8— *1 1—  account  of  the  different  signatures  under  which 
Junius  wrote,  and  the  reasons  thereof,  with  extracts,  *8,  et  seq. 
—brief  characters  of  Sir  William  Draper  and  the  Marquis  of 
Granby,  *  16— general  account  of  the  subjects  discussed  by 
Junius,  *17,  et  seq.- the  private  situation  and  circumstances 
of  Junius,  *20,  *21,  et  seq.  *29,  *30— *32,  *33— proofs  of  his 
intimate  acquaintance  with  every  thing  connected  with  the 
court,  *22— 24 — his  secret  intelligence  respecting  public 
events,  *24 — private  signals  between  Junius  and  his  printer, 
*25,  *26 — their  private  correspondence,  *26,  *27 — attempts 
made  to  discover  Junius  by  various  persons,  *27,  *28 — re- 
marks on  Junius's  last  letter  to  Lord  Camden,  *31,  *32 — 
moral  character  of  Junius,  *34,  *35 — *4l — *43 — account  of 
the  first  genuine  edition  of  Junius,  *37— *4l — Junius's  coun- 
sel to  Mr.  Woodfall,  on  his  prosecution,  *43,  *44 — political 
principles  of  Junius,  considered,  *45,  et  seq.— proofs,  that 
Junius  was  no  party-man,  *49,  *50 — religious  opinions  of 
Junius,  *52,  *5 3— knowledge  and  rank  of  Junius,  *54— re- 
marks on  his  style,  *55 — *60 — and  knowledge  of  the  language, 
laws,  constitution,  and  history  of  his  country,  *6l — examina- 
tion of  the  claims  made  to  the  authorship  of  Junius,  *61, 
et  seq. 

I.  Private  Letters  of  Junius. 

To  Mr.  Woodfall,  on  the  publication  of  his  letters,  i.  *103, 
et  seq. — avows  the  impossibility  of  his  ever  being  known, 
*125 — to  Mr.  Garrick,  on  his  intermeddling  with  Junius,  *143, 
and  note — instructions  to  Mr.  Woodfall,  concerning  a  col- 
lected edition  of  his  letters,  *  1 45,  et  seq. — desires  to  have  one 
cofiy  bound  in  vellum,  *  152 — letter  of  Mr.  Woodfall  to  him  on 
that  subject,  *160. 

To  Mr.  Wilkes,  i.  *  1 65,  et  seq.— Junius  assures  Mr  Wilkes  of 
his  support  on  constitutional  principles,  ibid,— on  the  Bill  of 
Rights'  Society,  *166 — on  his  connexion  with  Mr  Sawbridge, 
*167,  et  seq. — Junius  proposes  a  plan  for  reconciling  them, 
*1 71— -censures  the  conduct  of  the  supporters  of  the  Bill  of 
Rights,  *  1 72,  et  seq. — examines  the  articles  of  their  declara- 
tion, *  178,  et  seq. — *  193,  et  seq. — on  the  proposed  election  of 
Mr.  Crosby,  to  be  Lord  Mayor,  *191,  et  seq.— Junius  declares 


INDEX.  491 

that  the  public  will  never  know  him,  *196 — permits  the  read- 
ing of  his  second  letter  to  the  Bill  of  Rights'  Society,  *197— 
thanks  Mr.  Wilkes  for  his  invitation  to  Guildhall  on  Lord 
Mayor's  day,  *203 — advises  him  what  line  of  conduct  to  pur- 
sue, as  sheriff,  *204 — requesting  information  on  Eyre's  com- 
mitment, *206,  *208. 

II.  Public  Letters  of  Junius. 
Junius  dedicates  his  letters  to  the  people  of  England,  i.  1— mo- 
tives for,  ibid.-— was  not  the  sole  depositary  of  his  own  secret, 
ibid,  and  note — his  motives  for  publishing  his  letters,  7— ex- 
amination of  Lord  Mansfield's  curious  doctrine  of  libels,  9,  et 
aeq.-—  letter  from,  to  the  printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  on 
the  state  of  the  nation,  and  the  different  departments  of  the 
state,  31 — letter  to  Sir  William  Draper,  45— commends  Sir 
William  D.'s  giving  his  name  to  the  public,  but  asserts  it  to 
have  been  nothing  but  spirit,  ibid. — requires  instances  of  Lord 
Granby's  military  skill,  47 — proposes  sundry  queries  to  Sir 
William,  48 — character  of,  53,  note— is  called  upon  by  Sir 
William  to  give  his  real  name,  50— another  letter  to  Sir  Wil- 
liam Draper,  60 — explains  Sir  William's  bargain  with  Colonel 
GUborne,  61 — reply  to  Sir  William  Draper,  63 — declares 
himself  to  be  a  plain,  unlettered  man,  ibid.— calls  upon  Sir 
William,  to  justify  the  declaration  of  the  sovereign  in  having 
done  an  act  in  his  favour  contrary  to  law,  6b — takes  his  leave 
of  Sir-  William,  68 — Sir  William  Draper  relinquishes  all  per- 
sonal enmiiy  against  Junius,  65,  note — letter  to  the  Duke  of 
Grafton,  68 — the  only  act  of  mercy  to  which  the  Duke  advised 
his  majesty,  meets  with  disapprobation,  69 — that  it  was  hazard- 
ing too  much,  to  interpose  the  strength  of  prerogative  between 
such  a  felon  as  Mac  Quirk  and  the  justice  of  his  country,  70 
— the  pardoning  of  Mac  Quirk,  and  the  reasons  assigned  for 
it  considered,  71,  et  sec/. — to  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  74 — that 
one  fatal  mark  seems  to  be  fixed  on  every  measure  of  his 
Grace,  whether  in  a  personal  or  political  character,  ibid.— that 
a  certain  ministerial  w  iter  does  not  defend  the  minister,  as  to 
the  pardoning  of  Mac  Quirk  on  his  own  principles,  ibid— that 
his  Grace  can  best  tell  for  which  of  Mr.  Wilkes's  good  quali- 
ties he  first  honoured  him  with  his  friendship,  76 — to  Mr. 
Edward  Weston,  77 — quotes  from  his  supposed  pamphlet, 


492  INDEX. 

with  remarks,  78 — to  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  79 — that  his 
Grace  wus  at  first  scrupulous  of  even  exercising  those  powers, 
•with  which  the  executive  power  of  the  legislature  is  invested, 
ibid. — that  he  reserved  the  proofs  of  his  intrepid  spirit  for  trials 
of  g>  eater  hazard,  83 — and  balanced  the  non-execution  of  the 
laws,  with  a  breach  of  the  constitution,  ibid. — to  the  Duke  of 
Grafton,  87 — that  his  Grace  addresses  himself  simply  to  the 
touch,  88 — speculates  upon  his  Grace's  character,  ibid. — his 
Grace'-,  character  resembles  that  of  his  royal  ancestors,  89 — 
details  the  progress  of  the  Duke's  political  career, fdirf.  et  seq.-— 
to  the  Duke  of  Gratton,  103 — if  his  talents  could  keep  pace 
•with  the  principles  of  his  heart,  he  would  have  become  a  most 
formidable  minister,  ibid  —  that  he  became  the  leader  ot  an  ad- 
ministration, gradually  collected  from  the  deseiters  of  all 
parties,  interests,  and  connexions,  105 — to  the  printer  of  the 
Public  Advertiser,  108 — attempts  to  state  with  justice  and 
precision  the  question  arising  from  Mr.  Wilkes's  expulsion, 
and  the  appointment  of  Mr.  Luttrell,  z'&d. — Mr.  Walpole's  ex- 
pulsion considered,  and  the  case  of  his  re-election,  how  far  in 
point,  ll'l^etaeg. — to  Sir  William  Blackstone,  120 — a  certain 
pamphlet  in  vindication  of  his  conduct,  considered, ibj.d. — Mr. 
Grenville  and  Sir  William  Meredith,  delended  from  some  as- 
persions in  this  pamphlet,  121,  et  sec/. — to  the  printer  of  the 
Public  Advertiser,  133 — that  the  author  of  a  certain  pamphlet, 
in  defence  of  the  proceedings  relative  to  the  Middlesex  elec- 
tion, quotes  only  such  parts  of  Mr.  Walpole's  case  as  seemed 
adapted  to  his  purpose,  134 — that  the  house  of  commons 
meant  to  declare  that  Mr.  Walpole's  incapacity  arose  from  the 
crimes  he  had  committed,  135,  et  seq. — they  also  declared  the 
other  candidate  not  duly  elected,  138 — explains  some  pas- 
sages in  his  last  letter,  140 — to  the  Duke  of  Bedford,  145—— 
causes  of  his  Grace's  unpopularity,  ibid,  note — that  he  has  lost 
much  of  his  authority  and  importance,  148,  et  seq.— impor- 
tance of  his  mission  to  Versailles,  150 — those  who  are  ac- 
quainted with  his  Grace's  pecuniary  character,  suspect  that 
such  sacrifices  would  not  have  been  made  without  some  pri- 
vate compensations,  15  1— stipulations  made  between  him  and 
Lord  B  te,  ami  violated,  ibid.-—  the  measures  he  took  to  ob- 
tain and  confirm  his  power  considered,  152,  et  seq. — to  Sir 
W  illiam  Draper,  157 — that,  after  attacking  Junius  under  ihat 
character,  he  had  no  right  to  know  him  under  any  other,  ibid. 


INDEX.  493 

—that  Sir  William  was  appointed  colonel  of  a  regiment 
greatly  out  of  his  turn,  158 — Junius  does  noi  think  it  neces- 
sary he  should  be  exposed  to  the  resentment  of  the  worst  and 
most  powerful  men  in  the  country,  ibid. — to  the  printer  of  the 
Public  Advertiser,  163 — Sir  William  still  continues  a  fatal 
friend,  164 — the  Duke  of  Bedford's  liberality  stated,  165 — to 
the  printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  170 — applauds  the  spirit 
with  which  a  lady  has  paid  the  debt  of  gratitude  to  her  bene- 
factor, ibid. — this  single  act  of  benevolence  the  more  conspicu- 
ous from  standing  alone,  ibid. — to  the  printer  of  the  Public 
Advertiser,  175— the  present  ministry  as  s  ngularly  marked 
by  their  fortune  as  their  crimes,  ibid. — and  seem  determined 
to  perplex  us  with  the  multitude  of  their  offences,  z'6/r/.— a  ma- 
jor-general of  the  army  arrested  for  a  considerable  debt,  and 
rescued  by  a  Serjeant  and  some  private  soldiers.  176 — that 
this  is  a  wound  given  to  the  law,  and  no  remedy  has  been  ap- 
plied. 177 — the  main  question  is,  how  the  ministry  have  acted 
on  this  occasion,  it/id. — the  aggravating  circumstances  of  this 
affair  stated,  178 — that  the  regiments  of  guards,  as  a  corps, 
are  neither  good  soldiers  nor  good  subjects,  ibid. — that  the 
marching  regiments  are  the  best  troops  in  the  world,  179— 
Junius  vindicates  himself  from  the  charge  of  inflaming  the 
minds  of  the  people,  180 — to  the  printer  of  the  Public  Adver- 
tiser, 184 — admits  the  claim  of  Modestus  in  the  (iazeteer, 
ibid. — that  Modestus  having  insinuated,  that  the  offender*  in 
the  rescue  may  still  be  brought  to  trial,  any  attempt  to  pre- 
judge the  cause  would  be  highly  improper,  ibid. — that,  if  the 
gentlemen  whose  conduct  is  in  question  be  not  brought  to 
trial,  the  Duke  of  Grafton  shall  hear  from  him  again,  185 — 
leaves  it  to  his  countrymen  to  determine  by  what  motives  he 
is  animated,  ibid. — to  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  ibid. — he  gives  the 
Duke  credit  for  his  discretion  in  refusing  Mr.  Vaughan's  pro- 
posals, 186 — inquires  the  price  of  Mr.  Hine's  patent,  ibid,. — 
and  whether  his  Grace  dares  to  complain  of  an  attack  upon 
his  own  honour  while  he  is  selling  the  favours  of  the  crown, 
ibid. — to  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  187 — is  surprized  at  the  silence 
of  his  Grace's  friends  to  the  charge  of  having  sold  a  patent 

place,  ibid — the   price  at  which  it  was  knocked  down,  ibid 

none  of  his  Grace's  friends  are  bold  enough  to  deny  this 
charge,  188 — that  Mr.  Vaughan's  offer  amounted  to  a  high 
misdemeanour,  190 — to  the  printer  of  tht.  Public  Advertiser, 


494  INDEX. 

191 — Junius  .supposes  a  well-intentioned  prince  asking  advice 
for  the  happiness  of  his  subjects,  192 — and  in  what  terms  aa 
honest  man,  if  permitted  to  approach  his  sovereign,  would  ad- 
dress him,  ibid. — separates  the  amiable  prince  from  the  folly 
and  treachery  of  his  servants,  194 — that  the  king  should  dis- 
tinguish between  his  own  dignity  and  what  serves  only  to  pro- 
mote the  interest  and  ambition  of  a  minister,  ibid. — that  he 
should  withdraw  his  confidence  from  all  parties,  and  consult 
only  his  own  understanding,  ibid. — that  there  is  an  original  bias 
in  his  education,  195— that  a  little  personal  motive  was  suffi- 
cient to  displace  the  ablest  advocates  of  the  crown,  ibid. — that 
Mr  Wilkes,  when  he  attacked  the  favourite,  was  unworthy  of 
a  king's  royal  resentment,  196— that  the  destruction  of  one 
man  was,  for  many  years,  the  sole  object  of  government,  ibid.-—. 
that  his  ministers  have  forced  the  subjects,  from  wishing  well 
to  the  cause  of  one  man,  to  unite  with  him  in  their  own,  198 
—that  nothing  but  the  repeal  of  a  certain  resolution  can  heal 
the  wound  given  to  the  constitution,  ibid. — if  an  English  king 
be  hated  or  despised,  he  must  be  unhappy,  199 — that  it  is  in 
vain  for  the  king  to  look  for  assistance  either  from  Ireland  or 
from  the  Colonies,  201 — that  the  king  takes  the  sense  of  the 
army  from  the  conduct  of  the  Guards,  as  he  does  that  of 
the  people  from  the  representations  of  the  ministry,  202 — 
that  the  house  of  commons  have  attributed  to  their  own  vote 
an  authority,  equal  to  an  act  of  the  legislature,  204 — recom- 
mends to  the  king  a  line  of  conduct  towards  Mr.  Wilkes,  205 
— to  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  208 — in  his  public  character  he  has 
injured  every  subject  in  the  empire,  209 — at  the  most  active 
period  of  life,  he  must  quit  the  busy  scene,  and  conceal  him- 
self from  the  world,  210 — the  situation,  in  which  he  abandoned 
the  king,  213 — that  he  either  differed  from  his  colleagues,  or 
thought  the  administration  no  longer  tenable,  ibid. — that  he 
began  with  betraying  the  people,  and  concluded  with  betray- 
ing the  king,  214 — vindicates  Mr.  Vaughan,  as  a  much  in- 
jured man,  215 — takes  his  leave  of  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  ibid. 
— to  the  printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  217— the  king's 
answer  to  the  city  remonstrance  considered,  ibid,  et  seg.— the 
grievances  of  the  people  aggravated  by  insults,  219— the  city 
of  London  have  set  an  example,  worthy  to  be  followed  by  the 
whole  kingdom,  222 — if  any  part  of  the  representative  body  be 
not  chosen  by  the  people,  that  part  vitiates  and  corrupts  the 


INDEX.  495 

whole,  224 — instead  of  answering  the  city's  petition,  his  ma- 
jesty pronounces  his  own   panegyric,   225— whether  the  re- 
monstrance be  or  be  not  injurious  to  parliament,  is  the  very- 
question  between  parliament  and  the  people,  ibid. — .the  city  of 
London  has  not  desired  the  king  to  assume  a  power  placed  in 
other  hands,  227 — they  call  upon  him  to  make  use  of  his  law- 
ful prerogative,  228 — to  the  printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser, 
229 — that  the  king's  answer  to  the  city  of  London  is  only  the 
sentiment  of  the  minister,  ibid.— the  consequences  of  which, 
however,  materially  affect   his  majesty's  honour,  ibid. — who 
should  never  appear  but  in  an  amiable  light  to  his  subjects, 
230 — an  appeal  to  his  majesty's   judgment,  234 — addresses 
from  parliament,  considered  as  a  fashionable  unmeaning  for- 
mality, ibid.-— their  consequences  considered,  when  supposed 
to  mean  what  they  profess,  ibid.-— to  the  printer  of  the  Public 
Advertiser,  235 — while  parliament  was  sitting,  it  would  have 
been  neither  sate  nor  regular  to  have  offered  any  opinion  on 
their  proceedings,  ibid. — we  had  a  right  to  expect  something 
from  their  prudence,  and  something  from  their  fears,  236— 
the  majority  of  the  house  of  lords  join  with  the  other  house, 
239 — they  would  hardly  have  yielded  so  much  to  the  other 
house,  without  the  certainty  of  a  compensation,  240 — they  did 
Bot  vindicate  their  own  dignity  when  grossly  attacked,  241  — 
strictures  on  the  business  of  the  session  after  voting  the  sup- 
plies, 242,  et  seq. — the  king's  situation  after  proroguing  the 
parliament,  245 — to  Lord  North,  247 — the  honour  of  reward- 
ing Mr.  Luttrell's  services  reserved  for  his  Lordship,  ibid. — 
whom  he  calls  upon,  to  tell  the  country  who  advised  the  king 
to  appoint  Colonel  Luttrell  adjutant-general  to  the  army  of 
Ireland,  248 — to  Lord  Mansfield,  251 — danger  of  writing  to 
his  Lordship,  who  is  both  judge  and  party,  ibid. — a  tribute  paid 
to  his  Scotch  sincerity,  ibid. — anecdotes  of  his  Lordship,  252, 
note— that  his   Lordship  consoles  himself  for  the  loss  of  a 
favourite  family,  by  reviving  the   maxims  of  their  govern- 
ment, 253 — his  maxims  of  jurisprudence  direct  his  interpre- 
tation of  the  law  and  the  treatment  of  juries,  ibid. — that  the 
court  of  king's  bench  thereby  becomes  a  court  of  equity,  254 — 
his  conduct  with  regard  to  Bingley's  affair,  256,  and  note — 
charges  his  lordship  with  invading  the  province  of  the  jury  in 
matter  of  libeh  257 — his  lordship's  charge  to  the  jury,  in  the 
prosecution  of  Almon  and  YYoodlall,  contradicted  the  highest 


496  INDEX. 

legal  authorities,  260 — that  he  ordered  a  special  juryman  to 
be  set  aside,  without  any  legal  objection,  262 — is  accused  of 
having  done  great  mischief  to  this  country  as  a  minister,  ibid. 
— to  the  printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  265 — violence  and 
treachery  at  home   supported  by  treachery  and  submission, 
abroad,  ibid. — the   expedition  of  the  Spaniards  against  Port 
Egmont,   266 — his   majesty's    ship    detained   in    port   above 
twenty  days,  267 — the  king's  speech,  Nov.  1770,  considered, 
ibid. — if  the  actual   situation  of  Europe  be  considered,  when 
the  affair  of  Port  Egmont   happened,   the  treachery  of  the 
king's  servants  will  appear  in  the  strongest  colours,  270 — a 
most  favourable  opportunity  is  lost,  ibid.— -the  affair  of  Port 
Fgmont  affords  materials  for  a  fable,  271 — to  the  printer  of 
the  Public  Advertiser,  ii.   1 — we  have  nothing  to  apprehend 
from  prerogative,  but  much  from  undue  influence,  3 — our  po- 
litical climate,  severely  altered,  4 — the  nature  and  origin  of 
privileges  traced  and  considered,  5 — to  the  Duke  of  Grafton* 
24 — that  the  king  would  in  vain  have  looked  round  the  king- 
dom for  a  character  so  consummate  as  that  of  his  Grace,  25— 
that  his  Grace  did  not  neglect  the  magistrate  while  he  flat- 
tered the  man,  26 — that  his  Grace  has  abundance  of  other 
merit,  to  recommend  him  to  the  sovereign,  ibid — to  the  Duke 
of  Grafton,  28 — that  he  never  formed  a  friendship,  that  did  not 
prove  fatal  to  the  object  of  it,  ibid.— his  Grace's  services  to  his 
royal  master  have  been  faithfully  recorded,  29— his  Grace's 
re-appointment  to  a  seat  in  the  cabinet,  how  announced  to  the 
public,  30 — that  his  Grace  is  the  pillow,  upon  which  he  is  de- 
termined to  rest  all  his  resentments,   33 — to  the  Rev.  Mr. 
Home,  37 — concludes  from   Mr.  Home's  own  letters,  that  he 
sold  himself  to  the  ministry,  ibid. — censures  his  attack  on  Mr. 
Vv  Ikes,  38 — and  his  improper  introduction  of  a  lady's  name 
into  the  papers,  45 — to  the  printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser, 
62 — if  any  coarse  expressions  have  escaped  Junius,  he'agrees 
that  they  are  unfit  for  his  pen,  but  they  may  not  have  been  im- 
pi    pei  ly  applied,  ibid.-— that,  upon  Mr.  Home's  terms,  there 
is  \h>  danger  in  being  a  patriot,  65— by  what  gentle  degrees 
his  persecuting  spirit  has  been  softened  into  moderation,  66— 
c  uses  of  Junius's  detestation  of  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  67 — a 
farewell  letter  to  Junius  from  Mr.  Home,  72 — Junius  to  the 
Dike  of  Grafton,  73 — that  his  Gnce  has  done  as  much  mis- 
chief to  the  community  as  Cromwell  would  have  done,  if  he 


INDEX.  497 

had  been  a  coward,  ibid. — the  enormous  excesses,  through 
which  court  influence  has  safely  conducted  his  Grace,  without 
a  ray  of  real  understanding,  ibid. — it  is  like  the  universal  pass- 
port of  our  ambassador,  74 — his  majesty  in  want  f  money, 
and  the  navy  in  want  of  timber,  76 — a  warrant  issued  for  cut- 
ting down  trees  in  Whiltlebury  forest,  of  which  his  Grace  is 
hereditary  ranger,  ibid — his  Grace's  behaviour  on  this  occa- 
sion, 77 — the  oaks  keep  their  ground,  and  the  king  is  de- 
frauded, ibid. — to  the  livery  of  London,  83 — the  election  of  a 
chief  magistrate,  a  point  in  which  every  member  of  the  com- 
munity is  interested,  84 — that  the  question,  to  those  who  mean 
fairly  to  the  liberties  of  the  people,  lies  in  a  narrow  compass, 
86 — Mr.  Nash's  character,  as  a  public  man  and  a  magistrate, 
ibid.— he  cannot  alter  his  conduct  without  confessing  that  he 
never  acted  on  principle  of  any  kind,  ibid. — to  the  printer  of 
the  Public  Advertiser,  87— Junius  laments  the  unhappy  dif- 
ferences which  have  arisen  among  the  friends  of  the  people, 
ibid. — the  insidious  partisan,  who  foments  the  disorder,  sees 
the  fruit  of  his  dishonest  industry  ripen  beyond  his  hopes, 
ibid. — that  Mr.  Wilkes  has  no  resource  but  in  the  public 
favour,  89 — that  Mr.  Alderman  Sawbridge  has  evinced  that 
republican  firmness  which  the  times  require,  90 — the  right  of 
pressing  seamen  founded  originally  upon  a  necessity  that  su- 
persedes all  argument,  91— .the  designs  and  conduct  of  Lord 
Mansfield  further  investigated,  93,  et  6eq. — patriotism  is  capa- 
ble of  being  improved  by  transplanting,  95 — to  the  printer  of 
the  Public  Advertiser,  117 — Junius  vindicates  himself  from, 
the  charge  of  misrepresentations,  1 17,  et  seq  — to  Lord  Mans- 
field, 120 — charges  his  lordship  with  doing  an  illegal  act  in 
bailing  Eyre,  ibid. — Junius  engages  to  make  good  this  chaige, 
121 — to  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  122 — on  the  miserable  depres- 
sion of  the  Duke,  when  almost  every  man  in  the  kingdom  was 
exulting  at  Sir  James  Lowther's  defeat,  ibid.-—  that  he  violates 
his  own  rules  of  decorum,  when  he  does  not  insult  the  man 
whom  he  has  betrayed,  123 — to  Lord  Mansfield,  126 — that 
the  superior  power  of  bailing  for  felony,  in  the  court  of  kind's 
bench,  has  only  the  negative  assent  of  the  legislature,  127— 
that  a  person,  positively  charg  :  with  felo.  iously  stealing,  and 
taken  with  the  stolen  goods  upon  him,  is  not  bailable,  128— 
the  law  stated,  129— the  several  statutes  relative  to  bail,  stated 
in  due  order,  130,  el  $crj.~ the  law  as  stated,  applied  to  the 
Vol.  II.  3  ki 


498  INDEX. 

case  of  John  Eyre,  who  was  committed  for  felony,  143— to  the 
Right  Hon.  Lord  Camden,  147 — Junius  calls  on  his  Lordship 
to  stand  forth  in  defence  of  the  laws  of  his  country,  ibid.— ex- 
tract of  a  letter  from  Junius  to  Mr.  Wilkes,  149— Junius  re- 
nounces his  hostility  to  Lord  Chatham,  197,  and  note— appa- 
rent inconsistencies  in  his  conduct,  accounted  for,212,  note — to 
the  printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  309 — the  treatment  of  Mr. 
Wilkes,  considered,  in  the  affair  of  general  warrants,  ibid.— 
to  the  same,  314— on  the  monody  written  on  his  supposed 
death,  id.  et  icy.— exaggerated  character  of  Junius  by  Silurus, 
316,  note— character  of,  and  conjectures  on,  Junius,  by  Junia, 
323,  et  seq. — Junius's  reply  to  her,  326 — Junius's  attack  on 
Lord  Mansfield's  doctrine,  in  the  Grosvenor  cause,  defended, 
383. 

References  to  other  letters  of  Junius,  will  be  found  in  this  index 
under  the  following  articles,  viz.  A.  B.,  Amicus  Curie,  Anony- 
mous Letters,  Anti-Belial,  Anti-Fox,  Anti-Sejanus,  Anti-Van- 
Ttague,  Atticus,  Augur,  Bifrons,  Brutus,  C,  Corrector,  Cor- 
reggio,  Crito,  Cumbriensis,  Domitian,  Downright,  Henricus, 
Junifier^  L.  L,,  Mnemon,  Moderator,  Moderatus,  Nemesis, 
Phalaris,  Philo- Junius,  Tell-Truth,  Tem/iorum  Felicitas,  Testi- 
culus,  Titus,  Valerian,  Veteran,  X.  X.,  Y.  Z. 

Jury,  examination  of  Lord  Mansfield's  charge  to,  on  the  trial  of 
Mr.  Wood  fall,  i.  10,  et  seq. — their  functions  defined,  23 — juries 
have  the  full  power  of  judging  both  of  the  law  and  the  fact, 
257,  note. 

Juniper's  letter,  in  vindication  of  Junius,  ii.  447. 

Justice,  impartial  administration  of,  the  firmest  security  of  a  gov- 
ernment, i.  38— letter  from,  vindicating  the  Duke  of  Grafton, 
188,  notes. 

K. 

Kennedys,  (Matthew  and  Patrick)  condemned  for  murder,  but 
pardoned  at  the  intercession  of  a  prostitute]  i.  247,  and  note. 

King,  the  power  of  king,  lords,  and  commons  proved  not  to  be 
an  arbitrary  power,  i.  3,  and  note — the  maxim,  '  that  the  king 
can  do  no  'wrong,'  examined,  26.  194 — mismanagement  of  his 
affairs  in  the  house  of  commons,  35 — favourable  auspices 
with  which  he  commenced  his  reign,  95 — Junius's  letter  to 
him.,  193,  et  seq.— extract  from  his  majesty's  speech,  Nov  13> 
1760,  193,  note — extract  of  his  speech,  in  1767,  ii.  187,  nete— • 


INT>EX.  499 

fictitious  disruss;on  of,  188,  e-  s  ".—answers  of,  to  the  ad- 
dresses and  remonstrances  of  pailiame.it,  and  of  the  city  of 
London,  i.  218,  et  seq.  notes-—  his  speech,  Nov.  1770,  consi- 
dered, 267 — particulars  of  his  majesty's  dispute  with  the  city, 
ii.  349,  et  seq.  notes — remarks  thereon  by  Moderatus,  349,  et 
acq  —the  king  cannot  change  the  law  by  his  proclamation, 
407— conversation  of  his  majesty  with  Lord  Barrington,  456. 

L. 

L.  L.  letter  of,  to  the  printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  ii.  243— 
on  Sir  Jeffery  Amherst's  dismission  from  his  government,  244. 

Land  Tax  Act,  validity  of,  questioned  by  Mr.  Alderman  Town- 
send,  ii.  355,  note — abstract  of  the  trial  of  this  question,  ibid, 
notes. 

Laws  of  England  grow  out  of  the  constitution,  i.  2. 

Lee,  (General)  examination  of  his  claims  to  the  authorship  of 
Junius's  letters,  i.  *75,  et  seq. — proved  not  to  have  written 
them,    81,  et  seq. 

Legge,  (Mr.)  dismissed  from  office,  for  party  purposes,  i.  1 95, 
note. 

Legislature,  not  vested  with  arbitrary  power,  i.  3,  and  note. 

Libel,  vilifying  the  house  of  commons  or  its  members,  punishable 
as  severely  in  the  king's  bench  as  one  upon  the  king,  ii.  9. 

Liberty  of  the  press,  the  palladium  of  British  rights,  i.  3,  et  seq. 
—strictures  on,  8,  et  seq.— remarks  on,  by  De  Lolme,  28,  29. 

Licentiousness  of  the  press,  charge  of,  examined,  i.  9,  et  seq. 

Ligonier,  (Lord)  the  command  of  the  army  taken  from  him 
against  his  inclination,  i.  48. 

Livery  of  London,  letter  to,  on  the  choice  of  a  chief  magistrate, 
ii.  83,  et  seq. 

Lloyd,  (Charles)  proof  that  he  was  not  the  writer  of  the  letters 
of  Junius,  i.  *62. 

London,  (City  of)  has  given  an  example  in  what  manner  a  king  of 
this  country  should  be  addressed,  i.  Iu7.  217,  etseq.—. addresses 
of,  considered,  ibid. — copies  of  the  addresses,  remonstrances, 
and  petitions,  to  the  king,  117,  etseq.  notes — particulars  of 
their  dispute  with  the  king,  ii.  349,  notes— remarks  thereon, 
ibid.— strictures  on  their  remonstrance,  361 — vote  of  thanks  to 
Lord  Chatham,  fo'-  his  declaration  in  favour  of  short  parlia= 
ments,  ii.  60,  note— petition  of,  on  the  embezzlement  of  pub- 


500  INDEX. 

lie  treasure,  i.  *109,  et  seq. — reply  thereto  by  Lord  Holland, 
*1  M. 

Lords  and  Commons,  powers  of,  defined,  i.  3. 

Lords,  (House  of)  order  all  strangers  to  be  excluded,  ii.  3,70. 

Lottery,  the  worst  possible  way  of  raising  money,  i.  35. 

Loyalty,  nature  of,  defined,  i.  31. 

Lowther,  (Sir  James)  his  interest  in  the  county  of  Cumberland 
ruined  by  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  i.  74 — his  litigious  spirit  dis- 
played in  the  county  of  Cumberland,  ii.  79,  note-—  nonsuited  in 
his  cause  against  the  Duke  of  Portland,  81,  note— letters  rela- 
tive to  his  grant,  2'  0,  er.  seq. 

Lucius,  letter  of,  to  the  printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  ii.  249 
—Lord  Hillsborough's  conduct  towards  Sir  J.  Amherst  con- 
sidered, 250— letter  to  his  lordship  on  the  same  subject,  258, 
et  seq — to  Lord  Hillsborough.  265— his  lordship's  negotiation 
"with  Sir  J.  Amherst,  examined,  ibid,  et  seq. — reply  of  Cleo- 
phas,  272 — to  the  Earl  of  Hillsborough,  in  refutation  of  Cleo- 
phas.  275 — the  same  subject  continued,  279— to  the  same, 
283 — there  is  no  surer  sign  of  a  weak  head,  than  a  settled  de- 
pravity of  heart.  283 — strictures  on  his  lordship's  system  of 
morals,  284— his  lordship's  advice  to  the  governors  of  the 
colonies  considered.  284 — list  of  epithets  applied  by  his  lord- 
ship io  Lucius,  285 — Lucius  to  the  Earl  of  Hillsborough,  286 
—reply  to  his  lordship's  letter  in  the  Gazetteer,  287. 

LuttretL  (Mr.)  successfully  patronised  by  the  Duke  of  Grafton, 
j.  83— his  arbitrary  appointment  a  violation  of  the  constitu- 
tion, 106 — the  question  arising  from  Mr.  Wilkes's  expulsion, 
and  Mr.  L.'s  appointment,  attempted  to  be  stated  with  justice 
and  precision,  108,  et  seq. — Lord  Camden's  manly  disapproba- 
tion ot  the  proceedings  of  the  house  of  commons  concerning 
him,  212,  note—- further  observations  on  his  being  seated  in 
parliament  to  the  exclusion  of  Mr.  Wilkes,  ii.  362 — strictures 
on  his  appointment  to  be  adjutant-general  of  Ireland,  i.  248, 
and  note-— he  resigns  that  office,  250,  note. 

Lynn,  burgesses  of,  re-elect  Mr.  Walpolc,  after  being  expelled; 
i.  113. 

M. 

Mackenzie,  (Mr.  Stuart)  biographical  notice  of,  i.  92,  note. 

Macpherson,  (Sir  J'lhn)  monody  on  Junius,  ii.  315,  note. 

Mutteane,  ^Mr.  L.j  account  of,  ii.  402,  note. 


INDEX.  501 

Mac  Quirky  (Edward)  charged  with  murder  at  the  Middlesex 
election,  i.  69,  note— his  majesty's  warrant  for  pardoning  him, 
70,  note — the  pardoning  of  him  much  censured,  70 — the  rea- 
sons assigned  for  it,  examined  and  refuted,  ibid,  et  seg. — the 
Duke  of  Grafton's  conduct  in  this  affair,  considered  hy  Sim- 
plex, ii.  318,  et  seg. 

Malone,  (Mr.)  examination  of  his  evidence  to  prove  that  Mr. 
Hamilton  did  not  write  Junius's  letters,  i.  *72. 

Manilla  ransom,  dishonourably  given  up,  i.  46 — notice  of,  ibid, 
note  f. 

Mansfield,  (Lord)  anecdotes  of,  i.  252,  note— .strictures  on  his 
charge  to  the  jury,  in  the  case  of  libels,  10,  et  seg. — his  charge 
to  the  jury,  on  the  trial  of  Mr.  Woodfall,  for  publishing  the 
letters  of  Junius,  11,  notes— queries  proposed  to  him  in  the 
house  of  lords  thereupon,  by  Lord  Camden,  12,  «ote-~his  ex- 
traordinary dictum,  in  giving  the  opinion  of  the  court  of  king's 
bench,  1 9,  et  seg  note — extract  from  his  eloquent  speech  on  re- 
versal of  Mr.  Wilkes's  outlawry,  80,  note — speech  on  the  pro- 
secution of  Mr.  Vaughan,  190,  note — Junius  pays  a  tribute  to 
his  Scotch  sincerity,  251 — that  his  lordship  had  some  attach- 
ments, which  he  took  every  opportunity  to  acknowledge,  ibid. 
—is  charged  with  reviving  the  maxims  of  government  of  his 
favourite  family,  253 — and  with  following  a  uniform  plan  of 
enlarging  the  power  of  the  crown  at  the  subjects'  expense, 
ibid. — that  he  labours  to  contract  the  power  of  the  jury,  or  to 
mislead  their  judgment,  ibid. — that,  instead  of  positive  rules 
which  should  determine  a  court,  he  has  introduced  his  own 
unsettled  notions  of  equity,  254 — his  conduct  in  regard  to 
Bingley's  confinement  and  release,  255,  256 — his  charge  t® 
the  jury,  contradicts  the  highest  legal  authorities,  257,  et  seg. 
—is  reminded  of  the  name  of  Benson,  262 — charged  with 
doing  much  mischief  to  this  country  as  a  minister,  ibid. — and 
with  supporting  a  ministry,  which  he  knew  to  be  odious,  and 
spoke  of  sometimes  with  contempt,  263 — his  suspicious  ap- 
plause of  lord  Chatham,  ii.  103,  et  seg. — his  reasons  for  chal- 
lenging a  juryman,  106 — is  defended  by  Solicitor-General 
Thurlow,  ibid.  note—\s  accused  of  endeavouring  to  screen  the 
king's  brother.  107 — and  of  introducing  new  practices  into  the 
court  of  king's  benchj  ibid. — is  charged  by  Junius  with  bailing 
a  man  not  bailable  by  the  law  of  the  land,  126 — Lord  Camden 
accepts  his  challenge  to  discuss  the  doctrine  laid  down  by  the 


502  INDEX. 

king's  bench  in  Woodfall's  case,  371 — Lord  Mansfield  refuses 
to  answer  his  lordship,  373 — his  conduct  on  Mr.  Woodfall's 
trial  defended  by  Nerva,  373,  et  seq.  notes — attacked  by  Pha- 
laris,  373,  et  seq. — report  of  his  lordship's  decision  in  the  case 
ef  Meares  and  Shepley  against  Ansell,  i.  *150,  note. 

Measures  and  not  min,  the  common  cant  of  affected  moderation, 
i.  "59 — a  quotation  from  Pope  on  this  subject,  160,  note. 

Meredith.  (Sir  William)  vindicated  from  some  aspersions  thrown 
out  against  him,  in  a  pamphlet  written  in  defence  of  Sir  Wm. 
Bluckstone,  i.  122,  et  seq. 

Mcssala,  letter  of,  vindicating  the  Duke  of  Grafton's  conduct  to- 
wards the  Duke  of  Rutland,  ii.  332. 

Middlesex. Election,  proceedings  of  parliament  in,  censured  by 
the  Marquis  of  Granby,  i.  66.  note—- sheriffs  of,  discharged 
their  duty  in  returning  Mr.  Wilkes,  85— account  of  his  suc- 
cessive re-elections  for  this  county,  83,  notes — the  arbitrary 
election  of  Mr.  Luttrell,  a  violation  of  the  constitution,  106— 
this  election  considered,  1 14,  and  notes,  ii.  354— pet-tion  of  the 
freeholders  of  l  his  county  to  the  king,  in  consequence  of  the 
decision  of  the  house  of  commons  on  the  Middlesex  election, 
i.  *104,  et  seq.  notes. 

Ministry,  arrangement  of,  in  1769,  i.  32,  note. 

Ministers.  To  be  acquainted  with  their  merit  it  is  sufficient  to 
observe  the  condition  of  the  people,  i.  32— their  misconduct 
is  the  cause  of  the  sudden  and  extraordinary  change  within 
these  few  years  in  Great  Britain,  ibid. — the  conduct  and  charac- 
ter of  ministers,  the  real  cause  of  national  calamities,  46 — a 
minister  in  this  country,  who  is  determined  to  do  wrong,  must 
be  a  man  of  abilities  and  courage,  ii.  196 — ministers  are  called 
upon  to  answer  for  the  excesses  attendant  on  Mr.  Wilkes's 
election,  213,  et  seq — their  conduct  towards  him  fully  consi- 
dered. 21 1,  et  seq. — they  produce  him  once  more  on  the  stage, 
in  order  to  keep  Lord  Bute  in  order,  215 — duplicity  their 
predominant  virtue,  221 — illustrated  in  their  conduct  towards 
the  Duke  of  Portland,  222 — their  endeavours  to  make  us 
happy  have  been  equally  indefatigable  and  ingenious,  224-— are 
charged  by  Valerius,  with  violating  the  rights  of  long  and  un- 
disputed possession,  for  the  purposes  of  undue  influence  at  an 
election,  and  of  paying  a  base  court  to  a  clandestine  and  dan- 
gerous power,  226 — the  line  of  conduct  stated,  which  they 
eught  to  have  pursued  in  the  Duke  of  Portland's  case,  229— 


INDEX.  503 

their  conduct  towards  Sir  J.  Amherst,  considered,  241,  et  seg. 
—do  not  always  tell  the  truth,  even  to  their  most  intimate 
friends,  303. 

Mnemon,  letters  of,  to  the  printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  ii. 
200 — that  the  people  of  England  are  by  nature  phlegmatic, 
ibid.— the  principle,  that  no  length  of  possession  secures 
against  the  claim  of  the  crown,  controverted,  202 — to  the 
printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  203 — the  maxim,  nullum 
temfius  occurrit  regi,  further  discussed,  204,  et  seg. 

Moderator,  letter  of,  to  the  printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  ii. 
170 — strictures  on  the  contest  between  Philo-Veritatis  and  No 
Ghost,  on  Lord  Townshend's  bravery,  ibid,  et  seg. 

Moderatus,  letter  of,  to  the  printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  ii. 
349 — strictures  on  the  king's  dispute  with  the  city  of  London, 
ibid,  notes. 

Modestus,  charges  Junius  with  absurdity  in  his  writings,  i.  171 — 
cannot  distinguish  between  a  scarcasm  and  a  contradiction, 
ibid.— is  charged  with  misquoting  what  Junius  says  of  con- 
science, and  making  the  sentence  ridiculous  by  making  it  his 
own,  173 — who  was  the  real  writer  under  the  signature  of 
Modestus,  171,  note — remarks  on  his  contest  with  Junius,  ii. 
337 — another  letter  of  Modestus  to  Junius,  341— strictures  on 
the  conduct  of  Captains  Garth  and  Dodd,  342,  et  seg. 

Monody  on  Junius,  ii.  315,  note. 

Montesquieu,  maxim  of,  i.  69,  note. 

Moore,  (Sir  John)  has  a  pension  of  500/.  per  ann.  i.  95,  and  note 
—query  concerning  it,  97. 

Morris,  (Mr.)  speech  of,  on  the  arrest  of  printers  for  printing 
the  debates  in  parliament,  ii.  411,  note. 

Musgrave,  (Dr.)  firmness  and  integrity  of,  before  the  House  of 
Commons,  i.  241,  and  note. 

N 
Nash,  (Mr  )  considerations  on  his  character  as  a  magistrate,  and 

as  a  public  man,  ii.  86 — is  elected  lord  mayor,  ibid,  note — state 

of  the  poll  at  his  election,  i.  *172,  note. 
Nation,  when  its  safety  is  at  stake,  suspicion  is  a  sufficient  ground 

for  inquiry,  i.  32. 
Navy,  woeful  state  of,  in  1771,  ii.  76,  and  note. 
Nemesis,  letter  of,  to  the  printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  ii.  467 

—memoirs  of  Lord  Barrington,  468,  et  seg. 


504  INDEX. 

Nerva,  letter  of,  to  the  printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  ii.  373, 
note— vindicates  Lord  Mansfield's  conduct  in  the  house  of 
lords,  373 — 376.  notes. 

Newberry's  edition  of  Junius,  remarks  on,  i   *107,  *108. 

Noblemen,  (Young)  advantage  of  their  entering  into  the  army,  i. 
57. 

North,  (Lord)  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer,  i.  34 — is  admonished 
to  think  seriously  before  he  increases  the  public  debt,  ibid.—- 
the  palm  of  ministerial  firmness  transferred  to  him,  216— 
description  of  his  person,  234 — had  the  means  of  reducing  the 
four  per  cents  at  once,  244 — but  loses  the  opportunity,  ibid. 
and  note — the  honour  of  rewarding  Colonel  Luttrell's  services 
reserved  for  him,  247 — is  called  upon  by  Junius  to  tell  who 
advised  his  majesty  m  appoint  Colonel  Luttrell  adjutant-ge- 
neral of  Ireland,  248 — he  shall  not  have  time  to  new-model 
the  Irish  army,  249 — Lord  North's  defence  of  himself,  rela- 
tive to  Sir  Wm.  Lowther's  grant,  ii.  206,  note — political  por- 
trait of  him,  297 — his  remarks  on  the  letters  of  Junius,  i  *4, 
note — letter  to,  on  the  choice  of  his  friends,  and  ministerial 
conduct,  *  1 38,  note. 

Northington,  (Lord  Chancellor)  portrait  of,  by  Junius,  ii.  168. 

Noye,  (Mr.  Attorney-General)  his  opinion  of  the  privilege  of  the 
House  of  Commons  to  commit  for  contempt,  ii.  20. 

Nullum  temftus  occurrit  regi.  This  maxim  examined  and  ex- 
posed, ii.  204,  et  seq. — investigated  by  C.  (Junius),  216— it 
could  only  be  true  under  the  feudal  government,  218. 

O. 

Old  Noll,  destined  to  be  the  ruin  of  the  house  of  Stuart,  i.  98— 
grants  that  Corsica  has  been  sacrificed  to  the  French,  102 — a 
nick-name  of  Oliver  Cromwell,  99,  note. 

Onslow,  (Mr.)  letters  to  Mr.  Wilkes,  ii.  334,  and  notes — threa- 
tens to  prosecute  Mr.  Woodfall  for  printing  a  libel  on  his 
character,  i.  *  10  — correspondence  of,  on  this  subject,  *116, 
et  seq.'-— letter  to  him  by  Mr.  Home,  *1 19 — *i21 — whom  he 
sues,  but  is  nonsuited,  *122—Junius's //m/a^e  opinion  of  him, 
*12l. 

Outlawry  of  Mr  Wilkes,  extract  from  Lord  Maniield's  speech 
on  reversing  it,  i.  80,  notes. 


INDEX.  505 

P. 

Parliaments,  view  of  the  dissolution  and  re-assembling  of,  during 
the  present  reign,  i.  3,  note — long  parliaments  the  foundation 
of  the  undue  influence  of  the  crown,  5 — the  privilege  of  par- 
liaments considered,  118 — addresses  from  parliament  consi- 
dered as  a  fashionable  unmeaning  formality,  234 — their  conse- 
quences considered  when  they  mean  what  they  profess,  ibid.—— 
fictitious  account  of  the  debates  in  parliament,  in  i767,  li.  185, 
et  seq. 

Parsons  (Ann)  the  Duke  of  Grafton's  mistress,  i.  83,  note — led 
into  public  by  him,  and  placed  at  the  head  of  his  table,  96 — 
handed  through  the  Opera  House  in  presence  of  the  Queen, 
by  the  first  Lord  of  the  Treasury,  100 — base  conduct  of  the 
Duke  of  Grafton  towards  her,  87,  note. 

Parties,  union  of,  not  productive  of  the  benefit  expected  there- 
from, i.  33 — plan  for  conciliating  recommended  by  Sir  Wil- 
liam Draper,  64,  note. 

People. — The  submission  of  a  free  people,  a  compliance  with 
laws  enacted  by  themselves,  i.  31 — in  reading  the  history  of, 
how  we  become  interested  in  their  cause,  ibid. — the  impartial 
administration  of  justice,  the  firmest  bond  to  secure  their  sub- 
mission, and  to  engage  their  affections  to  government,  38. 

Percy  (Earl)  placed  at  the  head  of  a  regiment,  i.  57 — was  aid- 
de-camp  to  the  king,  and  had  the  rank  of  colonel,  before  he 
had  a  regiment,  6.. 

Fhalaris,  letter  of,  to  the  printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  ii. 
337 — replies  to  Nerva,  against  Lord  Mansfield's  conduct  in 
Mr.  Woodfall's  affair,  ibid,  et  seq. — a  card  from  Phalaris,  on 
Mr.  Justice's  amours  with  Lady  Williams,  381. 

Phi  to- Junius  to  the  printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  i.  96 — that 
the  Duke  of  Grafton's  friends  in  the  contest  with  Junius,  are 
reduced  to  the  general  charge  of  scurrility  and  falsehood,  ibid. 
the  truth  of  Junius's  facts  of  importance  to  the  public,  ibid. — 

a  review  of  them,  as  stated  in  letter  xii.  ibid,  et  seq and  the 

letter  to  the  printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  98 — that  the 
Duke  of  Grafton's  whole  course  of  life  is  a  strange  endeavour 
to  reconcile  contradiction,  ibid. — a  violation  of  public  decorum, 
should  never  be  forgiven,  100 — remarks  on  the  duke's  con- 
duct in  this  respect,  ibid.-—  that  his  grace  always  has  some  ex- 

Vol.  II.  3  S 


506  INDEX. 

cellent  reasons  for  deserting  his  friends,  101 — ironical  notice 
of  Lord  Sandwich,  ibid,  and  note  § — to  the  printer  of  the  Pub- 
lic Advertiser,  1 14 — the  objections  cf  G.  A.  to  Junius's  state 
of  the  question  concerning  the  Middlesex  election,  considered, 
ibid,  et  seq. — vindicates  Junius's  reasoning  on  Mr.  V\  al pole's 
case,  136,  notes — charges  the  ministry  with  introducing  a  new 
system  of  political  logic,  which  he  calls  argument  against  fact, 
141 — that  Sir  W.  Blackstone  sometimes  contradicts  the  minis- 
try as  well  as  himself,  144 — to  the  printer  of  the  Public  Ad- 
vertiser, 17  i — he  is  assured  that  Junius  will  never  descend  to 
a  dispute  with  such  a  writer  as  Modestus,  ibid. — examination 
of  the  proofs  brought  to  support  the  charge  of  Junius  being  an 
Irishman,  ibid,  et  sec/. — that  Modestus  misquotes  whai  Junius 
says  of  conscience,  aiid  makes  the  sentence  ridiculous  by 
making  it  his  own,  173 — to  the  printer  of  the  Public  Adver- 
tiser, 181 — remarks  on  Junius's  letter  xxx.  ibid,  et  seg. — to  the 
printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  273 — that  Anti-Junius  tri- 
umphs in  having,  as  he  supposes,  cut  off  an  out-post  of  Junius, 
274 — that  Junius  does  not  speak  of  the  Spanish  nation,  but 
the  Spanish  court,  as  the  natural  enemies  of  England,  275— 
if  it  were  not  lor  the  respect  he  bears  the  minister,  he  could 
name  a  man  who,  without  one  grain  of  understanding,  can  do 
half  as  much  as  Oliver  Cromwell,  278 — as  to  a  secret  system 
in  the  closet,  that  this  can  only  be  determined  by  appear- 
ances, ibid. — the  queries  put  by  Anti-Junius  can  only  be  an- 
swered by  the  ministry,  ibid. — to  the  printer  of  the  Public  Ad- 
vertiser, ii.  12 — that  t,hpse,  who  object  to  detached  parts  of 
Junius's  last  letter,  either  do  not  mean  fairly,  or  have  not  con- 
sidered the  'cope  of  his  argument,  ibid. — that  Junius  docs  not 
expect  a  dissolution  of  parliament  will  destroy  corruption,  but 
will  be  a  terror  and  check  to  their  successors,  13 — to  the 
printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  ibid. — on  Junius's  construc- 
tion of  the  vote  declaring  Mr.  Walpole's  incapacity,  14 — ex- 
tract from  LordSomeis,  in  support  of  this  construction,  ibid. — 
if  Junius's  construction  be  admitted,  the  advocates  of  the 
House  ol  Commons  must  be  reduced  to  the  necessity  of  main- 
taining a  gross  absurdity,  ibid. — that  the  House  did  not  tore- 
see  one  eifect  resulting  from  their  vote  on  the  Middlesex 
election,  15 — to  the  printer  of  the  Pubiii  Advertiser,  19 — on 
the  opinions  of  Noye  and  Coke,,  on   the  jurisdiction  of  the 


INDEX.  507 

House  of  Commons,  20 — to  the  printer  of  the  Public  Adver- 
tiser, 21— the  resolutions  and  conduct  of  the  House  further 
considered,  ibid,  et  seq. — to  the  printer  of  the  Public  Adver- 
tiser, 70 — the  vanity  and  impiety  of  Junius  are  become  the 
perpetual  topics  of  abuse,  ibid. — the  proofs  of  this  charge  con- 
sidered, ibid. — and  refuted,  ibid,  et  seq. — to  the  printer  of  the 
Public  Advertiser,  97 — that  Junius's  inclination  leads  him  to 
treat  Lord  Camden  with  particular  respect,  ibid. — that  Lord 
Camden  overshot  himself  in  asserting  the  proclamation  against 
exporting  corn  to  be  legal,  99 — to  Zeno,  100 — the  sophistry  of 
his  letter  in  defence  of  Lord  Mansfield,  is  adapted  to  the  charac- 
ter he  defends,  ibid. — strictures  on  Lord  Mansfield's  doctrines, 
105,  et  seq. — that  his  lordship  incessantly  laboured  to  introduce 
new  modes  of  proceeding  into  the  court  of  King's  Bench,  108 — i 
to  an  advocate  in  the  cause  of  the  people,  I  09 — the  difference 
between  general  warrants  and  press  warrants,  stated  unci  ex- 
plained, 1  10,  et  seq. 

Philo-Veritatis,  extract  of  his  letter,  recording  the  bravery  of 
Lord  Townshend,  ii.  170,  note. 

Poetikastos,  extract  of  a  letter  from,  i.  77,  note — monody  of,  on 
Junius,  ii.  315,  notes. 

Pomona,  ironical  letter  from,  to  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  ii.  232. 

Pope  (Mr.)  quotation  from  a  letter  of  his,  to  Dr.  Arbuthnot,  i. 
160,  note. 

Po/ilicola,  letter  of,  to  the  printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  ii. 
155 — the  bravest  and  fiercest  nations  have  sometimes  sub- 
mitted to  a  temporary  surrender  of  their  liberties,  in  order  to 
secure  them,  ibid. — arraigns  Lord  Chatham's  conduct,  156 — > 
to  the  same,  in  reply  to  the  strictures  of  C.  D.  159,  et  seq. 

Portland,  (Duke  of)  duplicity  of  ministers  to  him  exposed,  ii. 
222 — principal  points  in  his  case  stated,  226 — the  conduct 
pointed  out,  which  ministers  ought  to  have  pursued  towards 
him,  228,  et  seq. 

Precedents,  influence  of,  i.  2. 

Prerogative,  (Royal)  account  of  the  outrageous  attempt  made  to 
enlarge  it  by  the  ministry,  ii.  78,  note — the  establishment  of 
the  several  high  offices  of  state,  a  check  to  the  prerogative 
of  the  crown,  198. 

Press,  liberty  of,  the  palladium  of  British  liberty,  i.  3 — strictures 
on,  8,  et  seq.—- .remarks  on,  by  De  Lolme,  29 — must  always 


508  INDEX. 

prove  formidable  to  an  arbitrary  government,  ii.  420— ve- 
tridrks  on,  ibid,  e   seq. 

Pressing  Seamen,  the  right  of,  founded  originally  on  a  necessity, 
which  supersedes  all  argument,  ii.  91 — queries  and  replies 
•thereto,  on  the  legality  of  this  practice,  92,  notes. 

Press  -warrants,  and  General  warrants,  difference  between,  ii. 
111. 

Printers,  proceedings  against,  for  reporting  the  debates  in  par- 
liament, and  strictures  thereon,  ii.  402,  et  seq.  and  notes— 417, 
et  seq.  and  notes. 

Privileges,  nature  and  origin  of,  investigated,  ii.  5,  et  seq.  418, 
et  seq. 

protest,  spirited,  against  the  proceedings  relative  to  the  Falk- 
land Isles,  ii.  394,  et  seq.  notes. 

Publncs,  letter  of,  in  defence  of  Sir  William  Blackstone,  i.  126, 
notes. 

R. 

Bigby,  (Mr)  account  of,  i.  101,  note  \. 

Riots,  on  account  of  Mr.  Wilkes,  notice  of,  i.  70,  note  *— ac- 
count of  one  in  St.  George's  Fields,  ii.  230,  note  *— -remarks 
on  the  letter  of  thanks  to  the  commanding  officer  of  the  troops 
employed  on  that  occasion,  '229,  et  seq. — copy  of  the  letter 
itself,  ibid,  note— strictures  on  Lord  Barrington's  conduct, 
457 

Roberts,  (John)  not  the  author  of  Junius's  letters,  i.  *62. 

Robinson  (Jack)  curious  letter  of,  on  the  appointment  of  sheriffs, 
ii.  SO,  note. 

Rochford,  (Lord)  estimate  of  his  talents,  i.  37.  ii.  301— succeeds 
to  the  foreign  department,  ii.  28,  note 

Rosenhagen,  (Rev.  Mr.)  proofs,  that  he  was  not  the  author  of 
Junius's  Letters,  i.  *75. 

S. 

Sackville,  (Lord  George)  at  one  period  suspected  to  be  the 
author  of  Junius's  Letters,  i.  *99 — a  strong  reason  for  think- 
ing the  suspicion  groundless,  *100. 

Safety,  national,  when  at  stake,  suspicion  is  a  sufficient  ground 
for  inquiry,  i.  32. 

Sandwich,  (Lord)  spotless  morality  of,  i.  101  and  note  §— remarks 
on  his  return  to  office,  ii.  37Kh  382,  384,  et  seq. 

Sawbridge,  (Mr.)  has  shown  himself  possessed  of  that  republican 


INDEX.  509 

firmness  which  the  times  require,  ii.  90— remarks  of  Junius 
on  his  connexion  with  Mr.  Wilkes,  i.  *  1 67,  et  seg. 

Sccevola's  letter  to  Junius,  explaining  Lord  Camden's  opinion, 
ii.  97,  note — he  is  chastised  by  Junius,  i.  *151,  note. 

Scotc/i  influence,  remarks  on,  i.  25,  et  seg. 

Scotus,  ironical  letter  of,  to  Lord  Barrington,  on  his  abuse  of  the 
Scotch  character,  ii.  464. 

Scrutator,  extracts  of  his  letters  in  vindication  of  Lord  Hillsbo- 
rough, ii.  279,  note — 281,  note. 

Seamen,  the  right  of  pressing,  founded  originally  on  a  necessity, 
which  supersedes  all  argument,  ii.  91 — queries  and  answers 
on  the  legality  of  this  right,  92,  notes. 

Shelburne,  ("Lord)  applied  to,  in  regard  to  the  Manilla  ransom,  i. 
46,  note — his  conduct,  with  respect  to  Corsica,  disavowed  by 
ministers,  94,  and  note— portrait  of,  ii.  168 — account  of  his 
political  life,  299. 

Sheriffs  of  Middlesex  discharged  their  duty  in  returning  Mr. 
Wilkes,  i  85,  and  note — Mr.  Home  unsuccessful  in  support 
of  the  ministerial  nomination  of  sheriffs,  ii.  32. 

Silurus,  character  of  Junius  by  him,  ii.  316,  note. 

Smythe,  (Mr.  Baron)  censured  by  Junius,  ii.  145 — state  of  the 
case,  and  vindication  of  him  by  Mr.  Dunning,  ibid.  146,  notes. 

Somers,  (Lord)  extract  from  his  tract  on  the  rights  of  the  people, 
i.  136,  note. 

Spain,  dishonourable  conduct  of  the  government  of,  concerning 
the  Manilla  ransom,  i.  46,  note — on  the  preparations  for  war 
with  Spain,  *  1 35,  and  note. 

Stamfi-Act  made  and  repealed,  i.  35 — effect  of  passing  it  on  the 
colonies,  92,  note. 

State,  the  ruin  or  prosperity  of,  depends  on  the  administration  of 
its  government,  i.  32 — the  improper  bestowment  of  its  princi- 
pal offices,  the  source  of  every  mischief,  ibid. 

Suffolk,  (Earl  of)  letter  to,  on  his  conduct,  ii.  425 — his  lordship 
the  first  who  has  avowed  himself  to  act  without  principle,  431 

— strictures  on  his  political  tergiversation,  432,  et  seg his 

lordship's  resignation,  a  pledge  of  his  delicacy,  if  not  of  his 
integrity,  437 — the  situation  into  which  he  brought  himself, 
considered,  ibid. 
Supreme,  import  of  the  word  explained,  i.  3,  4. 
Suspicion    is  a  proper  ground  for  inquiry  when  the  national 
safety  is  at  stake,  i.  32. 


510  INDEX. 

T. 

Taylor,  (John)  tried  for  murder,  ii.  145,  note — his  case  stated, 
ibid.  note. 

Tell-Truih,  letter  of,  on  Mr.  Bradshaw's  appointment  as  one  of 
the  Lords  of  the  Admiralty,  ii.  446. 

Temjiorum  Felicitas,  letter  of,  to  the  printer  of  the  Public  Ad- 
vertiser, ii.  29  1— ironical  encomium  on  Lord  Hillsborough's 
conduct,  ibid,  et  seq. 

Testis,  letter  of,  on  Lord  Barrington's  conduct  as  Secretary  at 
War,  ii.  363 — reply  to,  by  Testiculus,  364. 

Titus,  letter  of,  to  the  printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  i.  53, 
note— strictures  on  Junius,  54,  note — vindicates  the  character 
of  Lord  Granby,  as  a  man,  a  soldier,  and  as  a  general,  ibid,  et 
seg.  note. 

Touchet  (Mr.),  in  his  most  prosperous  fortune,  the  same  man  as 
at  present,  ii.  31. 

Towns hend  (Mr.  Alderman),  complains  that  the  public  gratitude 
has  not  been  equal  to  his  deserts,  ii.  90 — questions  the  le- 
gality of  the  land-tax  act,  35  5,  note — abstract  of  the  trial  of 
this  question,  ibid,  notes. 

Townshend  (Hon.  Charles),  chancellor  of  the  exchequer,  ii.  165 
— character  of,  166. 

Townshend  (Lord),  Lord  Lieutenant  of  Ireland,  ii.  165,  note — 
remarks  on  his  character  and  conduct,  ibid — said  to  excel  in 
portrait  painting,  167 — outlines  of  subjects  for  his  pencil 
sketched  by  Correggio  (Junius)  ibid. — anecdote  of  his  intre- 
pidity, 1 70,  note-—  remarks  of  Moderatus  on  the  dispute  rela- 
tive to  this  anecdote,  ibid. 

7"ownshend(T.),  joint  paymaster,  portrait  of,  ii.  169. 

Trial  of  Mr.  Woodfall  for  publishing  the  letter  of  Junius  to  the 
king,  abstract  of,  i.  9,  et  seg.  notes — further  touched  upon,  191, 
note. 

V. 

Valentinian  III.,  character  of,  ii.  440. 

Valerius,  letter  of,  to  the  printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  ii.  226 
— that  ministers  have  not  answered  the  accusation  laid  against 
them  in  "  the  Duke  of  Portland's  case,"  ibid. — they  are 
charged  with  violating  the  rights  of  possession,  for  the  pur- 
poses of  undue  influence  at  an  ejection,  and  of  paying  a  base 
court  to  a  clandestine  and  dangerous  power,  ibid. — the  chief 


INDEX.  511 

points  of  his  Grace's  case  slated,  227 — they  ought,  officially, 
to  have  seen  the  right  of  the  crown  to  make  the  giant  to  Sir 
James  Lowther  defended,  and  the  Duke  of  Portland's  title 
examined,  229 — to  the  printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  254 — 
the  conduct  of  ministers,  in  dismissing  Sir  J.  Amherst,  from 
the  government  of  Virginia,  considered,  255,  et  sec/. 

Vaughan  (Mr.),  sends  proposals  to  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  i.  185 — 
state  of  the  fact,  ibid,  note — his  offer,  a  high  misdemeanor, 
190 — prosecuted  in  the  court  of  King's  Bench,  ibid,  note — the 
prosecution  dropped,  and  why,  ibid,  note — vindicated  by  Ju- 
nius, as  a  much  injured  man,  215. 

Veteran,  letters  of,  to  Lord  Barrington,  ii.  419 — on  his  lordship's 
appointment  of  a  deputy-secretary,  ibid.  450 — charges  Lord  B. 
with  ruining  General  Fowke,  455,  and  note — examines  his 
lordship's  political  tergiversations,  ibid. — on  iiis  changes  in 
the  war-office,  456 — his  conduct  in  the  affair  of  St.  George's 
Fields  considered,  457 — censures  his  nick-naming  of  General 
Harvey,  458 — estimates  his  lordship's  abilities,  461 — further 
remarks  on  his  lordship's  unprecedented  changes  in  the  war- 
office,  463,  et  seq. 

Virginia,  the  government  of,  taken  from  Sir  J.  Amherst,  ii.  244 
— this  measure  considered,  244,  249,  254,  et  seq. 

W. 

iVales,  (Princess  Dowager  of),  her  influence  with  the  king  ex- 
amined and  exposed,  ii.  385,  et  seq. — the  deplorable  condition 
of  the  country  attributed  to  her,  386 — by  her  management,  a 
war  is  certain  instead  of  being  avoided,  390. 

Walfiole  (Mr.),  expelled  from  the  House  of  Commons,  i.  Ill, 
and  note — his  case  supposed  to  be  strictly  in  point  to  prove, 
that  expulsion  incapacitates  from  being  re-elected,  1 12,  et  seq. 
— state  of  his  case  from  the  journals  of  the  House  ci  Com- 
mons, 112,  note — remarks  on  his  case  by  Sir  William  Black- 
stone,  128,  et  sp'j. — strictures  thereon  by  Junius,  133,  etseq.—. 
the  vote  of  expulsion,  as  expressed  in  the  votes,  135 — stric- 
tures on  its  meaning  and  extent,  ibid,  et  *eq. 

Westminster  (Electors  of)  remonstrance  to  the  king,  on  the  dis- 
solution of  parliament,  i.  *131,  et  seq.  note. 

We-iton  (Edward)  supposed  to  vindicate  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  i. 
74,  note — an  example  of  age,  without  the  benefit  of  experi- 
ence, 75,  77 — quotation  from  his  supposed  pamphlet,  with  re- 


512  INDEX. 

marks,  78 — denies  that  he  was  the  author,  ibid,  note  *—  letters 
to  him  by  Crito,  77,  78,  notes. 

Weymouth  (Lord),  appointed  one  of  the  secretaries  of  state,  i. 
37 — estimate  of  his  talents,  ibid. — resigns  his  office,  ii.  28, 
note. 

Whipcord's  letter  to  Mr.  Home,  ii.  35,  note. 

Whitefoord  (Mr.  Caleb),  author  of  the  letter,  signed  Junia,  ii. 
326,  note. 

Whittlebury  Forest.,  the  Duke  of  Grafton  hereditary  ranger  of, 
ii.  76 — the  right  to  the  timber  claimed  by  his  Grace,  77 — the 
story  of  the  oaks  refuted  by  Philalethes,  82,  et  seq.  note. 

Wilkes  (Mr.),  proved  not  to  be  the  author  of  Junius's  Letters,  i. 
*82 — prosecution  of,  for  an  obscene  poem,  10,  note  *<—  cause 
of  his  persecution  by  the  ministry  stated,  73,  note  * — was  a 
candidate  for  London,  before  he  offered  himself  for  the  county 
of  Middlesex,  79,  note  * — riots  on  his  account,  ibid.  ii.  230, 
note — extracts  from  Lord  Mansfield's  speech  on  reversing 
his  outlawry,  i.  80,  note — suffered  to  appear  at  large,  and  to 
canvass  for  the  city  and  county,  with  an  outlaivry  hanging 
over  him,  79 — the  question  arising  from  his  expulsion,  stated 
with  justice  and  precision,  108,  et  seq.— further  observations 
thereon,  ii.  362 — was  not  of  consideration  enough,  to  excite 
the  resentment  of  a  king,  i«  196 — his  address  and  petition  to 
the  king,  206,  note — speech  in  the  House  of  Commons,  on  his 
motion  for  erasing  the  votes  and  resolutions  against  him,  ii. 
15,  et  seq.  note — detail  of  circumstances  relating  to  that  era- 
sure, 17,  note — extracts  from  his  letters,  relative  to  his  dis- 
pute with  Mr.  Home.  39,  et  seq.  notes — 49,  note-—  commis- 
sions Mr.  Thomas  Walpole  to  solicit  a  pension  for  him,  56— 
receives  '200/.  per  annum  from  the  Duke  of  Portland  and  Lord 
Rockingham,  56,  and  note  * — has  no  resource  but  in  the  pub- 
lic favour,  89 — view  of  his  circumstances,  on  his  return  from 
France,  212,  et  seq.— -disgraceful  scene  at  the  hustings,  213— 
he  could  never  have  been  permitted  to  go  such  lengths,  if  all 
were  well  between  Lord  Bute  and  ministers,  215 — his  con- 
cluding letter  to  Mr.  Home,  i.  *140,  note — letter  of,  on  Mr. 
Ga  rick's  performing  the  character  of  Hastings,  *144 — pri- 
vate letters  of  Junius  to  him,  *  1 65,  e t  seq. — Junius  assures  him 
of  his  support,  ibid. — his  connexion  with  Mr.  Sawbridge  con- 
sich  > -  d.  *167,  et  set/. — a  plan  proposed  for  reconciling  them, 
*17 1 — the  conduct  of  the  supporters  of  the  Bill  of  Rights  cen- 


INDEX.  513 

sured,  *172,  et  seg.— examination  of  the  articles  of  their  de- 
claiation,  *178,  et  seg. — Mr.  Wilkes's  vindication  of  his  con- 
duct, *186,  et  seg. — to  Junius,  on  the  reading  of  his  second 
letter  before  the  Bill  of  Rights  Society,  *  197,  *198 — to  Junius, 

*202 on  his  proposed  card,  excusing  himself  from  going  to 

St.  Paul's,  *202,  *203— to  Junius,  on  perusing  his  dedication 
and  preface,  *205 — on  the  commitment  of  Eyre,  *207 — on  the 
Bill  of  Rights  Society,  *209,  *210. 

Wollaston  (Mr.),  expelled,  re-elected,  and  admitted  into  the  same 
parliament,  i.  138 — the  public  left  to  determine  whether  this 
be  a  plain  matter  of  fact,  141. 

Wood/all  (H.  S.)  Junius  gives  the  property  of  his  letters  to  him, 
i.  7 — account  of  the  trial  of,  for  publishing  Junius's  Letters, 
10,  et  seg.  notes — prosecution  of,  for  publishing  Junius's  letter 
to  the  king,  191,  note — proofs  of  his  strict  veracity,  i.  *94, 
*95— private  letters  of  Junius  to  him,  relative  to  the  printing 
and  publishing  his  letters,  *103,  et  seg — letters  of  Junius  to 
him  on  his  prosecution,  *130,  *  13 1 — *134 — his  expenses  on 
this  account,  *130,  note — letters  of  Mr.  Woodfall  to  Junius, 
*137,  note,  and  *160. 

Wood/all  (William)  extracts  from  his  Vox  Senatus  of  the  speeches 
of  Messrs.  Fox  and  Burke  on  the  subject  of  the  liberty  of  the 
press,  i.  13,  et  seg.  note. 

X. 

X.  X.  Letters  of,  to  the  printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  ii.  336f 
340— General  Gansel's  affair  examined,  ibid.  244. 

Y. 

Yates  (Sir  Joseph),  quits  the  court  of  King's  Bench,  i.  254— 
honourable  anecdote  of  his  integrity,  ibid.  note. 

Yorke  (Charles),  shot  himself,  immediately  after  his  appoint- 
ment to  the  chancellorship,  i.  264,  note. 

Y.  Y.  in  answer  to  X.  X.,  ii.  337,  et  seg. 

Y.  Z.  Letter  of,  to  the  printer  of  the  Public  Advertiser,  ii.  185— 
reports  of  a  certain  speech  in  parliament,  ibid,  et  seg. 

Z. 

Zend's  letter  to  Junius  in  vindication  of  Lord  Mansfield,  ii.  100, 
et  seg.  notes — reply  to  him  by  Philo-Junius,  100,  et  seg. 

Voi.  II.  3  T 

THE  END. 


m     C_ 


**£. 


<*Rl 


^M 


