6t.  MICHAEL'S  COLL1QI 
TORONTO  6.  CANADA 


LETTERS 


OP 


JAMES  BOSWELL. 


tMUBRAfty 


LETTERS 


JAMES    BOSWELL, 


ADDRESSED  TO  THE  REV.  W.  J.  TEMPLE. 


NO W  FIRST  PUBLISHED  FROM  THE  ORIGINAL  MSS. 


WITH  AN  INTRODUCTION  AND  NOTES. 


LONDON : 
EICHAED  BENTLEY,  NEW  BUELINGTON  STEEET, 

|3itblisljct  in  ©rtinatg  to  |^er  JHajestg. 
1857. 


[The  right  of  Translating  thin  Work  is  reserved.} 


FEINTED  BY 

JOHN  EDWARD  TAYLOR,  LITTLE  QUEEN  STREET, 
LINCOLN'S  INN  FIELDS. 


MAY  16  1956 


PREFACE. 


THE  Letters  of  James  Boswell,  contained  in  the  pre- 
sent Volume,  came  into  the  hands  of  the  Publisher 
under  the  following  circumstances.     A  few  years  ago 
a  clergyman  having  occasion  to  buy  some  small  articles 
at  the  shop  of  Madame  Noel,  at  Boulogne,  observed 
that  the  paper  in  which  they  were  wrapped  was  the 
fragment  of  an  English  letter.     Upon  inspection,  a 
date  and  some  names  were  discovered;  and  further 
investigation  proved  that  the  piece  of  paper  in  ques- 
tion was  part  of  a  correspondence,  carried  on  nearly  a 
century  before,  between  the  Biographer  of  Dr.  Samuel 
Johnson,  and  his  early  friend,  the  Rev.  William  John- 
son Temple.     On  making  inquiry,  it  was  ascertained 
that  this  piece  of  paper  had  been  taken  from  a  large 
parcel  recently  purchased  from  a  hawker,  who  was  in 
the  habit  of  passing  through  Boulogne  once  or  twice  a 
year,  for  the  purpose  of  supplying  the  different  shops 
with  paper.    Beyond  this  no  further  information  could 
be  obtained.     The  whole  contents  of  the  parcel  were 
immediately  secured.    The  majority  of  the  Letters  bear 


VI  PREFACE. 

the  London  and  Devon  post-marks,  and  are  franked 
by  well-known  names  of  that  period.  Besides  those 
written  by  Boswell  which  are  here  published,  were 
found  several  from  Mr.  Nicholls,  Mr.  Claxton,  and 
other  persons  alluded  to  in  the  following  pages,  as 
well  as  a  few  unfinished  Sermons  and  Essays  by  Mr. 
Temple. 

At  the  death  of  the  purchaser  of  these  Letters  they 
passed  into  the  hands  of  a  nephew,  from  whom  the 
Editor  obtained  them ;  and  in  the  present  form  they 
are  now  submitted  to  the  Public. 

November  \$th,  1856. 


Vll 


CONTENTS. 


PAGE 

.   xiii 


CHAPTEE  I. 

1758-1761. 

Boswell's  early  Style  of  Letter-writing. — The  "  Elegance  of 
Friendship." — Elfrida. — Introduction  to  David  Hume. — 

His  Character. — Falls  in  Love  with  Miss  W 1. — Her 

Qualities  and  Fortune. — Mr.  Love,  the  Player. — Sir  David 
Dalrymple. — Cambridge. — Study  of  Law  at  Edinburgh. — 
Dr.  Johnson's  Bumper  to  Lord  Hailes. — Boswell  on  Heirs 
Male  and  Treatment  of  Daughters. — Journalizing  ...  1 

CHAPTEE  II. 

1761-1763. 

Attractions  of  London. — Boswell's  Taste  for  the  Army. — Dis- 
taste for  Fighting. — Disgust  for  Scotland. — His  Female 
Friends. — His  Poem,  '  The  Club  at  Newmarket.' — Corre- 
spondence with  the  Hon.  Andrew  Erskine 12 

CHAPTEE  III. 
1763. 

Makes  the  Acquaintance  of  Dr.  Johnson. — Character  of  a  true 
Friend. — Mr.  Dempster. — Criticism.  —  Supper  with  Mr. 
Johnson. — Boswell's  new  Plan  of  Life. — The  Pensive  Gray 
and  the  Apothecary  Gray. — Bob  Temple. — Johnson  on  the 


Vlll  CONTENTS. 

PAGB 

Art  of  Study. — Boswell  on  the  Advantages  of  Adversity.. 
— Dr.  Johnson's  Rooms  in  the  Temple. — Supper  at  the 
Turk's  Head.  —  Preparation  for  Travel.  —  Dr.  Johnson 
accompanies  him  to  Harwich. — Writes  him  a  Letter  of 
Precepts '17 

CHAPTER  IV. 
1764-1766. 

Studies  at  Utrecht. — Letter  to  Sir  Andrew  Mitchell. — Bos- 
well's  "  Spirited  Tour." — Visits  Voltaire  and  Rousseau. — 
Corsica. — Pascal  Paoli. — Corsican  History  and  Journal. — 
Walpole's  and  Gray's  Criticism. — Dedication  of  the  Book. 
— Visit  to  Mr.  Pitt.  —  Correspondence  with  Temple  re- 
sumed.— Boswell  on  the  Clerical  Character,  Bachelorship, 
and  Marriage.  —  Progress  in  the  Law.  —  Contemplates 
Matrimony. — Zelide. — A  Scotch  Lass. — Writes  to  Lord 
Chatham. — The  Douglas  Cause. — Professional  Business. — 
Miss  Blair. — Rough  Notes  for  a  Conversation. — Temple 
Marries _^  .  .  49 

CHAPTER  V. 

1767-1768. 

Courting  Miss  Blair. — '  Dorando.' — Matrimony. — Mode  of  pre- 
serving a  reasonable  Attachment  to  Miss  Blair. — Disagree- 
ment between  Father  and  Son  as  to  BoswelTs  Merits. — 
The  '  Corsican  Journal.' — Lord  Baltimore's  Tour. — Lovers' 
Quarrels. — Boswell's  Costume  for  Courting. — Miss  Blair 
repudiated. — Zelide  and  Miss  Bosville  reconsidered. — Miss 
Blair  replaced. — Dialogue  between  the  Prince  and  Princess. 
— Its  Result .  104 


CHAPTER  VI. 

1768-1773. 

Boswell  Marries. — Dr.  Johnson's  Opinion  of  Mrs.  Boswell. — 
Uxoriana. — Account  of  Corsica. — Trip  to  Ireland. — Adver- 
tises his  Fashionable  Visits. — Shakspeare  Jubilee.  —  Re- 


CONTENTS.  IX 

PAGE 

sides  at  Edinburgh. — Elected  a  Member  of  "  The  Club." —  ». 
Love  Affairs  before  his  Marriage. — The  Princess  again  and 
the  Nabob. — Corresponds  with  "  the  Charming  Dutchwo- 
man."—  Success  of  '  Account  of  Corsica.' —  Sets  up  his 
Chariot. — Visits  from  Hume  and  Johnson. — Robertson's 
'  Charles  V.' — "  La  Belle  Irlandaise." — Mental  Conflict. — 
Letters  from  the  Married  Boswell. — Hume  upon  History. 
— Birth  and  Death  of  a  Son. — Boswell's  Married  Life  .  .  130 


CHAPTER  VII. 

1774-1775. 

Letter  to  Mrs.  Temple. — Advice  to  her  as  a  Wife. — Boswell's 
Journey  to  London. — Superstition  and  Feudalism. — Lord 
Lisburne. — Inconvenience  to  a  Chaplain  in  Breakfasting. — 
Success  in  making  Acquaintance. — The  American  Ques- 
tion.— Talking  from  Books. — Langton  Garrick. — Temple's 
Essay  on  the  Clergy. — Boswell's  Hope  of  Place. — Lord 
Pembroke. — A  Speculation  on  the  Patriarchs. — Boswell's 
Moral  Fences. — Temple's  Character  of  Gray  adopted  by 
Mason. — London  Magazine. — Boswell  in  Election  Case. — 
Dinners  and  Pleasures  in  Town.  —  Richard  Owen  Cam- 
bridge.— Hermes  Harris 174 

CHAPTER  VIII. 
1775. 

Dr.  Johnson  represses  the  Publication  of  the  '  Tour  to  the  He- 
brides.'—  Preferment  for  Temple. — Mr.  Thrale. — Beau- 
clerk's  elegant  Villa,  etc. — A  Day's  Work. — Dr.  Johnson. 
— Wilkes. — Lord  Bute's  Daughter-in-law. — Miss  Bosville. 
— Return  to  Edinburgh. — Harry  Dundas  made  King's  Ad- 
vocate.— Dr.  Johnson's  Injunction. — Conjugal  Love. — Con- 
trast between  Edinburgh  and  London. — Paoli's  Kindness. 
— The  State  and  Dignity  of  a  Coach. — Professional  Prac- 
tice.— Anecdote  of  Mr.  Hume. — Courtiers  and  Courtesans. 
Hume  on  Pitt. — The  American  War. — Boswell's  Ambition 
for  Political  Power. — Hume  on  Dr.  Johnson. — Temple  on 
Hume. — Letter  to  Mason. — Dr.  Black. — Lord  Auchinleck 
on  Johnson  190 


X  CONTENTS. 

CHAPTEE  IX. 
1775. 

PAGE 

Hypochondria. — Proposed  publication  of  Mr.  Temple's  Letters 
to  Boswell. — Lord  Hailes'  Annals  of  Scotland. — Lord  Lis- 
burne. — Capability  Brown. — Edmund  Burke. — Boswell's 
Pedigree. — Allowance  by  his  Father. — American  War. — 
Conjugal  Society. — Boswell's  estimation  of  himself. — His 
Father's  views. — Divarication  of  the  two. — Family  Settle- 
ments.— Birth  of  a  Son. — Dundas. — Dr.  Johnson  on  the 
Continent. — Speculation  on  Happiness 208 

CHAPTEE  X. 

1776. 

Mrs.  Eudd,  her  Trial  and  Treachery. — Boswell  seeks  her  ac- 
quaintance.— At  Bath  with  Dr.  Johnson  and  the  Thrales. 
— The  Yew-tree  Vow  not  kept. — Habits  of  Drinking. — 
Mrs.  Eudd  Boswellized. — Pure  Friendship  for  Mrs.  Stuart. 
— The  Devonshire  Family 223 

CHAPTEE  XI. 

1776-1779. 

Interval  in  the  Correspondence. — Temple's  Circumstances. — 
Dr.  Johnson  confirms  Boswell  in  his  Toryism. — A  young 
Widow. — Louth. — Sir  Alexander  Dick's  British  Georgic. 
— Dr.  Armstrong's  description  of  Gibbon. — Temple's  Book 
and  Character  criticized. — Letter  from  a  Friend  to  Temple  236 

CHAPTEE  XII. 

1780-1789. 

Journey  to  Edinburgh. — Dean  Smith. — Mr.  Falconer. — Stay  at 
Chester. — Lord  Monboddo's  Metaphysics. — Boswell's  Posi- 
tionand  Difficulties. — Bishop  Hurd. — Happiness  and  Know- 
ledge.— David  Boswell. — His  Character. — Speculations  on 
Human  Misery  and  Personal  Prospects. — Nichols  M'Lau- 


CONTENTS.  XI 

PAGE 

rin. — Story  of  an  Ordination. — The  last  Century . —Arch- 
bishop Drummond. — Dr.  Boswell 247 

CHAPTER  XIII. 
1781-1789. 

Interval  in  Correspondence. — Death  of  Boswell's  Father. — Bos- 
well  in  Difficulties. — Death  of  Dr.  Johnson. — '  Tour  to  the 
Hebrides.' — Boswell  comes  to  London. — Borrows  Money. 
— A  Companion  and  Governess  in  1788. — Christ's  Hospital. 
— '  Life  of  Johnson.' — Dissipation  and  Despondency. — Ill- 
ness of  Boswell's  Wife. — Takes  a  House  in  Queen  Anne 
Street  West. — No  Prospect  at  Westminster  Hall. — Ma- 
lone's  Assistance. — Archbishop's  Dinner  to  Judges  and 
Counsel. — Becomes  Candidate  for  his  County 260 

CHAPTER  XIV. 

1789. 

Illness  of  Mrs.  Boswell. — Society  of  the  Northern  Circuit. — 
Boswell  "  roasted." — '  Quare  adhsesit  pavimento  ?' — Haw- 
kins.— Dr.  Parr. — Collects  and  publishes  Warburton's  Ju- 
venile Works. — Hurd.—  Public  Affairs. — Pitt's  ill-usage  of 
Boswell. — His  Wife. — Barthelemy's  'Voyage  en  Grece.' — 
Mceurs  des  Grecs. — Story  of  an  Apparition. — Courtenay. 
— Sir  John  Hawkins. — Jealousy  of  Dr.  Johnson's  Biogra- 
phers.— Mrs.  Boswell's  Illness  increases. — Dundas. — Pitt's 
"  Folly." — Disappointment  of  Boswell. — Boswell  meditates 
an  attack  upon  Pitt  272 

CHAPTER   XV. 

1789. 

Mrs.  Boswell's  case  pronounced  hopeless. — Self-reproaches. — 
Parliamentary  Aspiration. — Chairman  of  Quarter  Sessions. 
— Address  to  the  Prince  of  Wales. — '  Conspicuousness.' — 
Pitt. — Death  of  Mrs.  Boswell. — Family  Plans. — Electioneer- 
ing.— Visit  to  Lord  Lonsdale. — Strange  Loss  of  a  Wig. — 
Gloomy  condition  of  Mind. — Mysterious  discovery  of  the 
Wig. — Malone  revising  the  '  Life  of  Johnson.' — Sir  Joshua 
Reynolds'  Blindness. — Boswell's  Income. — Visit  to  Eton. 
— Progress  of  the  '  Life  of  Johnson  ' 290 


Xll  CONTENTS. 

CHAPTEE  XVI. 

1789-1790. 

PAGE 

Habit  of  Intemperance. — Malone. — Boswell's  own  Opinion  of 
the  Merits  of '  Life  of  Johnson.' — Private  Affairs. — A  good 
Dinner. — Monument  to  Dr.  Johnson. — '  European  Settle- 
ment,' written  by  Burke's  cousin. — Printing  the  '  Life  of 
Johnson.' — Inscription  on  his  Monument. — Readable  style 
ofWriting 309 

CHAPTEE  XVII. 
1790-91. 

Political  Disappointment. — Lord  Lonsdale's  shocking  Eough- 
ness. — A  Lady  of  Fortune. — Death  of  Eoss,  the  Player. — 
Hypochondria. — Advantages  of  High  Life  and  Five  Hun- 
dred Pounds  per  Annum. — Macklin,  the  Actor. — Last 
sheet  of  '  Life  of  Johnson.' — Meditations  on  Matrimony. — 
Miss  Bagnal. — War  with  Eussia. — Helping  the  Turks  .  .  323 

CHAPTEE  XVIII. 

1791-1793. 

Publication  of  the  '  Life  of  Johnson.' — A  second  Odyssey. — Ad- 
vertisements.— The  Home  Circuit. — Its  superiority  to  the 
Northern. — New  Matrimonial  Schemes. — Sir  Joshua  Eey- 
nolds's  Blindness. — Journey  to  Auchinleck. — Choice  of  a 
Minister  for  a  Parish. — Second  edition  of  the  '  Life  of  John- 
son.'— Boswell  intoxicated,  robbed,  and  repentant  .  .  .  338 

CHAPTEE  XIX. 

1794-1795. 

Indisposition. — French  Eevolution. — Intemperance  and  Ee- 
morse. — Serious  Illness. — Letters  from  Boswell's  Son  and 
Brother. — Boswell's  Death. — Conclusion 351 

ADDITIONAL  LETTEES. 
Correspondence  with  Hon.  Andrew  Erskine  and  Mr.  Dempster  359 


INTRODUCTION. 


THE  accident  by  which  the  following  Letters  of  James 
Boswell  have  come  to  light  has  been  already  told  in 
the  Preface  to  this  volume.  If  it  had  not  been  pre- 
sumed that  they  would  interest  many  readers,  and 
particularly  those  who  concern  themselves  with  the 
literature  and  character  of  the  era  in  which  Boswell 
lived,  this  collection  would  not  have  been  given  to  the 
press. 

Although  not  a  few  of  the  letters  may  appear  to 
be  of  a  private  and  personal  nature,  evincing  neither 
remarkable  mental  powers  nor  any  high  standard  of 
morals,  yet  it  has  been  considered  that  Boswell's  his- 
tory and  character,  as  here  exhibited,  acquire  no  small 
importance  from  the  circumstance  of  his  having  min- 
gled with  the  literary  giants  of  his  day,  whose  sayings 
he  recorded,  whose  characters  he  criticized,  and  of 
whose  daily  doings  he  constituted  himself  a  journalist ; 
whilst  he  of  necessity  imparted  to  his  observations, 
notwithstanding  his  marvellous  accuracy,  no  slight 
colouring  derived  from  his  own  individuality.  Upon 


XIV  INTRODUCTION. 

this  ground  the  publication  of  these  Letters  of  Bos- 
well, — in  which  certainly  the  writer  lays  before  his 
correspondent  his  real  nature,  his  weaknesses,  follies, 
and  vices, — might  find  sufficient  justification.  His 
correspondence  with  Mr.  Temple,  however,  possesses  a 
further  source  of  interest,  as  exhibiting  a  strange 
mental  and  moral  condition  in  the  confessions  it  con- 
tains, which  are  indeed  such  as  few  people  would  make 
even  to  themselves,  or  commit  to  their  private  diaries. 

Notwithstanding  the  peculiar  and  private  character 
of  this  correspondence,  which  certainly  reflects  in 
many  parts  little  credit  on  the  memory  of  the  writer, 
still  there  can  be  little  doubt  that,  could  he  now  have 
a  voice  with  respect  to  its  publication,  his  morbid  ego- 
tism would  have  approved  of  its  thus  appearing  at 
the  present  day  :  indeed  passages  will  be  found  in  this 
volume  which  indicate  that,  not  only  did  he  reckon 
on  Mr.  Temple's  preserving  his  letters,  but  even  on  the 
possibility  of  their  coming  to  the  eyes  of  the  Public. 

It  is  interesting,  in  connection  with  the  appearance 
of  this  volume,  to  read  Boswell's  own  opinion  upon  the 
subject  of  the  publication  of  private  letters,  which  is 
expressed  in  the  Preface  to  his  correspondence  with 
the  Hon.  Andrew  Erskine,*  which  he  published  at  an 
early  period  of  his  life  : — "  Curiosity,"  says  he,  "  is  the 
most  prevalent  of  all  our  passions,  and  the  curiosity 
for  reading  letters  is  the  most  prevalent  of  all  kinds  of 
curiosity.  Had  any  man  in  the  three  kingdoms  found 
the  following  letters,  directed,  sealed,  and  addressed, 

*  See  post,  p.  359. 


CURIOSITY    ABOUT    LETTERS.  XV 

with  postmarks, — provided  that  he  could  have  done 
so  honestly, — he  would  have  read  every  one  of  them ; 
or  had  they  been  ushered  into  the  world  from  Mr. 
Flexney's  shop  in  that  manner,  they  would  have  been 
bought  up  with  the  greatest  avidity.  As  they  really 
once  had  all  the  advantage  of  concealment,  we  hope 
the  present  more  conspicuous  form  will  not  tend  to 
diminish  their  merit."  On  a  subsequent  occasion 
Dr.  Johnson,  as  the  great  arbiter  of  morals,  was  ap- 
pealed to  by  his  faithful  disciple  upon  this  subject. 
Having  objected  to  a  part  of  one  of  his  own  letters 
to  Boswell  being  published,  a  liberty  which  the  latter 
had  taken  in  his '  Account  of  Corsica/  the  circumstance 
afforded  "  an  opportunity  of  asking  the  Doctor,  ex- 
plicitly, whether  it  would  be  improper  to  publish  his 
letters  after  his  death ;  the  answer  to  which  was, '  Nay, 
Sir,  when  I  am  dead  you  may  do  as  you  will.' ' 
This  reply  was  doubtless  in  every  respect  satisfactory 
to  Boswell,  as  he  much  coveted  Dr.  Johnson's  cor- 
respondence, with  a  view  probably  of  using  it  for  his 
Biography. 

In  the  present  case,  indeed,  any  feeling  of  delicacy 
for  Boswell's  memory  or  reputation  with  regard  to 
the  propriety  of  publishing  his  Letters  is  superfluous. 
His  own  ostentation  and  egotism,  his  bustling,  med- 
dling self-obtrusion,  as  well  as  the  freedom  he  used 
in  criticizing  his  contemporaries,  associates,  and  rivals, 
render  all  that  Boswell  said  or  did  a  legitimate  sub- 
ject of  publication  and  comment.  It  is  true,  that  he 
showed  as  little  reserve  with  regard  to  himself  as  to 


XVI  INTRODUCTION. 

others;  but  this  only  confirms  the  right  to  mete  to 
him  according  to  his  own  measure,  so  far  at  least  as  it 
is  a  just  one. 

There  is  however  another  point  which  may  be 
thought  deserving  of  consideration,  viz.  the  exposure 
of  Bos  well's  weaknesses  which  is  contained  in  these 
Letters  to  Mr.  Temple.  Looking  upon  the  latter  in  the 
light  of  a  biography,  we  naturally  recall  the  passage 
in  the  '  Life  of  Johnson'  where  this  subject  is  raised. 
"  Talking  of  biography,  I  said,  '  In  writing  a  Life,  a 
man's  peculiarities  should  be  mentioned,  because  they 
mark  his  character.'  Johnson :  '  Sir,  there  is  no  doubt 
as  to  peculiarities;  the  question  is,  whether  a  man's 
vices  should  be  mentioned.  For  instance,  whether  it 
should  be  mentioned  that  Addison  and  Parnell  drank 
too  freely,  for  people  will  probably  more  easily  indulge 
in  drinking  from  knowing  this ;  so  that  more  ill  may 
be  done  by  the  example  than  good  by  telling  the  whole 
truth.' '  "  Here,"  continues  Boswell,  "  was  an  in- 
stance of  his  varying  from  himself  in  talk ;  for  when 
the  Lord  Hailes  and  he  sat  one  morning  calmly  con- 
versing in  my  house  at  Edinburgh,  I  well  remember 
that  Dr.  Johnson  maintained  that  if  a  man  is  to 
write  a  panegyric,  he  may  keep  vices  out  of  sight; 
but  if  he  professes  to  write  a  Life,  he  must  represent 
it  really  as  it  was  ;  and  when  I  objected  to  the  danger 
of  telling  that  Parnell  drank  to  excess,  he  said  that  it 
would  produce  an  instructive  caution  to  avoid  drink- 
ing, when  it  was  seen  that  even  the  learning  and  the 
genius  of  Parnell  could  be  debased  by  it.  And  in  the 


ON    PUBLISHING    LETTERS.  XV11 

Hebrides  he  maintained  that  a  man's  intimate  friend 
should  mention  his  faults,  if  he  writes  his  life."*  In 
determining  upon  the  publication  of  these  Letters,  no 
fear  is  entertained  that  the  reader  will  be  tempted  to 
follow  Boswell's  example  from  sympathy  with  the  cha- 
racter he  has  drawn  of  himself. 

On  the  whole,  the  letters  to  Mr.  Temple  present  a 
natural,  though  not  a  very  happy,  picture  of  Boswell's 
life.  They  show  him  whilst  young  and  with  vigour  un- 
impaired, rushing  after  pleasure  just  as  his  instincts  im- 
pelled him.  In  the  evening,  with  boon  companions  at 
the  tavern,  he  enjoys  the  full  liberty  which  those  esta- 
blishments were  in  his  days  supposed  to  monopolize, 
and  he  himself,  we  feel  assured,  was  the  most  hilarious 
of  his  tavern  Club.  No  painful  reticence  is  there  im- 
posed upon  him ;  like  all  the  rest  of  the  social  crew, 
he  passes  the  joke  and  the  bottle  with  equal  freedom, 
and  readily  submits  to  the  banter  of  his  brother  wits, 
so  that  he  too  may  level  his  shafts  in  his  turn.  To 
the  jovial  evening  however  succeeds  the  morning  of 
suffering  and  repentance ;  but  no  sooner  has  the  in- 
convenience of  the  debauch  disappeared,  and  elasticity 
of  spirits  returned,  than  Boswell  feels  capable  of  gratify- 
ing his  other  and  higher  tastes,  and  bustles  forth,  filled 
now  with  literary  ardour.  The  form  which  this  feel- 
ing took  in  his  mind  was  rather  exhibited  in  a  passion 

*  September  17,  1777.  Again,  (May  18,  1778,)  when  Boswell 
talked  of  publishing  Sibbald's  Life,  and  Mrs.  Thrale  objected  that  to 
discover  such  weakness  exposes  a  man  when  he  is  gone,  Johnson 
replies,  "  Nay,  it  is  an  honest  picture  of  human  nature." 

Tb 


XV111  INTRODUCTION. 

for  talking  to  literary  men*  than  studying  books ;  and 
so,  hurrying  to  meet  the  most  famous  or  the  last  no- 
torious writer,  Boswell  is  again  happy  in  the  rapid 
circulation  of  ideas  through  his  excited  brain.  The 
charms  of  this  society  are  great  whilst  they  last ;  but 
when  the  mercurial  man  is  alone  again,  he  is  again 
wretched.  As  time  rolls  on,  this  mode  of  life,  with  its 
rapid  action  and  painful  reaction,  begins  to  tell  upon 
his  constitution,  both  bodily  and  mentally.  The  con- 
viviality of  youth  often  degenerates  into  the  sottishness 
of  age ;  and  the  natural  liveliness  and  vivacious  rattle 
of  the  young  man,  if  it  do  not  fail  him  with  years, 
probably  assumes  the  form  of  troublesome  garrulity. 
The  frequent  expression  of  misery  and  dissatisfaction 
which  will  be  found  in  the  Letters  here  laid  before 
the  reader,  are  evidences  that  Boswell  was  not  a  happy 
man.  The  animal  spirits  to  which  he  trusted  fre- 

*  In  a  letter  of  David  Hume's  to  the  Countess  de  Bouffler,  the 
theory  of  Boswell's  literary  mania  is  amusingly  referred  to.  The 
writer  says :  "  A  letter  has  also  come  open  to  me  from  Guy,  the 
bookseller,  by  which  I  learn  that  Mademoiselle  sets  out  post,  in 
company  with  a  friend  of  mine,  a  young  gentleman,  very  good-hu- 
moured, very  agreeable,  and  very  mad.  He  visited  Eousseau  in  his 
mountains,  who  gave  him  a  recommendation  to  Paoli,  the  King  of 
Corsica,  where  this  gentleman,  whose  name  is  Boswell,  was  last 
summer  in  search  of  adventures ;  he  has  such  a  rage  for  literature, 
that  I  dread  some  event  fatal  to  our  friend's  honour.  You  re- 
member the  story  of  Terentia,  who  was  first  married  to  Cicero,  then 
to  Sallust,  and  at  last,  in  her  old-age,  married  a  young  nobleman, 
who  imagined  that  she  must  possess  some  secret  which  would 
convey  to  him  eloquence  and  genius." — Private  Correspondence  x>f 
David  Hume,  p.  131 ;  see  also  Burton's  Life  of  Hume,  vol.  ii., 
p.  307. 


BOSWELL  S    MODE    OF    LIFE.  XIX 

quently  flagged,  and  latterly  failed  him,  in  spite  of  his 
resorting  to  his  wonted  stimulants.  The  hypochondria, 
of  which  he  frequently  complained  at  all  periods  of 
his  life,  seems  to  have  acquired  a  stronger  and  more 
permanent  hold  upon  him  in  his  latter  years,  when 
indeed  his  general  health  was  much  shaken,  and  his 
nervous  system  impaired.  Unfortunately  Boswell's 
hypochondriacal  attacks  were  for  the  most  part  at- 
tributed to  the  debility  occasioned  to  his  system  by  an 
unwise  mode  of  living,  and  to  the  remorse  with  which 
he  regarded  the  loss  of  those  opportunities  which  might 
have  secured  to  him  two  great  objects  of  his  ambition, 
— a  larger  income,  and  a  better  position  generally  in 
the  world.*  In  the  earlier  part  of  his  life,  the  fits  of 
low  spirits,  depression,  hypochondria,  or  whatever  it 
may  be  called,  were  but  short-lived,  and  seem  indeed 
to  have  been  rather  fostered  and  paraded  by  himself ; 
when  they  had  passed  away,  Boswell  was  again  the  gay 
votary  of  pleasure,  which  he  sought,  as  before,  some- 
times with  the  sensual  sensually,  at  others  with  the 
intellectual  intellectually.! 

*  It  may  be  observed,  that  the  Baronetcy  now  in  the  Boswell 
family,  which  would  have  filled  James  Boswell's  heart  with  joy  and 
gladness,  had  it  been  his  lot  to  have  attained  to  that  honour,  was 
not  conferred  until  the  generation  which  succeeded  him. 

f  With  regard  to  Boswell's  hypochondria,  there  is  no  doubt  that 
he  had  all  the  more  respect  for  it  because  it  was  a  disease  from 
which  Dr.  Johnson  suffered.  But  whatever  the  real  nature  of  Bos- 
well's melancholy  may  have  been,  it  was  certainly  different  in  cha- 
racter from  that  to  which  Dr.  Johnson  was  unfortunately  heir.  What 
the  latter  thought  of  his  biographer's  ailment  may  be  seen  in  the 
letter  to  Boswell,  dated  April  8th,  1780.  It  runs  thus  :— "  Having 

I  2 


XX  INTRODUCTION. 

The  secret  which  made  Boswell's  company  so  ac- 
ceptable to  the  learned  and  eminent  men  with  whom 
he  mixed,  will  be  explained  differently ;  good-nature 
and  vivacity  and  amusing  bustle  are  no  doubt  attrac- 
tive qualities  in  society,  and  these  Boswell  possessed ; 
but,  what  was  of  more  importance,  he  was  himself 
very  fond  of  this  society,  and  laid  himself  out  for  it. 
Sir  William  Forbes*  has  said  of  Boswell,  that  "  the 
circle  of  his  acquaintance  among  the  learned,  the  witty, 
and  indeed  among  all  ranks  and  professions,  was  ex- 
tremely extensive,  as  his  talents  were  considerable,  and 
his  convivial  powers  made  his  company  much  in  re- 
quest." Boswell  submitted  to  the  conditions  imposed 
upon  him  by  society,  allowed  himself  to  be  made  the 
butt  of  his  companions,  and  was  in  this  and  other  ways 
useful  as  an  instrument  and  vehicle  for  promoting  con- 
told  you  what  has  happened  to  your  friends,  let  me  say  something 
to  you  of  yourself.  You  are  always  complaining  of  melancholy,  and 
I  conclude  from  those  complaints  that  you  are  fond  of  it.  No  man 
talks  of  that  which  he  is  desirous  to  conceal,  and  every  man  desires 
to  conceal  that  of  which  he  is  ashamed.  Do  not  pretend  to  deny  it, 
manifestum  habemus  furem.  Make  it  an  invariable  and  obligatory 
law  to  yourself  never  to  mention  your  own  mental  diseases.  If  you 
are  never  to  speak  of  them,  you  will  think  on  them  but  little,  and  if 
you  think  little  of  them,  they  will  molest  you  rarely.  When  you 
talk  of  them,  it  is  plain  you  want  either  praise  or  pity ;  for  praise 
there  is  no  room,  and  pity  will  do  you  no  good ;  therefore  from  this 
hour  speak  no  more,  think  no  more,  about  them."  For  Boswell  to 
have  followed  this  advice  would  however  have  been  to  have  aban- 
doned too  great  a  luxury ;  and  possibly  in  after  years  the  complaint 
may  have  grown  to  have  been  more  real  than  Dr.  Johnson  seems  to 
have  given  him  credit  for. 

*  See  the  '  Life  of  Dr.  Beattie.' 


SOCIETY    BOSWELL    MIXED    IN.  XXI 

versation,  discussion,  and  inirth.  Thus  it  required 
some  one  who  could  introduce  a  topic  of  conversation 
with  the  chance  of  failing  in  the  object,  and  of  meet- 
ing the  heavy  blows  of  Dr.  Johnson's  scorn  or  irony. 

Bos  well  however  was  more  than  the  showman  of  Dr. 
Johnson,  though  he  often  appeared  in  that  character ; 
he  was  a  happy  reciter  of  anecdote,  a  good  mimic,  and 
known  to  possess  the  right  of  mingling  in  what  is 
termed  "  good  society,"  where  his  acquirements  might 
well  render  him  both  popular  and  amusing.  Again,  no 
misplaced  modesty  with  respect  to  himself  ever  ren- 
dered him  awkward,  or  others  uncomfortable.  We 
cannot  doubt  that  he  was  frequently  an  object  of  ridi- 
cule, in  whatever  company  he  appeared,  and  to  those 
often  inferior  in  many  respects  to  himself;  but  this 
with  many  would  rather  enhance  his  popularity  than 
otherwise.  It  is  vain  however  further  to  attempt  to 
explain  the  secret  of  Boswell's  forming  one  of  a  society 
of  men  like  Burke,  Reynolds,  and  their  friends :  it  is 
enough  to  know  that,  with  all  his  weaknesses  and 
foibles,  he  was  deemed  worthy  of  such  society,  and 
has  left,  us  its  pleasantest  records. 

With  reference  to  Boswell's  family,  it  is  unnecessary 
to  say  more  than  he  himself  has  recorded  in  many 
places,*  his  ancestry  being  a  subject  of  great  pride  to 
him.  We  find,  for  instance,  all  that  need  be  here 

*  The  lineage  of  the  Boswell  family  is  duly  given  in  the  Baronet- 
age. "  The  family  is  supposed  to  have  been  established  in  Scot- 
land in  the  reign  of  David  I.,  and  it  obtained  the  Barony  of 
Balmuto  in  the  beginning  of  the  fifteenth  century,  by  the  marriage 


XX11  INTRODUCTION. 

detailed  narrated  by  Boswell,  in  a  very  characteristic 
fashion,  in  his  '  Letter  to  the  People  of  Scotland  ;'  but 
it  should  be  observed,  that  the  information  in  ques- 
tion there  presented  to  the  public  has  no  possible 
bearing  on  the  subject  on  which  the  Author  was  writ- 
ing, although  he  had  no  compunction  about  intruding 
it.  It  occurs  in  the  midst  of  an  enthusiastic  burst  of 
patriotism,  and  runs  as  follows  : — "  My  uncle's  great- 
grandfather, that '  worthy  gentleman'  David  Boswell  of 
Auchinleck,  a  true  heart-of-oak,  with  a  vigorous  mind 
and  a  robust  body,  secured  a  male  succession ;  his  uncle, 
though  he  had  four  daughters,  the  eldest  of  whom  was 
married  to  Lord  Cathcart  (who  would  have  been  glad  to 
have  had  an  old  Rock),  was  feudal  enough  to  give  him 
the  estate.  That  Laird  used  to  say,  he  never  saw  a  man 
in  his  life  that  he  did  not  think  himself  his  master  :  I 
cannot  say  so  much,  but  I  will  say  that  I '  call  no  man 
master'  without  reserve.  When  I  have  fixed  my  opi- 
nion upon  an  important  question,  I  maintain  it  as  a 

of  Sir  John  Boswell  with  Mariota,  daughter  and  coheiress  of  Sir 
John  Glen." 

Then  follows  mention  of  various  Davids,  Thomases,  and  Jameses, 
which,  for  brevity,  are  here  omitted  ;  and  we  will  come  to  "Bozzy's" 
grandfather,  who  seems  to  be  the  first  who  applied  his  brains  to 
earn  his  living.  This  grandfather's  name  was  Alexander.  He  is 
termed  a  "  lawyer  of  eminence;"  and  the  legal  talent  seems  in  this  case 
to  have  been  hereditary,  for  his  son  arrived  at  the  dignity  of  the  Bench 
under  the  title  of  Lord  Auchinleck.  Dr.  John  Boswell  was  a  brother 
of  Lord  Auchinleck,  and  their  sister  Veronica  married  Mr.  David 
Montgomerie,  of  Lainshaw.  If  any  one  is  further  curious  as  to  the 
collateral  branches  of  the  family,  he  will  find  the  requisite  informa- 
tion in  the  books  which  are  dedicated  to  such  subjects. 


BOSWELL  S    ANCESTRY.  XX111 

point  of  conscience,  as  a  point  of  honour :  I  am  a 
Tory,  not  a  slave."  He  then  proceeds  to  mention  "  an 
Essay  dictated  to  me  by  Dr.  Johnson,  on  the  distinc- 
tion between  a  Whig  and  a  Tory,"  and  winds  up  this 
curious  ramble  by  gravely  announcing  that  "  there 
may  come  an  enterprise  of  great  moment,  as  to  which 
it  would  be  deeply  culpable  to  conceal  rny  sentiments, 
as  to  which  I  may  think  myself  obliged  to  a  faithful,  an 
intrepid,  an  inflexible  Mentor."  (Page  103.)  Upon  this 
passage  Boswell  seizes  a  fresh  opportunity  of  hanging 
a  long  family  history,  in  the  following  note: — "  Thomas 
Boswell  was  the  first  Laird  of  Auchinleck  (pronounced 
Affleck),  in  Ayrshire,  after  the  estate  had  fallen  to  the 
Crown  by  the  forfeiture  of  the  very  ancient  family  of 
that  ilk  (i.  e.  of  the  same  name),  there  being  no  record 
nor  tradition  of  any  other  family  having  it.  I  am  told 
the  Afflecks  of  England  are  the  heirs  of  the  forfeited 
family ;  I  am  proud  of  the  connection,  but  should  be  un- 
willing to  resign  to  them  the  estate,  of  which  they  have 
now  no  need.  Thomas  Boswell  was  a  descendant  of  the 
family  of  Balmuto  in  Eife,  whose  estate  was  purchased 
in  this  century  by  a  younger  son  of  my  family.  The 
wife  of  Thomas  Boswell  was  a  daughter  of  Campbell  of 
Loudoun,  and  a  granddaughter  of  the  forfeited  Affleck ; 
he  was  honoured  in  1504  with  a  charter  from  James 
IV.  of  Scotland,  '  Dilecto  familiari  nostro  pro  bono  et 
fideli  servitio  nobis  praestito.5  He  was  killed  with  his 
King  at  the  fatal  field  of  Flodden,  in  1513,  fighting 
against  the  English,  though  he  was  himself  of  old  York- 
shire extraction,  being  descended  of  the  respectable 


INTRODUCTION. 

family  of  Bosville  or  Boswell  (for  both  they  and  we  have 
spelt  it  both  ways  at  different  times)  of  Gunthwaite,  in 
the  West  Riding.  After  a  separation  of  ages,  I  united 
our  branch,  in  cordial  friendship,  with  the  stock  or 
Chief,  the  late  Godfrey  Bosville,  Esq.,  as  honest  a  man, 
as  perfect  an  example  of  '  the  noblest  work  of  God/ 
as  ever  breathed.  This  friendship  continued  with  his 
son  William  Bosville,  Esq.,  who,  with  his  father's  ho- 
nest heart,  has  the  curiosity  of  Ulysses,  which  he  has 
gratified  very  extensively  :  he  is  to  let  me  have  a  free- 
hold in  Yorkshire,  a  small  bit  of  the  old  manor,  which 
will  cement  us  from  generation  to  generation.  If  it 
should  be  asked,  What  has  this  note  to  do  here  ?  I 
answer,  To  illustrate  the  author  of  the  text,  and  to 
'  pour  out  all  myself  as  Old  Montaigne.'  I  wish  all  thin 
to  be  known,  and  you  who  censure  it  have  read  it,  and 
must  therefore  know  it.  I  am  at  home  in  Yorkshire, 
and  I  last  year  assisted  at  that  glorious  meeting  where 
loyalty  and  liberty  united  in  addressing  his  Majesty.*" 

*  'Letter  to  the  People,'  etc.,  note  to  p.  103.  In  the  same 
pamphlet  we  find  another  amusing  instance  of  the  author's  mixing 
politics  and  autobiography.  "  I  exhort  you,"  says  Boswell,  "  my 
friends  and  countrymen,  in  the  words  of  my  departed  Goldsmith, 
who  gave  me  many  noctts  Attlcee,  and  gave  me  a  jewel  of  the  finest 
water,  the  acquaintance  of  Sir  Joshua  Keynolds,  I  exhort  you  to 
'  fly  from  petty  tyrants  to  the  throne '"  (pp.  9  9,  1 0  0).  This  allusion 
to  Goldsmith  is  not  in  accordance  with  the  general  remarks  of  Bos- 
well, which,  on  almost  all  occasions,  are  derogatory  and  slighting  to 
the  poet,  and  evince  no  just  appreciation  of  his  "  departed  "  friend. 
Boswell,  it  may  be  noted,  has  not  carried  his  family  history  down 
to  his  father,  the  Scotch  Judge ;  but  enough  will  be  found  of  him 
and  his  character  in  subsequent  pages  of  this  volume. 

This  copy  of  the  pamphlet  in  the  British  Museum  Library  was 


GENERAL    CHARACTERISTICS.  XXV 

Thus  much  will  suffice  for  the  ancestral  history  of 
the  Boswell  family.  We  are  chiefly  concerned  here 
with  the  James  Boswell — the  biographer  of  Johnson. 
In  all  he  has  written,  his  natural  conceit  has  caused 
him  to  present  quite  enough  of  that  favourite  topic 
for  all  reasonable  tastes ;  and,  moreover,  in  the  fol- 
lowing pages  the  opportunity  has  been  taken,  when- 
ever it  has  been  thought  advisable,  to  mention  those 
circumstances  of  his  life  which  seemed  to  have  any 
peculiar  interest,  or  to  relate  to  matters  contained  in 
the  letters  themselves.  Much  has  been  said  and  writ- 
ten upon  this  subject,  and  mostly  to  the  same  purport. 
His  nature  indeed,  though  contradictory,  is  transpa- 
rent ;  but  its  importance,  it  must  be  confessed,  mainly 
attaches  to  him  as  the  biographer  of  Johnson.  As  to 
his  literary  merit,  which  his  great  Work  especially 
exhibits,  that  eminent  contemporary  of  Boswell  Mr. 
Gray*  justly  pointed  out  that  it  consisted  in  his  de- 
tailing exactly  what  he  saw  and  heard,  and  that  any 

the  presentation-copy  to  John  Wilkes,  as  we  see  from  the  inscrip- 
tion on  the  title-page,  which  is  as  follows : — 

"  Comes  jucundus  in  via  pro  vehiculo  est. 
"  To  John  Wilkes,  Esq.,  as  pleasant  a  companion  as  ever  lived, 

from  the  Author. 

"  Will  my  Wilkes  retreat, 

"  And  see,  once  seen  before,  that  ancient  seat,"  etc. 

It  is  in  the  '  Letter  to  the  People  of  Scotland'  that  Boswell  tells 
the  story  that,  before  the  heritable  jurisdictions  were  abolished,  a 
man  was  tried  for  his  life  in  the  court  of  one  of  the  chieftains.  The 
jury  were  going  to  bring  him  in  Not  Guilty,  but  somebody  whispered 
them  that  "the  young  Laird  had  never  seen  an  execution,"  upon 
which  the  verdict  was  Death,  and  the  man  was  hanged. 

*  See,  post,  p.  60. 


XXVI  INTRODUCTION. 

person  who  could  in  like  manner  do  this,  could  write 
a  valuable  book,  even  as  Boswell  did.  Assuming  this 
to  be  true,  it  by  no  means  prevents  our  giving  this 
peculiar  merit,  admirable  as  it  is  rare,  its  due  praise. 

There  is  one  modern  author,  Thomas  Carlyle,  who 
has  so  ably  discussed  the  characteristics*  of  Boswell, 
and  discovered  in  them  a  certain  merit  not  previously 
noted,  that  it  is  necessary  here  to  refer  to  his  remarks. 
However  we  may  be  inclined  to  assent  to  or  differ  from 
the  views  he  has  expressed,  they  are  too  valuable  to  be 
kept  out  of  sight  by  an  impartial  critic  anxious  to 
award  to  Boswell  the  justice  due  to  him. 

"Boswell,"  says  Mr.  Carlyle,  "has  already  been 
much  commented  upon,  but  rather  in  the  way  of  cen- 
sure and  vituperation  than  of  true  recognition.  He 
was  a  man  that  brought  himself  much  before  the 
world ;  confessed  that  he  eagerly  courted  fame,  or,  if 
that  were  not  possible,  notoriety,  of  which  latter  he 
gained  far  more  than  seemed  his  due.  The  public  were 
incited,  not  only  by  their  natural  love  of  scandal,  but 
by  a  special  ground  of  envy,  to  say  whatever  ill  of  him 
could  be  said." 

The  writer  then  proceeds  to  show  how  his  mean  or 
bad  qualities  were  open  to  the  dullest  eye,  while  the 
better  qualities  were  in  nowise  self-evident,  however 
really  admirable  "  That  he  was  a  winebibber,  a  gross 
liver,  gluttonously  fond  of  whatever  would  yield  him  a 
little  solacement,  were  it  only  of  a  stomachic  character, 
is  undeniable  enough.  That  he  was  vain,  heedless,  a 

*  See  his  '  Critical  and  Miscellaneous  Essays,'  vol.  iv.  p.  31. 


APOLOGY  FOR  BOSWELL.  XXV11 

babbler  -,  had  much  of  the  sycophant  alternating  with 
the  braggadocio,  curiously  spiced  too  with  an  all-per- 
vading dash  of  the  coxcomb ;  that  he  gloried  much 
when  the  tailor  by  a  court-suit  had  made  a  new  man 
of  him  ;  and,  in  short,  if  you  will,  lived  no  day  of  his 
life  without  doing  and  saying  more  than  one  preten- 
tious ineptitude  : — all  this  unhappily  is  evident  as  the 
sun  at  noon ;  the  very  look  of  Boswell  seems  to  have 
signified  so  much.  In  that  cocked  nose, — cocked  partly 
in  triumph  over  his  weaker  fellow-creatures,  partly  to 
snuff  up  the  smell  of  coming  pleasure  and  scent  it 
from  afar ;  in  those  bag  cheeks,  hanging  like  half-filled 
wine- skins,  still  able  to  contain  more ;  in  that  coarsely 
protruded  shelf  mouth,  that  fat  developed  chin  ;  in  all 
this  who  sees  not  sensuality,  pretension,  boisterous  im- 
becility enough, — much  that  could  not  have  been  orna- 
mental in  the  temper  of  a  great  man's  over-fed  great 
man  (what  the  Scotch  name  flunkey),  though  it  had 
been  more  natural  there  ?" 

On  the  other  hand,  and  unfortunately  for  Boswell's 
repute,  Mr.  Carlyle  shows  that  whatever  genuine 
good  lay  in  him  was  nowise  so  self-evident.  That 
Boswell  was  a  hunter  with  spiritual  notabilities, — that 
he  loved  such,  and  longed,  and  even  crept  and  crawled 
to  be  near  them, — that  he  could  not  help  doing  this, 
"  we  account  a  very  singular  merit.  The  man,  once 
for  all,  had  an  '  open  sense/  an  open,  loving  heart, 
which  so  few  have.  Where  excellence  existed,  he  was 
compelled  to  acknowledge  it ;  was  drawn  towards  it 
(let  the  old  sulphur  brand  of  a  Laird  say  what  he  liked) 


XXV111  INTRODUCTION. 

could  not  but  walk  with  it, — if  not  as  superior,  if  not 
as  equal,  then  as  inferior  and  lackey :  better  so  than 
not  at  all." 

It  is  this  "  love  of  excellence  "  which  seems  to  Mr. 
Carlyle  to  be  the  redeeming  quality  of  Boswell's 
character.  There  is  a  hero-worship  exhibited  by 
the  Scotch  Laird  towards  the  English  author,  which 
renders  what  was  contemptible  to  many,  respectable, 
and  admirable  in  Mr.  Carlyle's  eye.  Nature,  edu- 
cation, lairdism,  and  politics,  seem  to  have  been  van- 
quished and  atoned  for  by  this  following  after  great- 
ness. It  is  however  but  too  true  that  poor  Boswell 
made  much  zealous  pursuit  after  what  was  extraordi- 
nary and  evil,  as  well  as  after  what  was  great  and  good. 
Mrs.  Rudd  (the  courtesan,  who  escaped  the  penalty 
of  forgery  by  betraying  her  paramour  to  death)  was 
sought  out  by  this  hero- worshipper,  no  less  than  Paoli. 
Rousseau  and  Dr.  Johnson  were  alike  subjected  to 
Boswell's  obsequiousness  and  admiration.  The  so- 
ciety of  candidates  for  the  gallows  and  literary  glory 
were  honoured  in  the  same  day  by  this  lover  of  ex- 
cellence for  its  own  sake.  However  Mr.  Carlyle  has 
offered  his  apology  for  Boswell  so  well  that,  although 
it  may  not  carry  conviction  to  the  reader,  it  is 
but  fair  to  the  memory  of  Boswell  that  the  able 
critic's  view  of  his  character  should  be  well  considered. 
"It  has  been  commonly  said,"  continues  Mr.  Carlyle, 
"  that  the  man's  vulgar  vanity  was  all  that  attracted 
him  to  Johnson  ;  he  delighted  to  be  seen  near  him , 
to  be  thought  connected  with  him.  Now  let  it  be 


CONNECTION    WITH    JOHNSON.  XXIX 

at  once  granted  that  no  consideration,  springing  out 
of  vulgar  vanity,  could  well  be  absent  from  the  mind 
of  James  Boswell  in  this  his  intercourse  with  Johnson, 
or  in  any  considerable  transaction  of  his  life ;  at  the 
same  time,  ask  yourself  whether  such  vanity,  and  no- 
thing else,  actuated  him  therein  ?  whether  this  was  the 
true  essence  and  moving  principle  of  the  phenomenon, 
or  not  rather  its  outward  vesture  and  the  accidental  en- 
vironment (and  defacement)  in  which  it  came  to  light? 
The  man  was  by  nature  and  habit  vain,  a  sycophant- 
coxcomb, — be  it  granted :  but  had  there  been  nothing 
more  than  vanity  in  him,  was  Samuel  Johnson  ^the 
man  of  men  to  whom  he  must  attach  himself  ?  At  the 
date  when  Johnson  was  a  poor,  rusty-coated  '  scholar/ 
dwelling  in  Temple  Lane,  and  indeed  throughout  their 
whole  intercourse  afterwards,  were  there  not  Chan- 
cellors and  Prime  Ministers  enough ;  graceful  gentle- 
men, the  glass  of  fashion ;  honour-giving  noblemen ; 
dinner-giving  rich  men  ;  renowned  fire-eaters,  swords- 
men, gownsmen ;  quacks  and  realities  of  all  hues, — any 
one  of  whom  bulked  much  larger  in  the  world's  eye 
than  Johnson  ever  did  ?  to  any  one  of  whom,  by  half 
that  subrnissiveness  and  assiduity,  Bozzy  might  have 
recommended  himself,  and  sat  there,  the  envy  of  sur- 
rounding lickspittles,  pocketing  now  solid  emolument, 
swallowing  now  well-cooked  viands  and  wines*  of  rich 

*  "  I  allow,"  quoth  Boswell,  in  a  conversation  held  with  Dr. 
Johnson,  April  7,  1778,  "there  may  be  greater  pleasures  than  from 
wine ;  I  have  had  more  pleasure  from  your  conversation,  I  assure 
you  I  have." 


XXX  INTRODUCTION. 

vintage  j  in  each  case,  also,  shone  on  by  some  glittering- 
reflex  of  renown  or  notoriety,  so  as  to  be  the  observed 
of  innumerable  observers.  To  no  one  of  whom  how- 
ever, though  otherwise  a  most  diligent  solicitor  and 
purveyor,  did  he  so  attach  himself :  such  vulgar  courtier- 
ships  were  his  paid  drudgery  or  leisure  amusement ; 
the  worship  of  Johnson  was  his  grand,  ideal,  voluntary 
business.  Does  not  the  fro  thy -hearted  yet  enthusi- 
astic man,  doffing  his  advocate's  wig,  regularly  take 
post,  and  hurry  up  to  London  for  the  sake  of  his  sage 
chiefly  ;*  as  to  a  Feast  of  Tabernacles,  the  Sabbath  of 
his  whole  year  ?  The  plate-licker  and  wine-bibber 
dives  into  Bolt  Court,  to  sip  muddy  coffee  with  a  cy- 
nical old  man,  and  sour-tempered  blind  old  woman 
(feeling  the  cups,  whether  they  are  full,  with  her  finger) ; 
and  patiently  endures  contradiction  without  end ;  too 
happy  so  he  may  but  be  allowed  to  listen  and  live. 
Nay,  it  does  not  appear  that  vulgar  vanity  could  ever 
have  been  much  flattered  by  Boswell's  relation  to  John- 
son. Mr.  Croker  says,  Johnson  was,  to  the  last,  little 

*  Without  detracting  from  the  enthusiasm  with  which  Boswell 
pursued  his  revered  Mend,  we  have  nevertheless  abundant  evidence 
that  the  joys  of  the  Metropolis,  even  without  the  Doctor's  presence, 
were  a  magnet  quite  sufficiently  potent  to  withdraw  Boswell  from 
Scotland  as  often  as  might  be.  Thus  we  read,  "  I  had  long  com- 
plained to  him  [Dr.  Johnson]  that  I  felt  myself  discontented  in  Scot- 
land, as  too  narrow  a  sphere,  and  that  I  wished  to  make  my  chief 
residence  in  London  the  great  scene  of  ambition,  instruction,  and 
amusement, — a  scene  which  was  to  me,  comparatively  speaking,  a 
heaven  upon  earth." — Life  of  Johnson,  Sept.  20, 1777.  We  shall  see 
however  that  Boswell  had  fewer  opportunities  of  visiting  London, 
or  of  enjoying  Dr.  Johnson's  society,  than  might  be  supposed. 


APOLOGY    FOR    BO  SWELL.  XXXI 

regarded  by  the  great  world  ;*  from  which,  for  a  vulgar 
vanity,  all  honour,  as  from  its  fountain,  descends. 
Bozzy,  ever  among  Johnson's  friends  and  special  ad- 
mirers, seems  rather  to  have  been  laughed  at  than 
envied ;  his  officious,  whisking,  consequential  ways,  the 
daily  reproofs  and  rebuffs  he  underwent,  could  gain 
from  the  world  no  golden  but  only  leaden  opinions.  His 
devout  discipleship  seemed  nothing  more  than  mean 
spanielship,  in  the  general  eye.  His  mighty  constella- 
tion, or  sun,  round  which  he,  as  satellite,  observantly 
gyrated,  was,  for  the  mass  of  men,  but  a  huge  ill- 
snuffed  tallow-light,  and  he  a  weak  night-moth,  circling 
foolishly,  dangerously  about  it,  not  knowing  what  he 
wanted.  If  he  enjoyed  Highland  dinners  and  toasts 
as  henchman  to  a  new  sort  of  chieftain,  Henry  Erskine, 
in  the  domestic  '  Outer  House,'  could  hand  him  a  shil- 
ling '  for  the  sight  of  his  bear.'  Doubtless  the  man 
was  laughed  at,  and  often  heard  himself  laughed  at,  for 
his  Johnsonism.  To  be  envied  is  the  grand  and  sole 
aim  of  vulgar  vanity  ;  to  be  filled  with  good  things,  is 
that  of  sensuality ;  for  Johnson  perhaps  no  man  living 
envied  poor  Bozzy ;  and  of  good  things  (except  himself 
paid  for  them)  there  was  no  vestige  in  that  acquaint- 
anceship. Had  nothing  other  or  better  than  vanity 
and  sensuality  been  there,  Johnson  and  Bos  well  had 
never  come  together,  or  had  soon  and  finally  sepa- 
rated again.  *  * 

*  Mr.  Croker  refers  to  fashionable  society ;  for  assuredly  not  a 
few  of  the  men  of  Johnson's  time,  whom  we  now  deem  as  being  of 
real  and  intrinsic  greatness,  were  of  his  acquaintance. 


XXX11  INTRODUCTION. 

"  James  BosWell  belonged,  in  his  corruptible  part,  to 
the  lowest  classes  of  mankind,  a  foolish,  inflated  crea- 
ture, swimming  in  an  element  of  self-conceit;  but 
in  his  corruptible  there  dwelt  an  incorruptible,  all  the 
more  impressive  and  indubitable  for  the  strange  lodg- 
ing it  had  taken." 

The  hero-worship  exhibited  by  Bos  well  towards 
Johnson  was,  as  above  remarked,  shown  also  for  not 
a  few  besides;  and  indeed  the  opportunities  for  its 
particular  display  to  his  "  great  friend  and  moralist," 
during  the  score  of  years  their  acquaintance  lasted, 
were  not  used  as  they  might  have  been.  Stih1,  could 
he  have  commanded  the  position  which  his  rivals  Haw- 
kins, Piozzi,  Strahan,  and  others  occupied,  it  cannot 
be  doubted  that  his  Work,  wonderful  as  it  is,  would 
have  been  greatly  enriched.  Unfortunately  Boswell, 
besides  being  a  hero-worshipper,  was  one  of  those  who 
are  enchanted  with  the  various  dissipations  of  London. 
He  had,  from  an  early  period,  a  passion  for  literature, 
and  it  was  this  which  happily  drew  him  to  Dr.  Johnson, 
who,  although  a  "  poor,  rusty-coated  scholar,"  was  yet 
in  the  enjoyment  of  the  highest  literary  fame  of  that 
day.  This  was  the  kind  of  fame  which  appealed,  after 
all,  most  strongly  to  the  sympathies,  taste,  and  ambi- 
tion of  Boswell,  who,  it  has  been  seen,  is  described,  in 
a  letter  of  Mr.  Hume's,  to  have  been  subject  to  a  spe- 
cies of  literary  mania. 

Beside  the  above  apologies  for  Boswell's  character, 
offered  by  Mr.  Carlyle,  he  proposes  the  following  expla- 
nation with  respect  to  an  unusual  defect  in  its  "  anml- 


BOSWELL  S    LIFE    OF    JOHNSON.  XXX111 

gamation  and  subordination,"  but  which  possibly  is  as 
true  of  all  men,  especially  of  those  of  mixed  character 
and  possessed  of  conflicting  qualities,  as  it  is  of  Bos- 
well  : — "  The  highest,"  says  he,  "  lay  side  by  side  with 
the  lowest,  not  morally  combined  with  it  and  spiritually 
transfiguring  it,  but  tumbling  in  half-mechanical  juxta- 
position with  it ;  and,  from  time  to  time,  as  the  mad 
alternative  chanced,  irradiating  it  or  eclipsed  by  it." 

"  The  world,  as  we  said,"  continues  Carlyle,  "  has 
been  but  unjust  to  him  ;  discerning  only  the  outer  ter- 
restrial and  often  sordid  mass ;  without  eye,  as  it  gene- 
rally is,  for  his  inner  divine  secret ;  and  thus  figuring 
him  nowise  as  a  god  Pan,  but  simply  of  the  bestial 
species,  like  the  cattle  on  a  thousand  hills.  Nay, 
sometimes  a  strange  enough  hypothesis  has  been 
started  of  him ;  as  if  it  were  in  virtue  even  of  these 
same  bad  qualities  that  he  did  his  good  work ;  as 
if  it  were  the  very  fact  of  his  being  among  the  worst 
men  in  this  world  that  had  enabled  him  to  write  one 
of  the  best  books  therein.  Falser  hypothesis,  we  may 
venture  to  say,  never  rose  in  human  soul.  Bad  is  by 
its  nature  negative,  and  can  do  nothing ;  whatsoever 
enables  us  to  do  anything  is  by  its  very  nature  good. 
Alas,  that  there  should  be  teachers  in  Israel,  or  even 
learners,  to  whom  this  world-ancient  fact  is  still  proble- 
matical, or  even  deniable  !  Boswell  wrote  a  good  Book 
because  he  had  a  heart  and  an  eye  to  discern  Wisdom, 
and  an  utterance  to  render  it  forth ;  because  of  his  free 
insight,  his  lively  talent,  above  all,  of  his  love  and  child- 
like open-mindedness.  His  sneaking  sycophancies,  his 


XXxiv  INTRODUCTION. 

greediness  and  forwardness,  whatever  was  bestial  and 
earthly  in  him,  are  so  many  blemishes  in  his  book,  which 
still  disturb  us  in  its  clearness;  wholly  hindrances, 
not  helps.  Towards  Johnson  however  his  feeling  was 
not  Sycophancy,  which  is  the  lowest,  but  Reverence, 
which  is  the  highest  of  human  feelings.  None  but  a 
Reverent  man*  (which  so  unspeakably  few  are)  could 
have  found  his  way  from  Boswell's  environment  to 
Johnson's." 

The  misappreciation  of  Boswell  here  spoken  of  by 
Mr.  Carlyle  frequently  took  a  very  bitter  form  in  his 
own  day.  Thus  Peter  Pindar,  for  instance,  sings  of 
him : — 

"  In  vain  at  glory  gudgeon  Boswell  snaps, 
His  mind,  a  paper  kite  composed  of  scraps, 
Just  o'er  the  tops  of  chimneys  formed  to  fly, 
Not  with  a  wing  sublime  to  mount  the  sky. 
Say  to  the  dog,  his  head's  a  downright  drum, 
Unequal  to  the  history  of  Tom  Thumb ; 
Nay,  tell  of  anecdote !  that  thirsty  leech, 
He  is  not  equal  to  a  Tyburn  speech."f 

A  multitude  of  other  passages  might  be  cited  which 
give  as  little  honour  to  poor  Boswell. 

*  "  I  find  in  my  Journal  the  following  reflection : — c  So  ready  is 
my  mind  to  suggest  matter  for  dissatisfaction,  that  I  felt  a  sort  of 
regret  that  I  was  so  easy.  I  missed  that  awful  reverence  with  which 
I  used  to  contemplate  Mr.  Samuel  Johnson  in  the  complete  magni- 
tude of  his  literary,  moral,  and  religious  character.  I  have  a  won- 
derful superstitious  love  of  mystery.'  " — 'Life  of  Johnson'  March 
18,  1778. 

f  See  the  Postscript  to  a  "  Poetical  and  Congratulatory  Epistle 
to  James  Boswell,  on  his  '  Journal  of  a  Tour  to  the  Hebrides.'  " 


SECRET    OF    HIS    AUTHORSHIP.  XXXV 

With  respect  to  his  habit  of  courting  the  society 
of  great  men,  to  which  Mr.  Carlyle  has  referred,  Bos- 
well  has  given  his  own  explanation  generally  of  his 
feelings,  which  differs  somewhat  from  that  of  his 
apologist.  "When,"  says  he,  "we  see  a  man  of 
eminence,  we  desire  nothing  more  than  to  be  of  his 
acquaintance.  We  then  wish  to  have  him  as  a  com- 
panion ;  and  when  we  have  attained  to  that,  we  are 
impatient  till  we  gain  a  superiority  over  him."*  An- 
other literary  authority  of  the  present  day  has,  in 
his  contribution  of  '  Boswelliana'  to  the  Philobiblion 
Society,  after  observing  that  he  has  limited  the  selec- 
tion of  personal  anecdotes  to  Boswell  himself,  and  to 
his  own  remarks  on  men  and  things,  says  of  those 
anecdotes,  "  They  are,  I  conceive,  amusing  in  them- 
selves, and  characteristic  of  a  man  of  letters,  whose  rank 
as  an  author  is  due  rather  to  his  moral  than  to  his 
intellectual  qualifications.  The  lively  vanity  that  sharp- 
ened his  own  self-conceit  was  clearly  akin  to  that  genial 
appreciation  of  art  and  worth  in  others  which  have 
made  him  the  most  delightful  of  biographers;  and 
the  unconsciousness  of  his  own  weakness,  here  so  po- 
tent, has  permitted  him  to  record  those  traits  and  in- 
cidents, which  a  more  critical  affection  would  have 
only  perceived  to  conceal,  but  which  the  lover  of  his- 
toric reality  may  esteem  and  enjoy,  not  only  without 
disparagement  to  the  hero,  but  with  a  sympathetic  and 
almost  personal  interest,  that  the  most  elaborate  or 
even  eloquent  narration  often  fails  to  supply."  Indeed 

*  Boswelliana,  Philobiblion  Society,  vol.  ii. 

c  2 


XXXVI  INTRODUCTION. 

the  very  fact  that  Boswell  narrates  what  others  would 
suppress,  is  a  guarantee  of  his  fidelity  and  the  great 
distinctive  mark  of  his  writings.  Reserve  was  at  all 
times  painful  to  him  ;*  but  when  he,  his  doings  or 
sayings,  formed  part  of  a  story,  it  was  impossible  for 
him  to  conceal  that  part,  as  it  was  unnatural  to  him 
to  give  a  false  colouring  or  to  practise  invention. 

Any  criticism  upon  Boswell's  character  would  be 
imperfect  without  his  own,  and  for  this  we  may  turn 
to  the  description  which  he  gives  of  himself  in  the 
'  Tour  to  the  Hebrides.'  "  Think,"  says  he,  "of  a  gen- 
tleman of  ancient  blood,  the  pride  of  which  was  his 
predominant  passion.  .  .  He  had  thought  more  than 
anybody  had  supposed,  and  had  a  pretty  good  stock  of 
general  learning  and  knowledge.  He  had  all  Dr.  John- 
son's principles,  with  some  degree  of  relaxation.  He 
had  rather  too  little  than  too  much  prudence."  And 
he  proceeds  to  quote  a  line,  to  describe  himself  more 
accurately,  affirming  that  he  resembled  sometimes 

"  The  best  good  man,  with  the  worst-natured  Muse." 
Mr.  Croker  annotates  this  passage  by  citing  the  au- 
thority of  Lord  Stowell,  that  Boswell  enjoyed  among 
his  countrymen  "  about  the  proportion  of  respect  that 
you  might  guess  would  be  shown  to  &  jolly  fellow" 

Not  only  was  Boswell  compelled  by  an  irresistible 
impulse  to  talk  and  write  of  himself,  but  it  appears 
that  when  he  sang  he  preferred  this  theme  to  every 
other.  A  jovial  Club  had  been  formed  at  Edinburgh, 

*  See  the  Preface  to  the  Second  Edition  of  the  '  Life  of  Johnson,' 
referred  to,  post,  in  the  remarks  made  on  the  letter,  anno  1793. 


SONG    ON    HIMSELF.  XXXV11 

called  the  "  Soaping  Club,"  from  the  motto, "  Let  every 
man  soap  his  own  beard," — another  form  of  the  phrase, 
"  Every  man  in  his  own  humour."  Boswell  was  a 
member  of  this  Club,  and  composed  the  following  song, 
which  he  sang  and  afterwards  published  in  a  collection 
of  similar  productions  : — 

"  BOSWELL  :  a  Song :  to  the  tune  of '  Old  Sir  Symon,'  etc. 

"  Boswell,  of  Soapers  the  king, 

On  Tuesdays  at  Tom's*  does  appear; 
And  when  he  does  talk  and  does  sing, 

To  him  ne'er  a  one  can  come  near ; 
For  he  talks  with  such  ease  and  such  grace, 

That  all  charmed  to  attention  we  sit ; 
And  he  sings  with  so  comic  a  face, 

That  our  sides  are  just  ready  to  split. 

"  Boswell  is  modest  enough : 

Himself  not  quite  Phrebus  he  thinks  ; 
He  never  does  flourish  with  snuff, 

And  Hock  is  the  liquor  he  drinks  ; 
And  he  owns  that  Ned  C ,f  the  priest, 

May  to  something  of  humour  pretend ; 
And  he  swears  that  he  is  not  in  jest 

When  he  calls  the  same  C his  friend. 

"  Boswell  is  pleasant  and  gay, 

For  frolic  by  nature  design'd  ; 
He  heedlessly  rattles  away 

When  the  company  is  to  his  mind. 
This  maxim,  he  says,  you  may  see 

We  can  never  have  corn  without  chaff ; 
So  not  a  bent  sixpence  cares  he 

Whether  with  him  or  at  him  you  laugh. 


*  A  tavern  where  the  Soapers  resorted. 

f  Who  this  Soaper,  of  a  dissyllabic  name,  was,  is  now  beyond  the 
range  of  historical  research. 


XXXV111  INTRODUCTION. 

"  Boswell  does  women  adore, 

And  never  once  means  to  deceive, 
He 's  in  love  with  at  least  half  a  score ; 

If  they  're  serious,  he  laughs  in  his  sleeve. 
He  has  all  the  bright  fancy  of  youth, 

With  the  judgment  of  fifty-and-five  ; 
In  short,  to  declare  the  plain  truth, 

There's  no  better  fellow  alive." 

This  curious  doggrel  affords  a  common  example  of  the 
good  terms  on  which  its  composer  lived,  as  well  with 
himself,  as  with  those  in  whose  company  he  was  wont 
to  sing  the  song.  Boswell  had  at  all  times  a  very 
high  notion  of  the  wit  and  humour  which  he  cele- 
brates in  the  above  verses.  He  had  no  hesitation  to 
compare  himself,  for  instance,  with  John  Wilkes. 
"  When  Wilkes  and  I  sat  together,"  says  he,  "  each 
glass  of  wine  produced  a  flash  of  wit,  like  gunpowder 
thrown  on  the  fire, — Puff,  Puff!"*  But  Boswell  was 
quite  as  fond  of  receiving  compliments  from  others  as  of 
paying  them  to  himself :  thus  he  gravely  records,  and 
seems  to  acquiesce  in,  the  flattery  which  Dankerville 
paid  him,  when  he  said,  "  I  was  the  man  of  genius 
who  had  the  best  heart  he  had  ever  known."*  No 
doubt  Boswell  did  at  times  flatter  himself  with  the 
idea  that  he  was  a  man  of  genius.  He  was  clearly 
wrong  in  this  estimate ;  but  the  combination  of  qua- 
lities he  exhibited  is  certainly  so  extraordinary  as  to 
excuse  great  differences  of  opinion  with  respect  to  the 
real  nature  of  his  composition  as  a  whole. 

The  collection  of  Boswell's  sayings  just  referred  to 

*  Boswelliana. 


MERIT    OF    HIS    AUTHORSHIP.  XXxix 

shows,  it  would  seem,  that  he  had  not  a  very  just  ap- 
preciation of  the  comparative  value  of  conversations 
which  he  heard.  His  chief  merit  lies  in  the  extra- 
ordinary accuracy*  of  the  reports  he  made,  and  not 
in  the  felicity  with  which  he  chose  his  opportunities. 
The  record  of  the  veriest  commonplace  remarks  made 
in  Boswell's  presence,  which  subjected  him  to  the 
ridicule  and  satire  of  his  contemporaries,  has,  it  is 
true,  a  certain  value  to  us  at  the  present  day ;  but 
we  could  have  desired  other  conversations  in  addition, 
if  not  in  their  stead.  If  we  look,  for  example,  into 
the  Index  to  the  '  Life  of  Johnson,'  at  the  words 
"  wine"  and  "  drinking"  with  some  thirty  references, 
we  see  an  example  of  the  predominance  of  a  subject 
which,  being  very  interesting  to  the  biographer,  is 
made  to  assume  an  undue  importance.  Bos  well  seems 
to  have  been  conscious  at  times  that  he  threw  away 
opportunities  which  he  might  have  employed  to  great 

*  How  Boswell  prided  himself  upon  his  extreme  accuracy  is 
amusingly  exhibited  in  the  following  conversation,  which  he  thought 
it  worth  his  while  to  preserve.  "  One  of  the  gentlemen  said,  he 
had  seen  three  folio  volumes  of  Dr.  Johnson's  Sayings,  collected  by 
me," — a  harmless  remark  enough,  but  not  pleasing  just  then  either 
to  Dr.  Johnson  or  Boswell ;  whereupon  the  latter  replied,  "  I  must 
put  you  right,  Sir,  for  I  am  very  exact  in  authenticity.  You  could 
not  see  folio  volumes,  for  I  have  none :  you  might  have  seen  some 
in  quarto  and  octavo.  This  is  an  inattention  which  we  should 
guard  against."  Johnson:  "Sir,  it  is  a  want  of  concern  about  vera- 
city :  he  does  not  know  that  he  saw  any  volumes ;  if  he  had  seen 
them,  he  coidd  have  remembered  their  size."  The  "  gentleman" 
must  have  been  somewhat  surprised  at  the  pompous  schoolmasterish 
rebuke  of  the  owner  of  the  quartos  and  octavos,  topped  up  by  the 
bitter  personality  of  Dr.  Johnson. 


xl  INTRODUCTION. 

advantage ;  and  he  was  probably  present  on  frequent 
occasions  when  he  was  unable  to  grasp  the  subject 
discussed,  or  enter  into  the  spirit  of  the  great  men 
who  carried  on  the  animated  debate. 

Whether  the  details  which  Boswell  has  preserved 
be  intrinsically  valuable  or  no,  they  have  the  merit  of 
assuring  us  of  the  truthfulness  of  the  narrator,  and 
demonstrate  the  peculiar  fitness  of  the  man  for  doing 
that  which  he  undertook.  He  says,  in  one  part  of 
Dr.  Johnson's  Life,*  "I  cannot  allow  any  fragment 
whatever,  that  floats  on  my  memory  concerning  the 
great  subject  of  this  Work,  to  be  lost :  though  a  small 
particular  may  appear  trifling  to  some,  it  will  be  relished 
by  others  ;  while  every  little  spark  adds  something  to 
the  general  blaze ;  and,  to  please  the  true,  candid,  warm 
admirers  of  Johnson,  or  in  any  degree  increase  the 
splendour  of  his  reputation,  I  bid  defiance  to  the  shafts 
of  ridicule  or  even  of  malignity.  Showers  of  these 
have  been  discharged  at  my  'Journal  of  a  Tour  to  the 
Hebrides;'  yet  it  still  sails  unhurt  along  the  stream 
of  time,  and,  as  an  attendant  upon  Johnson, 

'  Pursues  the  triumph,  and  partakes  the  gale.' " 

Had  Boswell  transmitted  to  posterity  the  great  con- 
versations only  of  Dr.  Johnson  and  his  learned  as- 
sociates, leaving  unnoted  the  small  "fragments"  of 
ordinary  passing  conversation, — or  had  he  forgotten 
to  depict  the  angry  roar  of  irritated  combatants,  or 
their  uncouth  mirth  and  personal  sarcasm,  not  un- 

*  September  22,  1777. 


BOSWELL'S  WORKS.  xli 

frequently  levelled  at  himself, — we  might  not  have 
regarded  his  pictures  as  so  faithful  or  accurate. 

BoswelTs  great  production  indeed  may  be  likened 
to  a  succession  of  photographs,  some  more,  some  less 
successful,  but  none  "  touched  up"  that  they  may  ap- 
pear more  effective.  By  an  accident,  too  strong  an 
illumination  may  occasionally  fall  upon  some  insignifi- 
cant detail,  while  the  leading  parts  of  the  scene  are 
left  obscure ;  or  the  points  of  view  chosen  may  some- 
times not  be  happy ;  or  at  others  the  lights  and  shades 
may  be  too  violent  and  abrupt ;  but  the  pictures  are 
nevertheless  perfect  reflections  of  all  that  the  medium 
employed  was  capable  of  representing.* 

Although  Boswell  is  now  recognized  as  an  author, 
through  the  repute  of  his  '  Life  of  Johnson/  yet  he 
published  several  other  works,  the  fame  of  which  has 
not  survived.  The  following  list  of  his  Works  is,  it  is 
believed,  correct : — The  Cub,  a  poem  (Dodsley).  An 
Ode  to  Tragedy.f  Contributions  to  the  Collection 
of  Original  Poems  by  Scotch  Gentlemen  (1762). 
Letters  between  the  Hon.  Andrew  Erskine  and  James 
Boswell  (London,  1763).  Journal  of  a  Tour  to  the 

*  There  are  innumerable  and  ludicrous  examples  of  Boswell's 
pride  in  his  matter-of-factness  in  the  '  Life  of  Johnson,'  particularly 
when  he  is  depreciating  Mrs.  Thrale's  tales.  Thus,  when  the  lady 
asked  Boswell  to  repeat  a  story  "told  you  by  the  old  woman"  the 
exulting  Boswell  cries  out,  "  Now,  Madam,  give  me  leave  to  catch 
you  in  the  fact ;  it  was  not  an  old  woman,  but  an  old  man" 

f  This  Ode  was  published  anonymously,  and  was  dedicated  by 
Boswell  to  himself.  It  bears  the  date  of  1671,  probably  a  mis- 
print for  1761.  See  the  Erskiue  Correspondence  in  relation  to  this 
production. 


xlii  INTRODUCTION. 

Island  of  Corsica,  with  Memoirs  of  General  Paoli 
(Glasgow,  1768).  British  Essays  in  favour  of  the 
Brave  Corsicans,  by  several  hands,  collected  and  pub- 
lished (London,  1769).  The  Essence  of  the  Douglas 
Cause.  Decision  upon  the  Question  of  Literary  Pro- 
perty in  the  Cause  of  Hinton  v.  Donaldson  (1774). 
Letter  to  the  People  of  Scotland  respecting  the  alarm- 
ing attempt  to  infringe  the  Articles  of  the  Union,  and 
introduce  a  most  pernicious  innovation  by  diminishing 
the  number  of  the  Lords  of  Session  (Edinburgh,  1785). 
The  Journal  of  a  Tour  to  the  Hebrides  (1786).  A 
Conversation  between  King  George  III.  and  Dr.  John- 
son (1790,  quarto).  The  Life  of  Dr.  Samuel  Johnson 
(2  vols.  quarto ;  Dilly,  Poultry,  1791).*  To  which 
we  may  add  various  Articles  in  the  London  Magazine, 
contributed  between  the  years  1777-1782,  entitled 
the  '  Hypochondriac,'  and  probably  '  Dorando,'  a  tale 
founded  on  the  mystery  of  the  Douglas  Cause,  and  a 
Poem  on  the  Slave-trade.  He  was  also  a  frequent 
contributor  to  the  magazines  throughout  his  life.f 

A  few  words  must  suffice  with  regard  to  Boswell's 
correspondent,  the  Rev.  William  Johnson  Temple, 

*  In  Watt's  'Bibliotheca  Britannica'  another  work  is  attributed 
to  Boswell  under  the  title  of  'A  Series  of  his  Epistolary  Corre- 
spondence and  Conversations  with  many  eminent  persons,  and  vari- 
ous Original  Pieces  of  his  composition  never  before  published,' 
etc.,  1791.  This  is  however  only  a  part  of  the  titlepage  of  Dr. 
Johnson's  Life,  and  descriptive  of  the  contents  of  that  work. 

f  He  states  that  he  was  a  proprietor  of  the  '  London  Magazine.' 
It  should  be  perhaps  here  mentioned  that  copies  of  several  of  the 
Works  mentioned  above  have  escaped  the  search  made  for  them. 


REV.  W.  J.  TEMPLE.  xliii 

LL.B.,  usually  described  by  Boswell  as  "  my  old  and 
most  intimate  friend."  His  preferments  were  the 
Vicarage  of  St.  Gluvias,  Cornwall,  and  the  Rectory 
of  Mamhead,  in  Devonshire ;  and,  although  little  is 
known  of  him  now,  we  may  infer,  from  what  appears 
in  Boswell's  letters  and  a  few  other  incidental  traces, 
that  he  was  a  man  of  cultivated  and  literary  tastes 
and  amiable  character.  He  published  a  pamphlet,  en- 
titled '  An  Essay  on  the  Clergy,  their  Studies,  Recrea- 
tions, etc.,'  which  is  referred  to  in  the  following  pages; 
also  'A  Selection  of  Historical  and  Political  Memoirs ;' 
and  'An  Historical  Essay  on  the  Abuse  of  Unrestrained 
Power  '  (1778).  Mr.  Temple  and  his  affairs  were  fre- 
quently the  subject  of  correspondence  between  Nicholls 
and  the  poet  Gray  ;*  he  was  a  personal  friend  of  the 
latter,  and  furnished  a  few  pages  of  criticism  on  his 
character,  which,  having  by  accident  found  their  way 
into  the  Life  by  Mr.  Mason,  were  also  subsequently 
borrowed  by  Dr.  Johnson. f 

Mr.  Temple  seems  to  have  been  a  faithful  monitor 
to  his  friend  Boswell,  but  unfortunately  we  are  not 
in  possession  of  the  letters  which  were  written  in 
reply  to  those  here  collected. 

There  is  abundant  evidence,  both  in  his  correspon- 
dence with  Boswell  and  elsewhere,  that  Temple  had 

*  '  Reminiscences  of  Gray,'  by  his  intimate  friend  the  Rev.  N. 
Nicholls,  1805  (Mitford's  edition  :  Pickering,  1843). 

f  How  this  occurred  is  explained, post,  pp.  174  et  seq.  "My 
'  Lives  '  are  reprinting,"  writes  Dr.  Johnson  to  Temple,  "and  I  have 
forgotten  the  author  of  Gray's  character ;  write  immediately,  and 
it  may  be  perhaps  yet  inserted."  (August  24th,  1782.) 


xliv 


INTRODUCTION. 


to  endure  no  ordinary  domestic  grievances  and  pro- 
fessional disappointments;  but  it  would  interest  no 
one  to  inquire  into  them  here.*  Like  most  other  men, 
we  shall  find  that  he  had  his  moments  of  ambition, 
but  his  aspiration  after  fame  and  station  died  a  na- 
tural death,  and  he  passed  his  life  in  quiet  privacy. 
He  survived  Boswell  but  a  short  time,  dying  August 
the  8th,  1796. 

*  The  nature  of  Mr.  Temple's  discomforts  may  perhaps  be  ex- 
hibited by  the  following  extract  from  the  correspondence  between 
Mr.  Nicholls  and  Gray  (May  26,  1770) : — "  I  have  just  received  the 
enclosed  from  poor  Temple ;  you  will  see  best  from  his  own  words 
what  he  wants,  and  I  am  sure  you  will  feel  his  situation.  .  .  . 
He  has  no  other  refuge  or  consolation  than  his  books ;  when  his 
mind  is  unbent  from  that  attention,  it  sinks  into  despair.  .  .  . 
What  must  I  say  to  him  about  that  resolution  of  separating,  which 
he  seems  to  speak  of  seriously ;  will  it  pass  off  of  itself,  or  should  I 
dissuade  it  ?  or  what  can  it  mean  ?  Separating  only  from  her  bed  ? 
That  will  be  a  source  of  perpetual  ill-humour  and  misery,  if  not  im- 
possible ;  as  for  any  other  separation,  how  could  he  possibly  afford 
it  ?" — (Letter  from  Nicholls  to  Gray.)  Elsewhere  the  same  writer 
points  out  a  very  likely  source  of  unpleasantness  to  Mr.  Temple; 
he  says,  "  They  [by  which  we  understand  certain  influential  people 
in  his  neighbourhood]  do  not  much  like  Mrs.  Temple  at  Mam- 
head." 

Mr.  Nicholls,  it  would  seem,  applied  to  Gray  to  lend  Temple 
assistance  in  some  literary  speculation.  The  former  writes,  29th 
April,  1771 :  "I  did  not  understand  that  you  were  to  have  the 
trouble  of  forming  a  complete  list  of  authors,  but  of  pointing  out 
a  few  of  the  most  necessary  to  make  the  links  of  the  chain :"  to 
which  Gray  replied  somewhat  tartly,  "  As  if  a  pack  of  books  and 
editions  were  any  cure  for  his  uneasiness  !"  (May  3,  1771.) 

Through  the  influence  of  Lord  Lisburne,  and  after  Temple  had 
been  obliged  to  make  pecuniary  sacrifices  on  account  of  his  father's 
misfortunes,  he  endeavoured  to  obtain  a  chaplaincy  abroad,  but  it 
does  not  appear  that  he  succeeded  in  doing  so. 


BOSWELL'S  FAMILY.  xlv 

The  regard  and  affection  which  existed  between  Bos- 
well  and  Temple  was  real  and  reciprocal,  and,  begin- 
ning at  College,  continued  throughout  their  lives.  The 
following  letters  exhibit  one  amiable  trait  in  particular 
of  Boswell's  character,  viz.  the  tenacity  with  which  he 
maintained  his  feelings  of  attachment  to  the  friend  of 
his  youth.  Sir  William  Forbes,  who  knew  Bos  well, 
has  borne  witness  to  the  same  effect.  "  His  warmth 
of  heart,"  says  he,  "towards  his  friends  was  very 
great."  He  adds,  "  I  have  known  few  men  who  pos- 
sessed a  stronger  sense  of  piety  or  more  fervent  devo- 
tion (tinctured  no  doubt  with  some  little  share  of 
superstition,  which  had  probably  been  in  some  mea- 
sure fostered  by  his  intimacy  with  Dr.  Johnson),  per- 
haps not  always  sufficient  to  regulate  his  imagination 
or  direct  his  conduct ;  yet  still  genuine,  and  founded 
both  in  his  understanding  and  his  heart."* 

James  Boswell  left  two  sons :  the  elder,  Sir  Alex- 
ander Bos  well,  was  killed  in  a  duel  in  the  year  1822. 
This  lamentable  event  arose  out  of  some  miserable 
Scotch  newspaper  squabbles,  the  disgraceful  particulars 
of  which  will  be  found  referred  to  in  Mr.  Lockhart's 
'Life  of  Scott'  and  in  Lord  Cockburn's  'Memoirs/ 
recently  published.  "  He  had  dined,"  says  Mr.  Lock- 
hart,  "  in  Castle  Street  only  two  or  three  days  before 
the  duel  occurred,  and  the  merriest  tones  of  his  voice 
were  still  ringing  in  his  friends'  ears  when  the  fatal 
intelligence  was  received.  That  evening  was,  I  think, 
the  gayest  I  ever  spent  in  Castle  Street ;  and  although 
*  '  Life  of  Dr.  Seattle.' 


xlvi  INTRODUCTION. 

Mr.  Charles  Mathews  was  present,  and  in  his  best  force, 
poor  Boswell's  songs,  jokes,  and  anecdotes  had  exhi- 
bited no  symptoms  of  eclipse.  It  turned  out  that  he 
had  joined  the  party  whom  he  thus  delighted  imme- 
diately after  completing  arrangements  for  his  duel." 
Sir  Alexander  Boswell  was  a  frequent  guest  at  Sir 
Walter  Scott's  social  board.  Mr.  Lockhart  affirms  that 
he  had  "  all  his  father  Bozzy's  cleverness,  good-humour, 
and  joviality,  without  one  touch  of  his  meaner  quali- 
ties ;  he  wrote  '  Jenny  dang  the  Weaver'  and  some 
other  popular  songs,  which  he  sung  capitally,  and 
was  moreover  a  thorough  bibliomaniac."  His  brother, 
James  Boswell,  was  also  a  man  of  excellent  social  qua- 
lities. He  edited  an  elaborate  edition  of  Malone's 
'Shakspeare  (1821),  in  twenty-one  volumes,  in  which 
will  also  be  found  a  graceful  notice  of  Malone,  who 
was  his  excellent  friend  as  well  as  his  father's.  He 
died  suddenly,  within  a  fortnight  of  the  death  of  Sir 
Alexander. 

With  regard  to  the  latter  pages  of  this  volume,  con- 
taining a  few  additional  Letters,  it  may  be  here  men- 
tioned, that  they  chiefly  consist  of  the  Correspondence 
between  Andrew  Erskine  and  Boswell.  For  reasons 
which  have  been  stated  elsewhere,*  and  which  the 
Letters  themselves  present,  it  has  been  thought  that 
it  would  be  interesting  thus  to  append  some  of  them 
to  this  book. 

The  Hon.  Andrew  Erskine  was  a  younger  son  of 
the  Earl  of  Kellie,f  and  held,  as  will  be  seen,  a  com- 

*  Pages  16  and  359.  f  Alexander,  Fifth  Earl  of  Kellie. 


ANDREW    ERSKINE.  xlvii 

mission  in  the  71st  Regiment  of  Foot,  whence  sub- 
sequently he  changed  into  the  24th  Regiment  of 
Foot.  His  mother  was  daughter  of  Dr.  Archibald 
Pitcairn,  the  Jacobite  Physician  and  Poet ;  so  that 
possibly  from  this  source  Captain  Erskine  may  have 
derived  his  literary  tastes.  His  eldest  brother  (after- 
wards Earl  of  Kellie)  was  a  remarkable  musical  genius, 
and  was  probably  preserved  from  permanent  fame  as 
a  composer  by  the  fortune  of  being  a  Peer.*  The 
latter  circumstance  however  did  not  interfere  with  his 
success  as  a  bon  vivant,  a  character  in  which  he  ob- 
tained considerable  renown  in  his  day.  In  this  respect 
he  resembled  his  brother  Andrew.  Had  these  men 
indeed  been  obliged  to  exert  the  talents  with  which 
they  were  endowed,  no  inconsiderable  name  would 
have  been  achieved  ;  but,  situated  as  they  were,  for 
them  to  have  secured  this  would  have  been  probably 
to  make  too  great  a  sacrifice  of  immediate  comforts 
and  pleasures,  which  they  could  always  command. 

Andrew  Erskine  did  not  further  meddle  with  lite- 
rature beyond  publishing  his  'Town  Eclogues,'  and 
amuing  himself  occasionally,  as  it  would  seem,  with 
the  ephemeral  periodicals  of  the  day.  He  died  un- 
married, in  1793. 

Frequent  references  will  be  found  in  the  following 

*  It  is  said  that  this  Nobleman  had  extraordinary  facility  in  com- 
posing. It  was  one  of  his  amusements,  when  he  chanced  to  meet 
an  itinerant  band,  to  retain  their  services,  whilst  he  wrote  off  the 
different  parts  for  the  several  instruments.  These  compositions, 
which  had  the  reputation  of  having  great  merit,  were  however 
rarely  preserved. 


xlvlii  INTRODUCTION. 

pages  to  the  '  Life  of  Johnson.'  The  valuable  editions 
by  Mr.  Croker  are  of  course  those  which  have  been 
used ;  but  as  they  are  numerous,  and  a  new  one  is 
stated  to  be  in  the  press,  it  has  been  thought  better  to 
make  the  references  for  the  most  part  by  dates  instead 
of  pages. 


LETTERS 


JAMES    BOSWELL. 


CHAPTER  I. 

1758-1761. 
BOSWELL'S  EARLY  STYLE  OF  LETTER- WRITIN a. — THE  "  ELEGANCE 

OF  FRIENDSHIP." — ELFRIDA. INTRODUCTION  TO  DAVID  HUME. 

— HIS     CHARACTER. — FALLS    IN    LOVE    WITH    MISS  W T. 

HER   QUALITIES    AND    FORTUNE. — MR.    LOVE,    THE    PLAYER. — 
SIR    DAVID    DALRYMPLE. — CAMBRIDGE. — STUDY    OF    LAW    AT 

EDINBURGH. — DR.    JOHNSON'S    BUMPER    TO    LORD     HAILES. 

BOSWELL    ON    HEIRS    MALE    AND    TREATMENT    OF   DAUGHTERS. 
— JOURNALIZING. 

THE  two  following  letters  were  written  when  Boswell 
was  but  eighteen  years  of  age.  Even  at  this  early 
period  of  his  life  we  see,  strongly  marked,  some  of 
those  qualities  of  mind  which  have  been  referred  to  in 
the  preceding  pages;  such,  for  instance,  as  his  fond- 
ness for  the  society  of  celebrated  persons,  his  facility 
for  fancying  himself  in  love,  and  the  entirely  erroneous 
conception  he  had  of  his  own  character. 

These  two  letters  afford  a  fair  specimen  of  the  style 
of  correspondence  current  at  that  time  among  young 
men  of  his  class. 

B 


2  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

1 .]  Edinburgh,  2  9  th  July,  1 7  5  8 . 

Dear  Sir, 

Your  very  obliging  letter  came  safe  to  hand  two 
days  ago.  I  spoke  to  my  father  again  about  my  going 
to  Berwick ;  but  as  he  still  disapproved  of  it,  and  as  he 
has  been  so  kind  as  to  promise  to  take  me  the  North 
Circuit  with  him,  I  really  could  not  insist  upon  it,  so 
you  must  excuse  me  from  having  the  pleasure  of  wait- 
ing upon  you  this  season.  What  my  Lord  said  was 
very  just,  that  it  was  not  long  since  we  saw  one  another 
(not  long  indeed  in  the  eye  of  the  world,  but  to  faithful 
friends  a  tedious  absence),  and  that  our  being  separated 
for  some  time  would  greatly  enhance  the  happiness  of 
our  meeting ;  besides,  as  I  would  be  hurried  just  now, 
it  would  not  be  so  agreeable,  and  I  might  be  in  some 
danger  of  being  the  worse  for  it,  which  would  be  very 
unlucky ;  so  that  really  when  I  impartially  weigh  all 
circumstances,  I  begin  to  be  convinced  that  it  is  better 
to  delay  it  till  another  year,  when  I  hope  to  have  the 
pleasure  of  making  a  deliberate  visit,  when  we  can  en- 
joy all  the  elegance  of  friendship,  talk  over  our  several 
studies,  and  take  an  agreeable  jaunt  through  North- 
umberland. 

I  congratulate  you  on  the  entertainment  you  re- 
ceived from  the  two  performances  you  mention. 
'  Elfrida  '*  I  have  seen,  but  never  read  it ;  however  I 

*  This  Play  was  written  by  Mason,  the  biographer  of  Gray.  It 
was  brought  out  with  the  music  of  Arne.  Dr.  Johnson  summed 
up  its  merits  thus  :  "  There  are  now  and  then  some  good  imitations 
of  Milton's  bad  manner." 


ME.  HUME.  O 

intend  to  have  it  on  your  recommendation.  I  will 
not  compliment  you  on  your  exact  judgement  and 
nice  discernment,  but  only  say,  as  we  have  pretty  much 
a  similarity  of  taste,  what  pleases  you  must  likeways 
please  me.  That  on  the  Spleen  (if  done  with  spirit) 
will  be  very  entertaining.  I  suppose  by  this  time  you 
are  returned  from  your  expedition  to  the  Newcastle 
Assizes.  I  hope  you  have  been  well  entertained,  and 
are  the  better  for  the  ride. 

Some  days  ago  I  was  introduced  to  your  friend  Mr. 
Hume ;  he  is  a  most  discreet,  affable  man  as  ever  I 
met  with,  and  has  really  a  great  deal  of  learning,  and 
a  choice  collection  of  books.  He  is  indeed  an  extra- 
ordinary man, — few  such  people  are  to  be  met  with 
nowadays.  We  talk  a  great  deal  of  genius,  fine  lan- 
guage, improving  our  style,  etc.,  but  I  am  afraid  solid 
learning  is  much  wore  out.  Mr.  Hume,  I  think,  is  a 
very  proper  person  for  a  young  man  to  cultivate  an  ac- 
quaintance with.  Though  he  has  not  perhaps  the  most 
delicate  taste,  yet  he  has  applied  himself  with  great 
attention  to  the  study  of  the  ancients,  and  is  likewise 
a  great  historian,  so  that  you  are  not  only  entertained 
in  his  company,  but  may  reap  a  great  deal  of  useful 
instruction.  I  own  myself  much  obliged  to  you,  dear 
Sir,  for  procuring  me  the  pleasure  of  his  acquaintance. 

Rapin  goes  on  with  me  apace.  I  continue,  thank 
God,  in  pretty  good  health  and  spirits. 

You  know  I  gave  you  a  hint  in  my  last  of  the  con- 
tinuance of  my  passion  for  Miss  W 1.*  I  assure 

*  The  name  of  this  young  lady  has  escaped  through  Boswell's 

B  2 


4  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

you  I  am  excessively  fond  of  her,  so  (as  I  have  given 
you  fair  warning)  don't  be  surprised  if  your  grave, 
sedate,  philosophic  friend,  who  used  to  carry  it  so 
high,  and  talk  with  such  a  composed  indifference  of 
the  beauteous  sex,  and  whom  you  used  to  admonish 
not  to  turn  an  old  man  too  soon, — don't  be  thunder- 
struck if  this  same  fellow  should  all  at  once,  subito 
furore  obreptus,  commence  Don  Quixote  for  his  ador- 
able Dulcinea.  But  to  talk  seriously,  I  at  first  fell 
violently  in  love  with  her,  and  thought  I  should  be 
quite  miserable  if  I  did  not  obtain  her ;  but  now  it  is 
changed  to  a  rational  esteem  of  her  good  qualities,  so 
that  I  should  be  extremely  happy  to  pass  my  life  with 
her ;  but  if  she  does  not  incline  to  it,  I  can  bear  it  cequo 
animo,  and  retire  into  the  calm  regions  of  philosophy. 
She  is  indeed  extremely  pretty,  and  possessed  of  every 
amiable  qualification;  she  dances,  sings,  and  plays 
upon  several  instruments  equally  weh1,  draws  with  a 
great  deal  of  taste,  and  reads  the  best  authors ;  at  the 
same  time  she  has  a  just  regard  for  true  piety  and 
religion,  and  behaves  in  the  most  easy,  affable  way. 
She  is  just  such  a  young  lady  as  I  could  wish  for  the 
partner  of  my  soul ;  and  you  know  that  is  not  every 
one;  for  you  and  I  have  often  talked  how  nice  we 
would  be  in  such  a  choice.  I  own  I  can  have  but  little 
hopes,  as  she  is  a  fortune  of  thirty  thousand  pounds. 
Heaven  knows  that  sordid  motive  is  farthest  from  my 

prudence  in  thus  writing  it.  The  loss  is  quite  immaterial,  especially 
as  his  "passion"  subsided,  very  naturally,  and  she  is  not  heard  of 
again  beyond  the  present  Chapter. 


FALLING    IN    LOVE.  5 

thoughts.  She  invited  me  to  come  and  wait  upon 
her,  so  I  went  last  week  and  drank  tea.  I  was  kindly 
entertained,  and  desired  to  come  when  convenient. 
I  have  reason  to  believe  she  has  a  very  good  opinion 
of  me :  and,  indeed,  a  youth  of  my  turn  has  a  better 
chance  to  gain  the  affections  of  a  lady  of  her  character 
than  of  any  other ;  but  (as  I  told  you  before)  my  mind 
is  in  such  an  agreeable  situation,  that  being  refused 
would  not  be  so  fatal  as  to  drive  me  to  despair,  as 
your  hot-brained  romantic  lovers  talk.  Now,  my  dear 
friend,  I  sincerely  ask  ten  thousand  pardons  for  giving 
you  the  trouble  of  this  long  narration ;  but  as  it  is  a 
thing  that  concerns  me  a  good  deal,  I  could  not  but 
communicate  it  to  you,  and  I  know,  when  I  inform 
you  how  happy  it  makes  me  to  open  my  mind,  you 
will  forgive  me.  Pray  never  speak  of  it :  you  are  the 
only  person  knows  of  it,  except  Mr.  Love,*  who  reads 
with  her,  and  takes  every  unsuspected  method  to  lend 
me  his  friendly  assistance.  Oh,  Willie !  how  happy 
should  I  be  if  she  consented,  some  years  after  this,  to 
make  me  blest !  How  transporting  to  think  of  such 
a  lady  to  entertain  you  at  Auchinleck !  However  I  am 

*  This,  we  may  presume,  was  "  Mr.  Love,  of  Drury  Lane  Thea- 
tre," and  once  "  a  player  at  Edinburgh,"  a  gentleman  with  whom 
Boswell  himself  had  studied,  in  order  to  purify  his  pronunciation 
from  the  Scotch  accent.  Johnson,  it  will  be  remembered,  when 
Boswell  referred  to  this  training  of  his  dialect,  condescended  to  re- 
ply, "  Sir,  your  pronunciation  is  not  offensive,"  with  which  conces- 
sion Boswell  says  he  "  was  pretty  well  satisfied.'^  (Boswell's  John- 
son, March,  1772.)  The  envoy  thus  curiously  selected  by  Boswell 
was  also  manager  of  the  Edinburgh  Theatre  at  one  time,  as  well  as 
an  actor  and  small  dramatic  author. 


O  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

afraid  you  may  too  justly  retort  upon  me  Horace's 
advice  to  his  friend, — 

"  Eectius  vives,  Licini,  neque  altum 
Nimis  urgendo." 

You  must  know  I  am  vastly  happy  with  the  thoughts 
of  the  North  Circuit ;  my  worthy  Maecenas,  Sir  David 
Dalrymple,  goes  as  Advocate  Depute;  there  I  will 
enjoy  the  happiness  of  his  agreeable  and  improving 
conversation,  and  see  the  country  with  a  double  relish 
in  such  refined  company.  Pray  write  me  on  the  5th, 
which  I  will  take  as  a  particular  favour,  for  we  go  to 
Auchinleck  the  week  after  next,  and  set  out  for  the 
north  soon  after,  so  that  our  correspondence  will  be 
interrupted  for  some  time.  Let  me  know  what  your 
motions  are  intended  to  be,  and  whether  or  not  you 
are  going  to  Cambridge.  Lord  Auchinleck  and  my 
mother  return  their  compliments. 

Your  affectionate  friend, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


2.]  Edinburgh,  16$  Dec.,  1758. 

My  dear  Sir, 

Your  very  kind  and  obliging  letter  gave  me  the 
greatest  pleasure ;  and  the  more  so  as  I  have  not  been 
so  happy  as  to  hear  from  you  for  some  time.  The 
warm  professions  you  make  of  the  continuance  of  your 
friendship  for  me  made  me  almost  weep  with  joy,  as 
I  know  them  to  be  the  genuine  sentiments  of  your 
heart :  even  the  compliments  you  are  pleased  to  pay 
me  I  believe  sincere. 


FRIENDSHIP.  / 

Surely  you  could  not  be  in  earnest  to  entertain  the 
least  suspicion  that  your  not  writing  should  have 
offended  me ;  no,  my  dear  Sir,  I  am  happily  free  of  a 
jealous  temper,  and  could  form  numberless  excuses  for 
the  omission.  It  would  be  needless  for  me  to  de- 
scribe what  I  have  felt  in  absence  from  my  better 
part ;  your  beautiful  and  moving  letter  speaks  my  in- 
most thoughts.  May  indulgent  Heaven  grant  a  con- 
tinuance of  our  friendship  !  As  our  minds  improve  in 
knowledge,  may  the  sacred  flame  still  increase,  until 
at  last  we  reach  the  glorious  world  above,  when  we 
shall  never  be  separated,  but  enjoy  an  everlasting  so- 
ciety of  bliss !  Such  thoughts  as  these  employ  my 
happy  moments,  and  make  me 

"  Peel  a  secret  joy 
Spring  o'er  my  heart,  beyond  the  pride  of  kings." 

I  sympathize  with  you  in  the  want  of  agreeable  com- 
panions, as  it  is  pretty  much  my  own  case.  Poor 
Hamilton  wrote  me  lately ;  he  is  still  bad,  but  hopes 
to  be  soon  here.  Hepbairn  has  been  confined  for 
some  days,  but  is  almost  well  again.  Both  these  are 
very  pretty  young  gentlemen ;  but  at  the  same  time 
there  is  all  the  odds  in  the  world  between  a  compa- 
nion and  a  friend  to  whom  one  can  disclose  every 
tender  sentiment.  I  dare  say  it  gives  you  much  un- 
easiness to  be  amongst  so  profligate  a  set.  I  hope,  by 
Divine  assistance,  you  shall  still  preserve  your  amiable 
character  amidst  all  the  deceitful  blandishments  of 
vice  and  folly.  I  envy  your  happiness  in  being  with 


8  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

the  much-admired  gentleman  you  mention.  The  time 
seems  to  pass  very  agreeably  at  Cambridge. 

I  can  assure  you  the  study  of  the  law  here  is  a  most 
laborious  task.  In  return  for  yours  I  shall  give  you 
an  account  of  my  studies.  From  nine  to  ten  I  attend 
the  law-class ;  from  ten  to  eleven  study  at  home ;  and 
from  one  to  two  attend  a  College  upon  Roman  Anti- 
quities; the  afternoon  and  evening  I  likeways  spend 
in  study :  I  never  walk  except  on  Saturdays. 

During  the  vacancy,  in  harvest,  I  went  along  with 
my  father  to  the  Northern  Circuit,  and  was  so  happy 
as  to  be  in  the  same  chaise  as  Sir  David  Dalrymple  the 
whole  way.  I  kept  an  exact  journal,  at  the  particular 
desire  of  my  Mend  Mr.  Love,  and  sent  it  to  him  in 
sheets  every  post.  He  is  really  a  man  who,  I  must 
say,  is  my  second-best  friend.  He  has  not  only  taste, 
genius,  and  learning,  but  a  good  heart,  and  thus 
prettily  speaks  in  one  of  his  poems  : — 

"  Virtue  and  happiness  unite  in  one, 
As  light  and  heat  both  centre  in  the  sun." 

The  poem  you  have  obliged  me  with  is  very  pretty ; 
if  it  is  done  by  an  acquaintance,  you  are  happy  in 
knowing  him,  but  I  should  imagine  it  the  production 
of  my  friend  :  pray  let  me  know  if  it  is.  To  encourage 
you,  I  have  enclosed  a  few  trifles  of  my  own.  One  of 
the  Epigrams  is  a  true  story  of  Major  Cochran  (now 
Earl  of  Dundonald)  and  Mr.  Webster,  but  this  I  tell 
you  inter  nos.  I  have  published  now  and  then  the 
production  of  a  leisure  hour  in  the  magazines.  If  any 


LORD    HAILES.  9 

of  these  Essays  can  give  entertainment  to  my  friend,  I 
shall  be  extremely  happy. 

My  father  and  mother  return  your  compliments  in 
the  best  manner,  and  retain  a  just  esteem  for  you. 

Your  most  sincere  and  affectionate  friend, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


Sir  David  Dalrymple  mentioned  above  was  appointed 
one  of  the  Judges  of  Scotland  in  1776,  under  the  title 
of  Lord  Hailes.  Bos  well  always  expresses  great  affec- 
tion and  regard  for  him,  and  his  name  is  frequently 
introduced  into  the  '  Life  of  Johnson.'  It  occurs  there 
chiefly  through  the  officiousness  of  Boswell,  who  de- 
lighted to  set  his  acquaintance  upon  writing  or  talk- 
ing of  each  other.  Dr.  Johnson,  for  instance,  is  made 
on  one  occasion  to  do  honour  to  trie  Judge  by  drink- 
ing a  bumper  to  him,  "  as  a  man  of  worth,  a  scholar, 
and  a  wit."  "  I  have,  however,"  continued  he  to  Bos- 
well,  "  never  heard  of  him  except  from  you ;  but  let 
him  know  my  opinion  of  him,  for,  as  he  does  not  show 
himself  much  in  the  world,  he  should  have  the  praise 
of  the  few  who  hear  of  him."  Boswell  indeed  takes 
upon  himself  to  affirm  that  Lord  Hailes  was  "  one  of 
the  best  philologists  in  Great  Britain,  who  has  written 
papers  in  the  '  World/  and  a  variety  of  other  works  in 
prose  and  English."  What  struck  Boswell,  however, 
as  convincing  evidence  of  his  Lordship's  "  wonderful 
acumen"  would  not  be  the  proof  which  perhaps  other 
people  might  consider  conclusive  on  the  subject.  It 


10  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

occurred  on  occasion  of  the  Judge's  "  pointing  out 
exactly,"  in  an  argument  presented  by  Bos  well  to  the 
Court  of  Session,  of  which  Dr.  Johnson  had  contri- 
buted a  portion,  what  part  had  emanated  from  the 
Doctor's  pen,  and  what  was  the  lawyer's  own  pro- 
duction. 

When  Boswell's  mind,  many  years  after  the  date  of 
the  above  letter,  was  troubled  about  settling  his  family 
estate,  which  he  wished  to  entail  on  his  heirs  male,  Dr. 
Johnson  recommended  him  to  tell  his  "whole  mind" 
to  Lord  Hailes.*  "  He  is,  you  know,  both  a  Christian 
and  a  lawyer;  I  suppose  he  is  above  partiality  and 
above  loquacity."  Boswell  acted  on  this  advice,  and  his 
Lordship  "  obligingly  took  the  trouble  to  write  "  on  the 
interesting  topic,  and  gave  his  judgment  against  Bos- 
well's  view ;  but  notwithstanding  his  deep  respect  for 
the  learned  Judge*  his  "  partiality  for  male  succession 
in  its  full  extent  remained  unshaken."  He  adds  how- 
ever the  following  generous  and  touching  sentiment : — 
"  Let  me  not  be  thought  harsh  or  unkind  to  daugh- 
ters, for  my  notion  is  that  they  should  be  treated  with 
affection  and  tenderness,  and  always  participate  of  the 
property  of  the  family" 

It  will  be  noted  too  that  Boswell  had  already  begun 
to  keep  an  exact  journal.  Thus,  doubtless,  on  the 
journey  of  the  Circuit  Sir  David  Dalrymple  was  un- 
consciously affording  to  the  biographer  of  Johnson  an 
opportunity  of  practising  the  art  which  he  used  to  such 
perfection  at  a  subsequent  period. 

*  Letter  to  Boswell,  Jan.  15,  1776. 


JOURNALIZING.  11 

The  epigram  referred  to  at  the  close  of  the  letter 
"  as  a  true  story  of  Major  Cochran,"  is  lost,  although 
it  may  possibly  have  been  founded  on  the  anecdote 
mentioned  by  Boswell  in  the  '  Life  of  Johnson '  as  a 
"little  story  of  my  early  years,  which  was  literally 
true,",  and  which  the  Doctor  used  thus  to  tell : — 
"Boswell,  in  the  year  1745,  was  a  fine  boy,  wore 
a  white  cockade,  and  prayed  for  King  James,  till  one 
of  his  uncles  (General  Cochran)  gave  him  a  shilling 
on  condition  that  he  would  pray  for  King  George, 
which  he  accordingly  did.  So  you  see,"  adds  Boswell, 
"  that  Whigs  of  ah1  ages  are  made  the  same  way." 


CHAPTER   II. 

1761-1763. 

ATTRACTIONS    OF     LONDON. — BOSWELL's    TASTE    FOR    THE    ARMY. 

— DISTASTE    FOR    FIGHTING. — DISGUST     FOR    SCOTLAND. HIS 

FEMALE   FRIENDS. — HIS    POEM,    'THE    CLUB    AT   NEWMARKET.' 
— CORRESPONDENCE    WITH    THE    HON.  ANDREW   ERSKJNE. 

NOTWITHSTANDING  the  ardent  determination  expressed 
three  years  before  to  prosecute  this  correspondence 
assiduously,  it  seems  to  have  flagged  ;  or  if  there  were 
occasional  letters  written  during  the  interval,  their 
real  value  may  have  been  duly  estimated,  and  they 
were  accordingly  destroyed,  or  may  have  been  acciden- 
tally lost. 

The  following  letter,  written  in  the  spring  of  1761, 
contains  the  oft-repeated  assertion,  so  familiar  to  all 
readers  of  the  great  biography,  "  that  Boswell's  hap- 
piness was  always  centred  in  London."  He  had 
visited  the  Metropolis  the  previous  year,  and  there, 
it  would  seem,  became  imbued  "  with  the  most  gay 
ideas,"  which  he  thus  enumerates: — "getting  into 
the  Guards,  being  about  Court,  enjoying  the  happi- 
ness of  the  bean  monde  and  the  company  of  men  of 
genius."  With  respect  to  getting  into  the  Guards, 


TASTE    FOR   THE    ARMY.  13 

although  Boswell  was  anxious  to  enter  the  array  at 
this  period,  it  was  that  he  might  strut  in  scarlet  and 
gold  and  enjoy  convivial  life  and  congenial  society, 
rather  than  that  he  might  mingle  in  bloody  war.  He 
informs  us  indeed  frankly,  in  his  letter  to  the  people 
of  Scotland  (1785),  that  he  "  is  not  blest  with  high  he- 
roick  blood,  but  rather  I  think  troubled  with  a  natural 
timidity  of  personal  danger,  which  it  costs  me  some 
philosophy  to  overcome."  But  he  adds,  "  I  am  per- 
suaded I  have  so  much  real  patriotism  in  my  breast 
that  I  should  not  hesitate  to  draw  my  sword  in  your 
defence." 

His  martial  aspirations  however  were  relinquished, 
to  the  great  satisfaction  of  his  father,  whose  judgment 
indeed  in  this  matter  received  corroboration  from  an- 
other source;  for  Boswell  narrates  that,  having  been 
presented  in  the  year  1760  to  the  Duke  of  Argyle,  his 
Grace  was  much  pleased  with  him,  and  "  taking  his 
father  aside,  said, '  My  Lord,  I  like  your  son ;  this  boy 
must  not  be  shot  at  for  three-and-sixpence  a  day.'  "* 


3.]  Edinburgh,  1st  May,  1761. 

My  dear  Temple, 

I  was  favoured  with  yours  some  posts  ago ;  I  hope 
you  received  mine :  they  were  written,  it  seems,  on  the 
same  day. 

It  gave  me  infinite  pleasure  to  find  that  you  con- 
tinue to  regard  me,  and  have  still  got  as  warm  a  con- 

*  Boswelliana,  in  Philobiblion,  vol.  ii. 


14  LETTERS    OF    BOS  WELL. 

cern  for  my  interest  as  ever ;  but  oh,  my  friend !  how 
could  you  imagine  that  my  esteem  for  you  was  in  the 
smallest  degree  abated !  Can  you  suppose  my  taste 
to  be  so  depraved,  my  mind  so  degenerated,  as  not  to 
love  and  respect  so  worthy  an  object !  Indeed,  my 
dear  Temple,  you  wrong  me ;  you  are,  and  ever  shall 
be,  dear  to  Boswell,  who  reckons  himself  highly  ho- 
noured by  an  intimacy  with  Mr.  Temple,  and,  while 
he  comforts  himself  with  that,  can  calmly  smile  at  the 
attacks  of  envy  or  of  malevolence.  I  find  that  you 
have  had  a  very  disagreeable  account  of  my  conduct 
for  some  time  by  post.  I  flatter  myself  that  the  apo- 
logetic epistle,  which  I  wrote  you  lately,  may  have  put 
matters  in  a  more  favourable  light.  I  grant  you  that 
my  behaviour  has  not  been  entirely  as  it  ought  to  be. 
A  young  fellow  whose  happiness  was  always  centred 
in  London,  who  had  at  least  got  there,  and  had  be- 
gun to  taste  its  delights,  who  had  got  his  mind  filled 
with  the  most  gay  ideas, — getting  into  the  Guards, 
being  about  Court,  enjoying  the  happiness  of  the  beau 
monde  and  the  company  of  men  of  genius,  in  short 
everything  that  he  could  wish, — consider  this  poor 
fellow  hauled  away  to  the  town  of  Edinburgh,  obliged 
to  conform  to  every  Scotch  custom  or  be  laughed  at, 
— "Will  you  hae  some  jeel?  oh  fie!  oh  fie!" — his 
flighty  imagination  quite  cramped,  and  he  obliged  to 
study  Corpus  Juris  Civilis,  and  live  in  his  father's 
strict  family ;  is  there  any  wonder,  Sir,  that  the  un- 
lucky dog  should  be  somewhat  fretful  ?  Yoke  a  New- 
market courser  to  a  dung-cart,  and  I  '11  lay  my  life 


'THE  CLUB  AT  NEWMARKET.'  15 

on't  he'll  either  caper  and  kick  most  confoundedly,  or 
be  as  stupid  and  restive  as  an  old,  battered  posthorse. 
Not  one  in  a  hundred  can  understand  this ;  you  do. 

Your  insinuation  about  my  being  indelicate  in  the 
choice  of  my  female  friends,  I  must  own,  surprises 
me  a  good  deal.  Pray,  what  is  the  meaning  of  it?* 
*  *  *  If  there  is  anything  more  serious  couched 
under  your  admonition,  please  to  inform  me ;  I  will 
surely  clear  it  up.  I  have  sent  you  an  epistle,  which 
indolence  has  at  length  permitted  me  to  finish.  You 
may  see  by  the  date  when  it  was  begun.  Write  me 

soon,  and  believe  me  ever  yours, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


The  close  of  the  next  year  (1762)  saw  Boswell  again 
in  his  dear  London,  where  Mr.  Temple  and  he  had 
probably  frequent  opportunities  of  meeting ;  and  when, 
shortly  afterwards,  the  latter  was  obliged  to  leave  the 
Metropolis  for  Cambridge,  he  lent  Boswell  his  cham- 
bers at  Farrar's  Buildings,  in  the  Temple. 

Boswell  published,  in  1762,  a  little  poem, '  The  Club 
at  Newmarket.'  It  does  not  seem  to  have  had  any 
great  success,  though  probably  all  it  merited;  and 
indeed,  having  chronicled  the  fact  of  the  publication 
of  the  poem,  it  should  be  added,  perhaps,  that  its 
perusal  will  not  repay  any  one,  unless  he  may  desire 
to  satisfy  a  special  curiosity  as  to  what  some  persons 

*  The  writer  here  enters  upon  detailed,  but  not  very  satisfactory 
extenuations  of  his  conduct,  into  which  it  is  not  at  all  desirable  to 
follow  him. 


16  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

could  write  and  others  could  read,  under  the  name  of 
poetry,  in  the  middle  of  the  last  century. 

Boswell  was  also  carrying  on  a  "  humorous  "  corre- 
spondence with  the  Honourable  Andrew  Erskine,  which 
was  published  in  1763.  These  letters  are  very  charac- 
teristic of  Boswell,  as  well  as  illustrative  of  the  tone 
affected  in  the  society  in  which  he  at  this  time  mingled. 
It  is  not  so  curious  that  such  a  series  of  letters,  chiefly 
dedicated  to  personal  banter,  should  have  passed  be- 
tween two  young  associates,  as  that  the  writers  should 
have  allowed  them  to  be  given  to  the  world.  We  may 
perhaps  attribute  their  publication  to  Bos  well's  passion 
for  notoriety  at  any  cost.  Rather  than  live  unnoticed 
in  society,  he  would  incur  its  ridicule.  It  is  clear  in- 
deed that  he  infinitely  preferred  being  the  object  even 
of  bitter  contumely  and  satire  to  dwelling  in  the  quiet 
of  obscurity. 

Some  of  the  Erskine  correspondence  will  be  found 
at  the  end  of  this  volume.  It  may  serve  to  illustrate 
in  some  degree  the  mode  of  thought  and  the  epistolary 
style  adopted  by  young  and  gay  litterateurs  a  century 
since. 


17 


CHAPTER  III. 

1763. 

MAKES  THE  ACQUAINTANCE  OF  DR.  JOHNSON. — CHARACTER  OF  A 

TRUE  FRIEND. MR.  DEMPSTER. CRITICISM. SUPPER  WITH 

MR.  JOHNSON. — BOSWELL'S  NEW  PLAN  OF  LIFE. — THE  PEN- 
SIVE GRAY  AND  THE  APOTHECARY  GRAY. BOB  TEMPLE. 

JOHNSON  ON  THE  ART  OF  STUDY. — BOSWELL  ON  THE  ADVAN- 
TAGES OF  ADVERSITY. DR.  JOHNSON'S  ROOMS  IN  THE  TEMPLE. 

—  SUPPER  AT  THE  TURK'S  HEAD. PREPARATION  FOR  TRAVEL. 

DR.  JOHNSON  ACCOMPANIES  HIM  TO  HARWICH. WRITES 

HIM  A  LETTER  OF  PRECEPTS. 

THE  year  1763  was  to  Boswell  a  memorable  one; 
"  for  in  it,"  says  he,*  "  I  had  the  happiness  to  obtain 
the  acquaintance  of  that  extraordinary  man  whose 
Memoirs  I  am  now  writing, — an  acquaintance  which 
I  shall  ever  esteem  as  one  of  the  most  fortunate  cir- 
cumstances in  my  life."  The  amusing  account  of  his 
first  meeting  with  Dr.  Johnson,  "  on  Monday,  the  16th 
of  May,  when  I  was  sitting  in  Mr.  Davies's  back  par- 
lour, after  I  had  drunk  tea  with  him  and  Mrs.  Davies," 
is  one  of  those  graphic  accounts  which  will  be  found 
nowhere  but  in  Boswell's  wonderful  work.  The  nar- 

*  '  Life  of  Johnsoii,'  anno  1763. 


18  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

rative  tells  us  the  whole  story,  however  much  to  his 
disadvantage :  how  he  was  snubbed  in  all  ways ;  how 
he  was  "  stunned"  by  the  Doctor's  reply  to  his  "  light 
pleasantry"  as  to  "  coming  from  Scotland,"  but  not 
being  able  to  help  it ;  how  this  "  light  pleasantry,"  he 
is  willing  to  flatter  himself,  was  "meant  to  soothe 
and  conciliate"  the  great  object  of  his  admiration,  and 
"not  as  a  humiliating  abasement  at  the  expense  of 
my  country ;"  how,  being  "  eager  to  take  any  opening 
to  get  into  conversation  with  him,  I  ventured  to  say, 
'  Oh,  Sir,  I  cannot  think  Mr.  Garrick  would  grudge 
such  a  trifle  to  you'"  (an  order  to  the  Play) ;  how  he 
was  forthwith  crushed  by  the  prompt  retort,  "  I  know 
no  right  you  have  to  talk  to  me  on  the  subject ; "  how, 
feeling  somewhat  mortified,  he  yet  "  remained  on  the 
field,  not  wholly  discomfited,"  and  succeeded  in  pick- 
ing up  a  page  or  two  of  the  Doctor's  talk ;  how  gladly 
he  gave  credit  to  the  wag  Davies,  the  bookseller,  when 
told  by  him,  "  Don't  be  uneasy,  I  can  see  Mr.  Johnson 
likes  you  very  well ; "  and  how,  gathering  up  courage 
enough  in  a  few  days  to  call  on  the  "giant  in  his 
den,"  he  is  courteously  received,  and  forthwith  sticks 
resolutely  by  him  (except  when  drawn  off  by  some 
other  passion)  for  the  rest  of  the  great  man's  life, 
that  he  may  recount  it.  He  however  finds  time  still 
to  write  to  his  friend.  The  next  letter  is  dated  from 
Temple's  chambers,  which  Boswell  says  he  found  very 
convenient  on  account  of  their  contiguity  to  Dr.  John- 
son's. 


TRUE    FRIENDSHIP.  19 

4.]  Inner  Temple,  \Ztk  July,  1763. 

My  dear  Temple, 

Your  very  kind  letter  did  me  much  good.     I  stood 
in  need  of  it,  I  assure  you.     Tor  the  want  of  your 
conversation,  and  the  want  of  one  who  could  patiently 
hear  mine,  is  no  small  want.    I  can  indeed  get  people- 
enough  who  are  fond  of  my  conversation  when  I  am 
cheerful  and  lively  and  can  contribute  to  their  mirth ; 
but  nobody  but  a  sincere  friend  can  listen  to  my  com- 
plaints when   oppressed  with   melancholy.      A  true 
friend  differs  much  from  a  companion.     The  latter 
loves  some  particular  qualities  which  one  has :   the 
former  loves  the  man  himself, — loves  him  when  gay  and 
loves  him  when  dejected.    Such  a  friend,  my  dear  Sir, 
I  have  the  comfort  to  possess  in  you.    Our  friendship 
is  now  firmly  established.    By  long  separation  we  had 
a  severe  trial.     Had  not  our  regard  been  very  well 
rooted,  it  might  have  died  away,  and  other  plants  have 
sprung  up  in  its  place ;  but  I  thank  Heaven  that  by 
our  last  meeting  for  some  months  in  London,  we  have 
happily  seen  that  we  love  each  other  as  much  as  ever. 
I  am  now  secure :  I  dread  not  its  continuance  while 
we  live,  and  I  will  not  quit  the  hope  of  its  lasting 
longer  than  this  existence.     I  should  have  written  to 
you  before  today,  but  have  had  a  languor  and  absence 
of  ideas ;  even  now  T  am  at  a  loss  for  a  few  sentences. 
I  have  given  you  the  feelings  of  my  heart,  and  I  can 
find  no  help  from  my  head.     To  atone  for  this,  I  send 
you  my  journal  of  last  autumn,  which  may  perhaps 
amuse  you  a  little :  you  will  laugh  at  my  whim,  and 

c  2 


20  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

be  sorry  for  my  weakness.  I  insist  on  your  showing 
it  to  nobody,  and  I  beg  that  you  may  return  it  when 
you  have  read  it.  It  may  be  sent  in  parcels,  enclosed 
to  "  George  Dempster,  Esq.,  Member  of  Parliament, 
Manchester  Buildings,  Westminster."  I  have  finished 
Hume's  History.  Bob  is  well  and  offers  compliments. 
Claxton  supped  with  us  last  night ;  I  really  like  him 
much.  I  shall  soon  make  you  a  better  answer  to  your 
last. 

I  ever  am  your  most  sincere  friend, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


Mr.  Dempster  here  mentioned  was,  it  will  be  re- 
membered, the  gentleman  who,  according  to  Boswell, 
was  so  struck  "  with  the  imperfect  account  I  gave  him 
of  Dr.  Johnson's  conversation  that,  to  his  honour  be 
it  recorded,  when  I  complained  that  drinking  port  and 
sitting  up  late  with  him  affected  my  nerves  for  some 
time  after,  he  said,  '  One  had  better  be  palsied  at  eigh- 
teen than  not  keep  company  with  such  a  man.' '  He 
was  confederated  about  this  time  with  the  Honour- 
able Andrew  Erskine  and  Boswell  in  writing  a  pam- 
phlet in  abuse  of  the  tragedy  of  '  Elvira,'  by  Mallet. 
Both  pamphlet  and  tragedy  are  gone  whither  many 
such  productions  have  gone,  and  still  will  go ;  but, 
having  been  the  occasion  of  a  remark  by  Dr.  Johnson, 
reported  by  Boswell,  the  fact  of  their  existence  happens 
to  be  preserved  by  this  circumstance.  The  remark  was 
to  the  effect  that  a  man  has  a  clear  right  to  criticize  a 


RIGHTS    OF    CRITICISM.  21 

work  though  he  could  not  himself  have  produced  it.  It 
has  been  said  also  by  some  one  else,  when  rebuked  in 
like  manner  for  condemning  a  book  which,  it  was  al- 
leged, he  could  not  have  written  as  well,  "  But  I  could 
have  done  better ;  I  could  have  left  it  alone"  In  this 
case  Dempster,  it  would  seem,  according  to  the  Bos- 
wellian  narrative,  had  relented  with  respect  to  the 
part  he  played  in  writing  these  "critical  strictures," 
and,  having  some  qualms  of  conscience,  candidly  said, 
"  We  have  hardly  a  right  to  abuse  this  tragedy,  for, 
bad  as  it  is,  how  vain  would  either  of  us  be  to  write  one 
not  near  so  good !"  Johnson :  "  Why  no,  Sir ;  this  is 
not  just  reasoning.  You  may  abuse  a  tragedy,  though 
you  cannot  make  one.  You  may  scold  a  carpenter 
who  has  made  you  a  bad  table,  though  you  cannot 
make  a  table  :  it  is  not  your  trade  to  make  tables." 

In  the  following  letter  will  be  found  Boswell's  an- 
nouncement to  his  friend  that  he  had  "  the  honour  of 
supping  tete-a-tete  with  Mr.  Johnson."  This  supper, 
with  the  conversation  which  took  place  during  the  re- 
past, will  be  found  in  its  proper  place  in  the  *  Life  of 
Johnson.'  The  supper  was  at  the  '  Mitre,'  and  Bos- 
well  says,  "  It  happening  to  be  a  very  rainy  night,  I 
made  some  commonplace  observations  on  the  relaxation 
of  nerves  and  depression  of  spirits  which  such  weather 
occasioned,  adding,  however,  that  it  was  good  for  the 
vegetable  creation."'  The  remark  is  perhaps  a  very 

*  '  Life  of  Johnson  :'  see  also  on  the  26th  of  July,  when  Boswell 
again  fell  upon  the  weather  and  the  Doctor  again  fell  upon  him 
for  so  doing. 


22  LETTER^    OF    BOS  WELL. 

good  sample  of  Bos  well's  share  in  his  dialogues  with 
Johnson ;  and  it  will  be  a  never-ceasing  source  of  won- 
der how  a  man  who,  according  to  his  own  account, 
rarely  speaks  anything  but  what  is  more  or  less  weak, 
commonplace,  and  foolish,  could  understand,  remem- 
ber, and  record  the  eloquence  and  wisdom  of  others. 

We  find  Boswell  now  writing  to  his  friend  about 
the  "plan  of  life"  which,  for  a  time,  was  to  separate 
him  from  the  beloved  London  and  the  beworshipped 
Doctor.  The  plan  of  life  was  "  a  resolution  of  some 
importance  to  him."  "  I  had,"  says  he  elsewhere,  "  in 
compliance  with  my  father's  wishes,  agreed  to  study 
the  Law,  and  was  soon  to  set  out  for  Utrecht  to  hear 
the  lectures  of  an  excellent  civilian  in  that  University, 
and  then  to  proceed  on  my  travels."  Probably  his 
father  had  heard  that  his  son  was  not  pursuing  a  very 
steady  path,  from  persons  well  informed  on  the  matter, 
and  who  might  have — 

"  wondered  that  his  Lordship 
Would  suffer  him  to  spend  his  youth  at  home ; 
While  other  men  of  slender  reputation 
Put  forth  their  sons  to  seek  preferment  out, 
....  Some  to  the  University." 


5.]  Inner  Temple,  Ikth  July,  1763. 

My  dear  Temple, 

When  my  last  letter  was  written  (or  rather  writing) 
I  was  exceedingly  dull,  not  melancholy,  but  merely 
stupid.  I  dare  say  my  letter  would  show  that  plainly, 


ENJOYMENT    OF    SOCIETY.  23 

and  I  dare  say  you  have  expected  an  atonement  for  it 
before  now. 

Well  can  I  imagine  the  feelings  which  you  describe 
upon  your  returning  to  Cambridge.  Mine  were  very 
similar  when  I  found  myself  in  the  country  after  being 
in  London.  The  animal  spirits,  accustomed  to  be  put 
in  motion  by  the  variety  of  bustling  life,  must  be  flat 
and  torpid  in  the  stillness  of  retirement.  Habit,  to  be 
sure,  is  of  great  influence ;  but  our  minds  are  surely 
somewhat  different  in  their  original  composition.  Some 
people  can  support  retirement,  and  others  are  miserable 
without  society;  and  yet  the  minds  of  these  people 
have  been  cultivated,  or  allowed  to  remain  uncultivated, 
in  the  same  degree.  For  my  own  part,  retirement  has 
always  sunk  my  spirits ;  and  I  cannot  say  that  I  ever 
had  any  uneasy  sensations  upon  coming  to  town,  al- 
though I  had  not  been  accustomed  to  a  town  for  some 
time.  What  is  remarkable  in  my  case  is,  that  I  am 
not  fond  of  much  society,  but,  on  the  contrary,  choose 
to  live  a  good  deal  by  myself.  But  then  in  London 
you  can  either  have  or  want  company,  just  as  you 
please,  so  that  you  enjoy  perfect  freedom  ;  and  if  any 
style  of  living  you  may  be  in  is  disagreeable  to  you, 
you  have  the  comfort  to  think  that  it  will  not  be  long 
ere  you  get  rid  of  it,  and  pursue  any  other  plan  which 
you  may  find  to  be  most  agreeable. 

Your  portrait  of  a  fellow  of  college  is  certainly  just ; 
however  there  are,  no  doubt, exceptions.  There  are  many 
of  them,  I  suppose,  men  of  genius  and  elegance.  You 
surprise  me  a  good  deal  when  you  tell  me  that  Mr, 


24 


LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 


Gray  says  he  never  saw  Mr.  Ogilvie :  there  must  be  some 
strange  mistake.  I  fancy  Mr.  Gray  has  either  said  so,  a 
good  time  ago,  before  Mr.  Ogilvie  was  at  Cambridge, 
or  perhaps  there  may  be  another  Mr.  Gray  whom  he 
has  been  introduced  to,  instead  of  the  pensive  Gray.  I 
asked  Ogilvie  yesterday,  and  he  is  positive  he  was  in- 
troduced to  Mr.  Gray  by  a  fellow  of  "  King's,"  whose 
name  he  has  forgot.  He  says  he  never  doubted  his 
being  with  the  author  of  the  'Elegy  in  a  Country 
Churchyard,'  although  he  owns  that  they  did  not  speak 
a  word  about  poetry.  He  says  they  were  some  hours 
together  in  the  best  inn  at  Cambridge.  I  wish  you 
would  take  the  trouble  to  find  out  how  the  affair  has 
really  happened,  and  let  me  know.* 

I  have  been  much  in  my  dissipated  way  since  you 
went  away.  I  have  only  finished  Hume,  and  read 
Harris  on  Happiness,  which  is  very  sensible  and  accu- 
rate ;  but  I  cannot  help  thinking  that  he  had  better 
have  given  us  it  in  the  form  of  an  essay,  as  he  has 
treated  of  poetry,  painting,  and  music.  The  dialogue 
which  he  has  chosen  is,  in  my  opinion,  a  disadvantage. 
A  young  lady  who  looked  at  it  said,  "  If  this  man  had 
all  the  sense  in  the  world,  it  would  do  me  no  good,  for 
I  could  not  attend  to  it  for  laughing."  And  indeed 
a  frequent  repetition  of  "said  he"  and  "I  replied"  is 

*  This  mistaking  Mr.  Gray  (an  apothecary)  at  a  public-house  for 
Gray  the  poet,  and  the  curious  zeal  which  Boswell  shows  for  settino- 

O  O 

to  the  bottom  of  such  an  insignificant  fact,  are  characteristic  traits 
of  character.  The  Mr.  Ogilvie  here  spoken  of  is  often  referred  to  in 
the  '  Life  of  Johnson.' 


PLAN    OF    LIFE.  25 

somewhat  awkward  and  ludicrous.  You  must  excuse 
this  critical  pleasantry  on  one  of  your  favourite  writers. 
I  must  say  this  for  him,  that  I  rose  from  reading  his 
dialogue  happier  and  more  disposed  to  follow  virtue. 

July  1 5M. — I  began  this  letter  yesterday,  but  was  pre- 
vented from  finishing  it  by  some  little  accidents.  The 
longer  I  talk  to  you  in  this  way,  so  much  the  better  will 
it  be  for  me.  I  have  had  a  long  letter  from  my  father, 
full  of  affection  and  good  counsel.  Honest  man !  he  is 
now  very  happy  :  it  is  amazing  to  think  how  much  he 
has  had  at  heart  my  pursuing  the  road  of  civil  life ; 
he  is  anxious  for  fear  I  should  fall  off  from  my  prudent 
system,  and  return  to  my  dissipated,  unsettled  way  of 
thinking ;  and,  in  order  to  make  him  easy,  he  insists 
on  having  my  solemn  promise  that  I  will  persist  in  the 
scheme  on  which  he  is  so  earnestly  bent :  he  knows 
my  fidelity,  and  he  concludes  that  my  promise  will  fix 
me.  Indeed  he  is  much  in  the  right ;  the  only  ques- 
tion is,  how  much  I  am  to  promise.  I  think  I  may 
promise  thus  much :  that  I  shall  from  this  time  study 
propriety  of  conduct,  and  to  be  a  man  of  knowledge 
and  prudence,  as  far  as  I  can;  that  I  shall  make  as 
much  improvement  as  possible  while  I  am  abroad,  and 
when  I  return  shall  put  on  the  gown  as  a  member  of 
the  Faculty  of  Advocates,  and  be  upon  the  footing  of 
a  gentleman  of  business,  with  a  view  to  my  getting 
into  Parliament.  My  father  talks  of  my  setting  out 
soon,  but  says  he  will  soon  write  to  me  fixing  my 
allowance;  I  imagine  therefore  that  I  shall  go  the 
week  after  next.  I  feel  no  small  reluctance  at  leaving 


2(5  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

this  great  Metropolis,  which  I  heartily  agree  with  you 
is  the  best  place  in  the  world  to  live  in.  My  dear 
friend,  I  find  that  London  must  be  the  place  where  I 
shall  pass  a  great  part  of  my  life,  if  I  wish  to  pass  it  with 
satisfaction.  I  hope  we  shall  spend  many  happy  years 
there,  when  we  are  both  settled  as  to  views  of  life  and 
habits  of  living ;  in  the  meantime,  let  me  endeavour 
to  acquire  steadiness  and  constant  propriety  of  con- 
duct, without  which  we  never  can  enjoy  what  I  fondly 
hope  for. 

The  great  Robert*  continues  as  great  as  ever;  he 
displays  that  vigour  of  genius  and  intense  application 
for  which  he  is  so  famous, — in  washing  his  face  and 
brushing  his  hat,  which  he  will  execute  in  a  few  hours  : 
and  he  has  lately  shown  a  coup  de  maitre  in  wash- 
ing some  old  ribbons,  so  as  to  make  them  look  every 
bit  as  well  as  when  they  were  new.  Poor  Bob  is  a 
pretty,  genteel,  lively  boy ;  but  you  must  make  him 
acquire  some  more  knowledge,  else  his  stock  will  soon 
be  exhausted.  I  find  it  somewhat  inconvenient  to 
have  anybody  in  chambers  with  me.  I  wish  you  had 
him  down  at  Cambridge  with  you.  However  we  are 
very  good  friends,  only  I  have  unluckily  allowed  him 
to  be  too  free  with  me ;  and  I  own  it  hurts  me  when 
I  find  my  folly  bringing  me  into  the  situation  of  being 
upon  an  equality  with,  if  not  below,  the  young  man. 
However,  when  I  return  from  abroad  you  shall  see  a 
change  for  the  better,  f 

*  A  younger  brother  of  Mr.  Temple. 

f  This  naive  confession  of  Boswell  is  doubtless  tnie  :  he  is  often 


SUPPER    WITH    DR.  JOHNSON.  27 

I  had  the  honour  of  supping  tete-a-tete  with  Mr. 
Johnson  last  night  ;  by  the  bye,  I  need  not  have  used 
a  French  phrase.  We  sat  till  between  two  and  three. 
He  took  me  by  the  hand  cordially  and  said,  "  My 
dear  Bos  well,  I  love  you  very  much."  Now,  Tem- 
ple, can  I  help  indulging  vanity  ?  Sir  David  Dal- 
rymple  says  to  me,  in  his  last  letter,  "  It  gives  me 
pleasure  to  think  that  you  have  obtained  the  friend- 
ship of  Mr.  Samuel  Johnson  :  he  is  one  of  the  best 
moral  writers  which  England  has  produced.  At  the 
same  time  I  envy  you  the  free  and  undisguised  con- 
verse with  such  a  man.  I  beg  you  to  present  my 
best  respects  to  him,  and  to  assure  him  of  the  vene- 
ration which  I  entertain  for  the  author  of  the  '  Rambler' 
and  of  *  Rasselas.'  In  '  Rasselas  '  you  will  see  a  tender- 
hearted operator,  who  probes  the  wound  only  to  heal 
it.  Swift,  on  the  contrary,  mangles  human  nature; 
he  cuts  and  slashes  as  if  he  took  pleasure  in  the  ope- 
ration, like  the  tyrant  who  said,  Ita  feri,  ut  se  sentiat 


Mr.  Johnson  was  in  vast  good  humour,  and  we  had 
much  conversation.  I  mentioned  Presnoy  to  him, 
but  he  advised  me  not  to  follow  a  plan,  and  he  de- 
clared that  he  himself  never  followed  one  above  two 

seen  letting  himself  down  naturally;  and  on  finding  his  vanity 
somewhat  hurt  thereby,  he  tries  to  raise  himself  again  rather 
awkwardly  and  unsuccessfully. 

f  This  passage  of  Sir  David's  letter  was  the  one  which  Boswell 
read  to,  and  which,  as  he  says,  "  gratified  Dr.  Johnson."  It  was 
the  return  for  the  compliments  which  we  have  seen  Boswell  had 
procured  for  Sir  David  from  Dr.  Johnson. 


28  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

days.  He  advised  me  to  read  just  as  inclination 
prompted  me,  which  alone  he  said  would  do  me  any 
good ;  for  I  had  better  go  into  company  than  read  a 
set  task.  Let  us  study  ever  so  much,  we  must  still 
be  ignorant  of  a  good  deal.  Therefore  the  question 
is,  what  parts  of  science  do  we  want  to  know  ?  He 
said,  too,  that  idleness  was  a  distemper  which  I  ought 
to  combat  against,  and  that  I  should  prescribe  to  my- 
self five  hours  a  day,  and  in  these  hours  gratify  what- 
ever literary  desires  may  spring  up.*  He  is  to  give 
me  his  advice  as  to  what  books  I  should  take  with  me 
from  England.  I  told  him  that  the  '  Rambler'  shall 
accompany  me  round  Europe,  and  so  be  a  Rambler 
indeed :  he  gave  me  a  smile  of  complacency. 
My  dear  friend,  I  ever  am 

Yours  most  sincerely, 
JAMES  BOSWELL. 


The  above  disquisitions  upon  the  follies  of  youth, 
and  the  characteristics  of  his  friend  '  Bob,'  have  a  pe- 
culiar value,  coming  as  they  do  from  the  poor  Boswell 
whose  infirmities  in  some  respects  resemble  those  he 
attributes  to  and  laments  over  in  Bob. 

Reference  will  be  found  in  several  passages  in  the 
ensuing  letter  to  the  difficulties  into  which  Mr.  Tem- 
ple's father  fell.  They  are  only  preserved  here  inas- 

*  "  No  profit  grows  where  is  no  pleasure  ta'en, 
In  brief,  Sir,  study  what  you  most  affect." 

Taming  of  the  Shrerc. 


PARSIMONY    VANQUISHED.  £9 

much  as  they  were  the  occasion  (as  will  be  seen 
presently)  of  a  curious  application  being  made  to  Sir 
A.  Mitchell  on  behalf  of  Temple's  family  by  Boswell, 
which  at  all  events  was  creditable  to  his  kindness  of 
heart.*  Boswell  undertook  also  to  write  letters  of 
comfort  and  moral  wisdom  to  his  unfortunate  friend ; 
one  of  which  is  as  follows. 


6.]  Inner  Temple,  19^  July,  1763. 

My  dear  Sir, 

It  is  a  kind  of  established  rule,  in  writing  letters,  to 
begin  with  acknowledging  the  receipt  of  our  corre- 
spondent's last  favours.  I  should  have  done  so  just 
now  were  it  not  for  an  antipathy  of  established  rules, 
which  I  have  not  yet  altogether  got  the  better  of. 
You  pay  me  some  genteel  compliments  on  the  plea- 
sure which  my  letters  gave  you.  I  could  return  you 
them  fourfold ;  for  I  give  you  my  honest  word  that 
even  glittering  guineas  do  not  give  me  more  pleasure. 
As  I  have  now  vanquished  my  demon  of  narrowness, 
the  assertion  is  not  near  so  strong  as  it  would  have 
been  not  many  weeks  ago. 

The  enclosed  letter  from  your  father  came  to  hand 
yesterday.  I  took  the  liberty  to  open  it,  being  anxious 
to  know  what  he  had  done  in  your  affairs.  I  was  sur- 
prised to  find  that  he  does  not  say  a  word  in  answer 
to  your  proposal  that  he  should  go  abroad,  and  I  think 
he  seems  too  much  inclined  to  delay.  You  will  under- 

*  See,  post >  p.  55. 


30 


LETTERS    OF   BOSWELL. 


stand  all  the  circumstances  which  he  mentions  better 
than  I  could.  I  wish  from  my  soul  that  matters  were 
settled,  as  you  could  know  clearly  how  much  you  have 
to  depend  upon.  You  have  indeed,  my  friend,  been 
very  unfortunate  at  your  entry  into  life  ;  but  your  bad 
fortune  has  served  as  a  touchstone  to  try  your  virtue, 
— of  the  power  of  which  neither  your  friends  nor  even 
yourself  could  be  so  fully  convinced  had  prosperity 
beamed  upon  you  with  unclouded  ray.  This  is  very 
good  after-reasoning ;  but  I  fancy  there  are  few  phi- 
losophers who  would  court  adversity  merely  to  be  con- 
vinced how  well  they  could  behave.  However,  my 
friend,  it  is  certainly  true  philosophy  to  submit  to  the 
will  of  Heaven,  and  to  fulfil  the  amiable  duties  of 
morality. 

Bob  has  been  obliged  to  go  down  to  Salisbury  to 
attend  the  Assizes,  where  the  appeal  from  the  court- 
martial  of  his  regiment  is  to  be  tried.  His  expenses 
are  to  be  borne  out  of  the  regimental  money :  Cam- 
bers, their  attorney,  supplied  him.  He  went  down 
upon  Sunday.  I  accompanied  him  to  Hounslow,  and 
returned  to  town  in  the  return-chaise.  Bob  and  I 
were  better  together  the  two  last  days;  he  will  do 
very  well.  I  have  introduced  him  at  Mr.  Dempster's ; 
we  breakfasted  there  on  Saturday.  Dempster  and 
Miss  Dempster  are  both  very  fond  of  him.  I  have 
now  had  full  and  free  possession  of  the  chambers ;  I 
like  them  much :  it  is  the  best  way  for  a  single  man 
to  live  that  I  can  imagine. 

I  was  with  Mr.  Johnson  today.    I  was  in  his  garret, 


DR.  JOHNSON'S  CHAMBERS.  31 

up  four  pair  of  stairs;  it  is  very  airy,  commands  a 
view  of  St.  Paul's  and  many  a  brick  roof.  He  has 
many  good  books,  but  they  are  all  lying  in  confusion 

and  dust. 

I  ever  am  your  sincere  friend, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


The  inspection  of  Dr.  Johnson's  rooms  in  Inner 
Temple  Lane,  mentioned  in  this  letter,  was  performed 
under  the  auspices  of  the  Doctor's  humble  friend, 
Robert  Levett,  and  is  thus  described  by  Boswell 
in  his  '  Life : ' — "  Mr.  Levett  this  day  showed  me 
Dr.  Johnson's  library,  which  was  contained  in  two 
garrets  over  his  chambers,  where  Lintot,  son  of  the 
celebrated  bookseller  of  that  name,  had  formerly  his 
warehouse.  I  found  a  number  of  good  books,  but 
very  dusty,  and  in  great  confusion.  The  floor  was 
strewed  with  manuscript  leaves  in  Johnson's  own 
handwriting,  which  I  beheld  with  a  degree  of  vene- 
ration, supposing  they  might  contain  portions  of  the 
'  Rambler'  or  '  Rasselas.'  I  observed  an  apparatus 
for  chemical  experiments,  of  which  Johnson  was  all 
his  life  very  fond.  The  place  seemed  very  favourable 
for  retirement  and  meditation.  Johnson  told  me  that 
he  went  up  thither  without  mentioning  it  to  Jais  ser- 
vant when  he  wanted  to  study  secure  from  interrup- 
tion, for  he  would  not  allow  his  servant  to  say  he  was 
not  at  home  when  he  really  was.  '  A  servant's  strict 
regard  for  truth,'  said  he,  '  must  be  weakened  by  such 


32  LETTERS    OF   BOSWELL. 

a  practice.  A  philosopher  may  know  that  it  is  merely 
a  form  of  denial,  but  few  servants  are  such  nice  dis- 
tinguishers.  If  I  accustom  a  servant  to  teh1  a  lie  for 
me,  have  I  not  reason  to  apprehend  that  he  will  teh1 
many  lies  for  himself?'"  "Johnson's  Staircase"  is  a 
well-known  place  within  the  precincts  of  the  Temple, 
and  the  garrets  referred  to  are  now  occupied  by  a 
laundress.* 

A  certain  ambiguous  sentence  in  the  '  Life  of  John- 
son/ and  which  has  employed  some  editorial  inge- 
nuity, is  perhaps  elucidated  by  the  following  letter. 
It  is  simply  a  question  of  who  was  the  person  "  men- 
tioned" by  Boswell  and  abused  by  Johnson,  during  a 
conversation  recorded  by  the  faithful  biographer.  The 
passage  runs  thus :  "  Of  a  gentleman  who  was  men- 
tioned Dr.  Johnson  said,  '  I  have  not  met  with  any 
man  for  a  long  time  who  has  given  me  such  general 
displeasure.  He  is  totally  unfixed  in  his  principles, 
and  wants  to  puzzle  other  people.'  I  said,  '  his  prin- 
ciples had  been  poisoned  by  a  noted  infidel  writer,  but 
that  he  was  nevertheless  a  benevolent,  good  man ; ' 
whereupon  Johnson  of  course  dilated  all  the  more  to  the 
disadvantage  of  the  '  gentleman,'  and  said  he  should 
not  like  to  trust  him  with  money  or  '  with  young 
ladies,  for  then  there  is  always  temptation.' '  Then 
the  Doctor  proceeds  from  the  "  gentleman"  to  Hume 

*  It  should  perhaps  be  mentioned,  that  it  is  understood  to  be  a 
fact  that  a  laundress  in  the  Temple  is  not  necessarily  a  washer  of 
anything,  so  that  the  apartments  need  not  be  figured  to  the  sensi- 
tive reader's  mind  as  now  dedicated  to  linen  and  the  smell  of  soap- 
suds. 


LETTER- WRITING.  33 

and  other  sceptics,  of  whom  he  says,  they  are  "  vain 
men,"  and  that  as  truth  would  not  afford  sufficient 
food  to  their  vanity,  they  betook  themselves  to  error. 
"  Truth,  Sir,  is  a  cow  which  will  yield  such  people  no 
more  milk,  and  so  they  are  gone  to  milk  the  bull." 
Mr.  Croker  inferred  in  his  note  that  Dempster  was  the 
"gentleman"  who  was  thus  introduced  by  his  friend 
Boswell  to  be  criticized,  and  the  following  letter  cor- 
roborates the  supposition. 

The  supper  which  preceded,  and  indeed  produced, 
the  conversation  in  question,  took  place  on  the  20th  of 
July,  and  an  account  of  it  is  given  at  length  in  the 
'Life.' 


7.]  Inner  Temple,  23rd  July,  1763. 

My  dear  Temple, 

Would  it  not  be  absurd  if  you  and  I  should  stand 
upon  ceremony  in  our  correspondence  ?  I  think  our 
best  way  is  just  to  write  to  each  other  whenever  we 
feel  an  inclination  to  say  something.  When  we  are 
together  we  never  think  of  parcelling  out  our  sen- 
tences in  a  reciprocal  proportion  ;  at  least,  I  dare  say 
I  speak  three  sentences  for  one  of  yours ;  why  then 
should  I  think  that  written  conversation  should  be 
managed  so  very  differently?  In  reality  I  do  not 
think  so ;  and  my  writing  this  before  I  have  an  answer 
to  my  last  is  a  proof  of  my  opinion.  Indeed  I  must 
observe  that,  to  an  indolent  man,  conversation  is  so 
much  easier  than  writing  that  he  will  gladly  seize  a 
large  portion  of  the  former,  but  with  reluctance  con- 

D 


34  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

tribute  his  share  of  the  latter ;  and  hence  it  is  that  we 
see  so  many  awkward  and  ridiculous  excuses  of  hurry 
and  a  thousand  other  things,  which,  although  they 
have  already  been  heartily  laughed  at,  can  still  present 
themselves  with  some  degree  of  confidence. 

On  Wednesday  evening  Mr.  Johnson,  Dempster, 
and  my  uncle,  Dr.  Boswell,  supped  with  me  at  my 
chambers.  I  had  prodigious  satisfaction  to  find  Demp- 
ster's sophistry  (which  he  has  learnt  from  Hume  and 
Rousseau)  vanquished  by  the  solid  sense  and  vigorous 
reasoning  of  Johnson.  It  was  a  very  fertile  evening, 
and  my  journal  is  stored  with  its  fruits.  Dempster 
was  as  happy  as  a  vanquished  argumentator  could  be ; 
and  the  honest  Doctor  was  cheerful  and  conversible 
and  highly  entertained. 

Last  night  Mr.  Johnson  and  I  supped  together  at 
the  Turk's  Head  Coffee-house :  he  was  extremely  en- 
tertaining and  instructive.  I  learn  more  from  him 
than  from  any  man  I  ever  was  with.  He  told  me  a 
very  odd  thing, — that  he  knew  at  eighteen  as  much  as 
he  does  now ;  that  is  to  say,  his  judgment  is  much 
stronger,  but  he  had  then  stored  up  almost  all  the 
facts  that  he  has  now,  and  he  says  that  he  has  led  but 
an  idle  life ;  only  think,  Temple,  of  that !  He  advised 
me  by  all  means  to  study,  or,  as  he  expressed  it,  to  ply 
my  book  while  I  was  young,  for  that  then  was  the 
time  for  acquiring  knowledge.  He  is  to  correspond 
with  me  wherever  I  am,  and  he  said,  "  My  dear  Bos- 
well,  it  would  give  me  great  pain  to  part  with  you  if 
I  thought  we  were  not  to  meet  again." 


SUPPERS    WITH    JOHNSON.  35 

Master  Robert  is  returned.  I  have  been  writing  a 
pleasant  ditty  upon  him : — 

TUNE,  Nancy  Dawson, 

Bob  Temple  has  at  Sarum  been, 
And  all  the  pretty  girls  has  seen ; 
But  he  came  back  in  the  machine, 
Because  he  was  the  barber. 

From  Mother  Bowles  he  got  good  wine ; 
He  lick'd  his  lips  and  call'd  it  fine  ; 
But  now  the  dog  at  Cliff's  must  dine, 
And  is  not  that  the  barber  ? 

He  talks  of  getting  his  money  and  going  to  Cam- 
bridge on  Tuesday.  I  wish  he  may  :  I  shall  be  better 
in  chambers  by  myself,  and  Robert  (to  use  the  phrase 
of  the  celebrated  Mrs.  Legge)  is  too  much  of  a  self-lover. 
He  has  kept  the  snug  room  to  himself.  I  humbled 
poor  'Gilvie  finely  with  telling  him  of  Gray  the  apo- 
thecary.* Morris  f  called  and  delivered  your  letter:  I 
am  to  pass  an  evening  at  his  lodgings  soon.  Clack 
supped  with  me  on  Tuesday.  I  have  heard  again  from 
Scotland,  but  my  time  for  departure  is  not  yet  fixed. 
Believe  me,  my  dear  Temple,  to  be 

Most  sincerely  yours, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


*  Eeferring  to  Mr.  Ogflvie's  mistake  in  fancying  that  he  had  met 
Gray  the  poet  at  an  inn  in  Cambridge  (see  ante,  p.  24). 

f  Probably  Corbyn  Morris,  the  author  of  an  '  Essay  on  Wit, 
Humour,  and  Ridicule.' 

D2 


36  .LETTERS    OF    BOS  WELL.     . 

8.]  _;    Inner  Temple,  ZMk  July,  1763. 

My  dear  Friend, 

This  comes  to  you  by  Bob,  who  has  cheerfully  con- 
sented to  go  down  to  Cambridge.  He  has  been  very 
eager  to  get  back  the  ring,  but  the  little  cunning 
gipsy  still  keeps  it :  she  is  a  deceitful  little  jade ;  she 
ought  to  be  whipped. 

Bob  has  paid  the  tailor's  bill  of  small  articles ;  it 
conies  to  eleven  shillings :  this  has  reduced  him  again, 
so  I  have  (or  rather,  am  to)  let  him  have  another 
guinea.  Love  is  to  breakfast  with  me  tomorrow.  I 
hope  I  shall  get  him  to  pay  me  up  some  more  of  what 
he  owes  me.  Pray  is  a  pay  up  an  English  phrase?  I 
know  pay  down  is.  But  they  may  both  express  the 
same  thing,  just  as  downright  and  upright  both  signify 
honest.  I  have  this  night  received  a  large  packet  from 
my  father,  with  my  letter  of  credit,  and  several  letters 
of  recommendation  to  different  people  in  Holland. 
The  letters  have  been  sent  open  for  me  to  seal,  so  I 
have  been  amused  to  see  the  different  modes  of  treat- 
ing that  favourite  subject  myself.  Sir  David  Dal- 
rymple  has  written  to  Count  Nassau:  his  letter  is  in 
French,  and  is  exceedingly  genteel.  He  recommends 
Mr.  Bos  well  as  unjeune  homme  de  famitte  et  de  merite, 
and  hopes  he  will  find  in  the  Count  le  guide  et  le  pro- 
tecteur  de  sa  jeunesse.  My  father  writes  to  Mynheer 
Abrahamus  Gronovius,  an  old  Literatus  at  Leyden : 
it  is  an  excellent  letter,  and  recalls  their  old  ideas  with 
more  liveliness  than  you  would  imagine.  I  have  se- 
veral other  letters,  so  that  I  can  be  at  no  loss  where  I  am 


VISIT   TO    HOLLAND.  37 

going,  especially  as  I  have  got  some  relations  of  the 
first  fashion  at  the  Hague.  My  father  has  allowed  me 
£60  a  quarter, — £240  a  year :  that  is  not  a  great 
allowance,  but  with  economy  I  may  live  very  well 
upon  it,  for  Holland  is  a  cheap  country.  However 
I  am  determined  not  to  be  straitened,  nor  to  encou- 
rage the  least  narrowness  of  disposition  as  to  saving 
money,  but  will  draw  upon  my  father  for  any  sums  I 
find  necessary.  My  affairs  being  thus  far  settled,  I 
must  set  out  soon.  I  can  have  no  excuse  for  indulg- 
ing myself  in  a  much  longer  stay  in  London ;  and  yet 
I  must  own  to  you,  my  dear  friend,  that  I  feel  a  good 
deal  of  uneasiness  at  the  thoughts  of  quitting  the  place 
where  my  affection  is  truly  centred,  for  there  I  enjoy 
most  happiness :  however  I  am  determined  to  go  next 
week.  I  hope  I  shall  not  be  feeble-minded,  but  pluck 
up  manly  resolution,  and  consider  that  I  am  leaving 
London  in  order  to  see  the  world,  store  my  mind  with 
more  ideas,  establish  a  proper  character,  and  then  re- 
turn to  the  Metropolis  much  happier,  and  more  quali- 
fied for  a  solid  relish  of  its  advantages. 

Mr.  Wilkes  is  gone  to  France.  He  was  so  good  as  to 
let  me  have  half-a-dozen  franks  to  astonish  a  few  staunch 
North  Britons.  I  told  him  I  was  to  be  at  Utrecht  next 
winter ;  he  said,  "  If  you  will  write  to  me  in  George 
Street,  I  will  send  you  the  detail  of  this  country ;" 
this  was  very  obliging,  it  would  be  a  vast  treasure; 
but  I  don't  know  if  it  would  be  proper  to  keep  a 
correspondence  with  a  gentleman  in  his  present  ca- 
pacity. It  was  a  great  honour  to  me  his  offering 


38  LETTERS    OF   BOS  WELL. 

it ;  I  must  be  proud :  advise  me  fully  about  it,  and 

believe  me  ever  yours, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 

P.S. — I  have  sat  up  all  night  writing  letters  to 
Scotch  Judges  and  relations.  Bob  will  certainly  be 
with  you  on  Thursday. 


9.]  Inner  Temple,  2&tk  July^  1763. 

My  dear  Sir, 

The  light  in  which  you  represent  your  affairs  is  a 
very  disagreeable  one,  and  gives  me  very  great  concern. 
The  suspected  attorney  is  a  sad  circumstance ;  but  it 
is  lucky  that  you  are  on  your  guard,  and  so  may  pre- 
vent him  from  doing  you  material  hurt  without  a  dis- 
covery. Your  father's  indolence,  and  even  inattention, 
I  can  see  is  very  great.  It  is  amazing  how  he  should 
never  once  have  mentioned  a  subject  which  you  wrote 
so  explicitly  and  so  strongly  of;  I  cannot  understand 
it ;  he  surely  could  not  mean  to  shuffle  the  thing  off 
cunningly,  and  yet  his  indolence  (if  you  suppose  this 
to  be  owing  to  indolence  alone)  must  be  inconceivably 
great.  One  would  think  that  his  own  interest,  and  the 
interest  of  those  who  are  most  dear  to  him,  might  rouse 
him  from  this  apathy.  It  is  unlucky  that  Mr.  Comp- 
ton  is  a  man  of  the  same  temper,  even  in  a  higher  de- 
gree :  they  will  encourage  each  other  to  be  easy  and 
keep  their  minds  serene.  I  wish  you  would  write  to 
your  father  again,  and  in  the  same  way  that  you  for- 
merly did.  Represent  to  him  how  severe  it  is  upon 


TEMPLE'S  AFFAIRS.  39 

you  to  remain  in  this  uncertain  situation,  and  beseech 
him  to  exert  himself  so  as  to  get  matters  settled  either 
one  way  or  another.  Patterson  is  such  a  dog  that  you 
should  endeavour  to  prevent  him  from  taking  any  ad- 
vantage of  your  misfortunes,  which,  upon  this  as  well 
as  other  occasions,  he  seems  strongly  inclined  to  do. 
In  short,  my  dear  Temple,  I  am  at  a  loss  how  to  ad- 
vise you  ;  but  you  may  believe  that  I  am  most  warmly 
concerned  for  your  welfare,  and  shall  be  anxious  to 
hear  from  time  to  time  how  your  affairs  go  on,  till 
they  are  brought  to  a  happy  conclusion ;  for  I  will  not 
offend  you  with  the  legal  word  issue.  Pray  keep  up 
your  spirits,  and  pray  push  your  father  to  despatch. 
Do  not  despond.  Your  virtue  cannot  go  unrewarded 
either  in  this  or  another  world ;  but  as  weak  mortals 
must  have  sure  comfort  to  support  them  in  this  world, 
reflect,  my  friend,  that  you  have  sure  comfort;  you 
have  true  friends, — you  have  Nicholls  and  Boswell, 
whom  you  may  look  upon  as  parts  of  yourself.  Con- 
sider this  is  an  exalted  comfort  which  few  enjoy, 
although  they  have  many  of  the  shining  gifts  of  for- 
tune. Which,  pray,  would  you  in  your  heart  prefer  ? 
Remember  me  to  Nicholls  with  the  remembrance  of 
esteem :  I  hope  to  be  much  better  and  much  longer 
acquainted  with  him. 

As  to  poor  Bob,  I  am  sorry  to  tell  you  that  the 
blundering  fellow  Barry  was  in  a  mistake  in  saying 
that  any  money  was  due  to  him.  Mr.  Adie,  the  agent's 
head  clerk,  has  shown  him  his  accounts,  by  which  it 
appears  there  is  not  a  farthing  due.  This  is  a  most 


40  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

unlucky  circumstance ;  however  I  think  Bob  has  no- 
thing now  to  keep  him  longer  in  London,  so  I  have 
advised  him  to  go  down  in  the  Cambridge  Fly  on 
Thursday.  I  am  at  present  very  poor,  so  cannot  do 
what  I  could  wish ;  however  I  have  let  him  have  an- 
other guinea,  which  will  discharge  some  trifling  debts 
and  carry  him  down.  Mrs.  Legge  and  the  barber 
must  wait  a  little.  You  will  be  wanting  money  by 
this  time ;  I  will  try  and  get  some  more  of  my  debt 
recovered  and  send  it  to  you.  I  was  with  Adie  today, 
and  had  the  account  from  himself. 

I  ever  am  yours  sincerely, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


In  the  following  letter  of  27th  July  there  is  another 
amusing  "  analysis"  of  poor  Bob's  character,  which,  as 
coming  from  Boswell  (who  for  this  purpose  plants 
himself  on  a  moral  elevation),  has  a  somewhat  comical 
effect.  It  is  hardly  necessary  to  observe  that  this 
letter  is  not  printed  on  account  of  its  intrinsic  wisdom, 
— a  remark  which  will  also  apply  to  many  others  which 
succeed.  It  presents  however  one  of  the  many  in- 
stances of  Boswell's  kindness,  which  he  felt  for  his 
friend  when  suffering  from  difficulties  and  family  an- 
noyances. 

10.]  Inner  Temple,  21th  July,  1763. 

My  dear  Temple, 

I  am  really  very  uneasy  on  your  brother's  account ; 
in  the  first  place,  as  I  am  sorry  to  see  a  fellow-creature 


TEMPLE'S  BROTHER.  4l 

in  so  much  danger ;  and  in  the  next  place,  as  his  be- 
haviour cannot  fail  to  be  a  great  cause  of  unhappiness 
to  you,  my  worthy  friend,  whose  happiness  is  most 
sincerely  wished  for  by  me.  No  recent  false  step  has 
led  me  to  make  this  dispiriting  exordium ;  but  as  he 
is  going  to  leave  me,  I  feel  a  strong  desire  to  write  to 
you  about  him.  I  have  studied  his  character  tho- 
roughly ;  and  by  putting  myself  quite  on  a  footing 
with  him,  I  have  had  an  opportunity  of  knowing  him 
perfectly.  He  has  no  great  powers  either  of  under- 
standing or  imagination,  so  that  he  has  not  been  de- 
signed by  nature  for  a  man  who  should  make  a  shi- 
ning figure.  At  the  same  time  he  has  got  a  good 
share  of  sense  and  spirit,  which,  as  things  go,  may 
carry  a  man  very  well  through  life,  perhaps  better 
than  higher  qualities  will.  It  is  however  somewhat 
unlucky  for  him  that  he  has  got  an  exceeding  easy 
and  heedless  disposition,  which  has  led  him  into  many 
difficulties,  and  which  prevents  him  from  feeling  the 
consequences  of  these  difficulties  so  severely  as  he 
ought  to  do.  He  is  good-humoured  and  void  of  ma- 
levolence; but  he  has  not  the  generosity  one  could 
wish.  He  is  very  selfish.  I  am  afraid  his  principles 
of  virtue  are  not  firmly  fixed,  though  he  has  a  high 
idea  of  honour.  Have  I  not  analyzed  his  character 
pretty  well  ?  I  could  give  you  instances  of  the  truth 
of  every  article.  I  imagine  you  yourself  either  have 
been  or  may  be  convinced  from  the  same  good  au- 
thority. I  really  have  a  liking  for  Bob,  and  wish  very 
much  to  see  him  do  well.  As  he  has  got  so  able  and 


42  LETTERS    OF   BOSWELL. 

willing  a  friend  as  General  Crawfurd,  I  hope  he  will 
rise  in  the  array,  if  his  extravagance  does  not  ruin 
him.  Too  quick  a  rise,  while  he  is  so  very  young, 
might  do  him  harm ;  and  therefore  his  coming  in 
again  as  lieutenant  upon  full  pay,  and  remaining  some 
time  in  that  situation,  will  be  best  for  him.  This 
looks  like  a  paradox,  but  I  imagine  it  is  just.  Were 
he  to  get  a  Company  just  now,  he  would  immediately 
have  a  servant  and  a  couple  of  horses  (as  he  talks), 
and  this  would  give  him  such  ideas  of  his  consequence 
that  he  would  enlarge  his  expenses  in  every  other 
article,  and  so  would  get  into  debt  worse  than  ever. 

Therefore,  my  friend,  by  no  means  think  of  pur- 
chasing a  Company  for  him,  at  least  till  after  some 
years  of  trial  you  can  depend  upon  his  prudent  con- 
duct. Were  you  to  buy  one  for  him  just  now,  you 
would  by  that  means  risk  a  thousand  pounds  on  the 
uncertain  conduct  of  a  giddy  youth ;  and  were  he 
again  to  be  in  distress,  you  would  be  deprived,  in  a 
great  measure,  of  the  means  of  relieving  him.  Leave 
him  to  the  General,  and  see  what  he  will  do  for  him ; 
and  at  the  same  time  see  how  Bob  behaves.  Com- 
missions can  never  be  dearer  than  they  are  now  ;  and 
you  will  have  your  money  ready  to  buy  a  Company 
for  him  if  you  find  that  he  waits  long  for  preferment 
without  money.  However,  I  must  observe  that  sup- 
posing him  to  wait  seven  years,  a  young  man  even  of 
very  good  interest  who  gets  a  Company  at  twenty- 
four  is  reckoned  very  lucky  ;  but  he  may  have  it 
sooner  if  he  behaves  properly.  I  am  glad  that  he 


TEMPLE'S  BROTHER.  43 

goes  down  to  Cambridge.  His  going  thither  removes « 
him  from  the  dissipation  and  vice  which  idleness  is 
apt  to  drive  a  young  man  to  in  a  metropolis ;  and 
by  want  of  gay  amusements,  and  by  seeing  good  ex- 
ample, he  may  acquire  a  habit  of  study  and  reflection 
that  may  be  of  use  to  him  as  long  as  he  lives.  En- 
courage him  in  the  notion  that  he  is  now  laying  the 
foundation  of  being  a  happy  and  well-esteemed  officer. 
I  would  not  have  you  push  him  to  a  formal  plan  of 
reading,  at  least  for  some  time,  as  he  might  be  dis- 
gusted at  so  irksome  an  idea.  Be  satisfied  at  first  if 
books  should  only  serve  (as  they  say  with  respect  to 
children)  to  keep  him  out  of  mischief;  and  if  he  ac- 
quires even  a  relish  of  reading  merely  for  amusement, 
it  is  a  great  deal  gained.  Above  all,  do  what  you  can 
to  establish  him  in  solid  notions  of  religion  and  mo- 
rality. My  dear  friend,  I  wish  these  hints  may  be  of 
any  use ;  you  know  they  come  from  a  sincere  friend 

when  they  come  from 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


Boswell  is  now  prepared  for  his  departure  for 
Utrecht  and  his  travels.  He  has  read  the  letters  of 
introduction  with  which  he  is  provided,  to  see  how  he 
is  described ;  he  has  meditated  upon  his  allowance  of 
£240  a  year,  and  has  resolved  that,  in  order  not  to 
encourage  a  "narrow"  disposition,  he  will  draw  on  his 
father  for  any  sums  he  finds  necessary.  He  then  sheds 
a  tear  of  regret  upon  leaving  the  certain  joys  of  Fleet 
Street  for  the  problematical  pleasures  of  foreign  cities. 


44  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

But  there  is  one  great  gratification  in  store  for  the 
jeime  homme  de  famille  et  de  merite ;  "Would  you 
believe  it,"  says  he,  "  Mr.  Johnson's  friendship  for  me 
is  so  great  that  he  insists  on  seeing  me  sail,  and  has 
actually  taken  a  place  in  the  coach  to  accompany 
me  to  Harwich."  Accordingly  to  Harwich  they  went, 
and,  as  Boswell  tells  us,  "My  revered  friend  walked 
down  with  me  to  the  beach,  where  we  embraced  and 
parted  with  tenderness,  and  engaged  to  correspond  by 
letters.  I  said,  '  I  hope,  Sir,  you  will  not  forget  me 
in  my  absence.'  Johnson:  'Nay,  Sir,  it  is  more  likely 
you  should  forget  me  than  that  I  should  forget  you.' 
As  the  vessel  put  out  to  sea  I  kept  my  eyes  upon  him 
for  a  considerable  time,  while  he  remained  rolling  his 
majestic  frame  in  his  usual  manner;  and  at  last  I 
perceived  him  walk  back  into  the  town,  and  he  dis- 
appeared." We  have  just  seen  a  description  by  Bos- 
well  of  his  friend  Bob's  character ;  we  may  now  per- 
haps glance  at  the  picture  of  Boswell's  by  Dr.  John- 
son, in  a  letter  written  to  him  at  Utrecht,  dated  De- 
cember 8th,  1763,  which,  both  for  its  own  merits  and 
as  containing  the  Doctor's  view  at  this  time,  and  after 
a  very  short  acquaintance  of  his  correspondent's  cha- 
racter and  habits,  should  perhaps  be  here  presented.* 
"  There  lurks  perhaps  in  every  human  heart  a  de- 
sire of  distinction,  which  inclines  every  man  first  to 
hope  and  then  to  believe  that  nature  has  given  him 
something  peculiar  to  himself.  This  vanity  makes 
one  mind  nurse  aversion,  and  another  actuate  desires, 

*  See  'Life  of  Johnson,'  anno  1763. 


LETTER    FROM    DR.  JOHNSON.  45 

till  they  rise  by  art  much  above  their  original  state 
of  power ;  and  as  affectation  in  time  improves  to  habit, 
they  at  last  tyrannize  over  him  who  at  first  encouraged 
them  only  for  show.  Every  desire  is  a  viper  in  the 
bosom,  who  while  he  was  chill  was  harmless,  but  when 
warmth  gave  him  strength  he  exerted  his  poison.  You 
know  a  gentleman*  who,  when  first  he  set  his  foot  in 
the  gay  world,  as  he  prepared  himself  to  whirl  in  the 
vortex  of  pleasure,  imagined  a  total  indifference  and  a 
universal  negligence  to  be  the  most  agreeable  conco- 
mitants of  youth,  and  the  strongest  indication  of  an 
airy  temper  and  a  quick  apprehension.  Vacant  to 
every  object  and  sensible  of  every  impulse,  he  thought 
that  all  appearance  of  diligence  would  deduct  some- 
thing from  the  reputation  of  genius,  and  hoped  that 
he  should  appear  to  attain,  amidst  all  the  ease  of  care- 
lessness and  all  the  tumult  of  diversion,  that  know- 
ledge and  those  accomplishments  which  mortals  of  the 
common  fabric  obtain  only  by  mute  abstraction  and 
solitary  drudgery.  He  tried  this  scheme  of  life  awhile, 
was  made  weary  of  it  by  his  sense  and  his  virtue ;  he 
then  wished  to  return  to  his  studies,  and  finding  long 
habits  of  idleness  and  pleasure  harder  to  be  cured 
than  he  expected,  still  willing  to  retain  his  claim  to 
some  extraordinary  prerogatives,  resolved  the  common 
consequences  of  irregularity  into  an  unalterable  de- 
gree of  destiny,  and  concluded  that  nature  had  origi- 
nally formed  him  incapable  of  rational  employment. 

*  Of  course  the  description  which  here  follows  applies  to  Boswell 
himself. 


46  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

Let  all  such  fancies,  illusive  and  destructive,  be  ba- 
nished henceforward  from  your  thoughts  for  ever.  Re- 
solve, and  keep  your  resolution;  choose,  and  pursue 
your  choice." 

This  letter,  which  would  have  been  valuable  if  Bos- 
well  had  acted  upon  its  precepts,  was  not  followed  by 
others  during  the  next  two  years,  although  he  tells  us 
that  he  wrote  to  his  revered  friend  on  fitting  occasions. 
However,  on  Boswell's  return  the  Doctor  did  write  a 
flattering  letter,  saying  that  as  "  apologies  for  such 
neglect  are  seldom  of  any  use,"  he  therefore  makes 
none,  and  so  closes  the  subject ;  and  nothing  more  was 
heard  about  the  poor  biographer's  chagrin  at  having 
had  no  more  letters. 


11.]  Inner  Temple,  Z8th  July,  1763. 

My  dear  Temple, 

I  have  now  fixed  tomorrow  se'nnight,  Friday  the  5th 
of  August,  for  the  day  of  my  departure ;  and  on  Satur- 
day, the  6th,  I  shall  be  upon  the  Channel.  Alas,  my 
friend !  let  me  disclose  my  weakness  to  you.  My  de- 
parture fills  me  with  a  kind  of  gloom  that  quite  over- 
shadows my  mind.  I  could  almost  weep  to  think  of 
leaving  dear  London  and  the  calm  retirement  of  the 
Inner  Temple.  I  am  now  launching  into  the  wide 
world,  and  am  to  be  long  at  a  distance  from  my  dear 
Temple,  whose  kind  and  amiable  counsel  never  failed 
to  soothe  my  dejected  mind.  You  may  see  I  am  some- 
what melancholy ;  pray  comfort  me.  This  is  very  effe- 
minate and  very  young,  but  I  cannot  help  it.  My 


PREPARATIONS    FOR   HIS    TOUR.  47 

time  is  fixed,  and  I  will  go ;  I  have  taken  my  resolu- 
tion, and  you  shall  see  that  I  can  keep  to  it. 

I  enclose  you  a  friendly  dissertation,  which  you  may 
read  at  your  leisure ;  it  will  show  how  much  stronger 
my  mind  was  last  night  only.  I  am  just  going  to 
meet  Mr.  Johnson  at  the  Turk's  Head.*  My  kind 
service  to  Bob. 

Yours  ever,  with  most  sincere  affection, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


12.]  Inner  Temple,  3rd  August,  1763. 

My  dear  Temple, 

Your  last  letter  is  from  a  man  in  that  dejection  of 
spirits  which  both  you  and  I  are  unhappily  subject  to ; 
all  things  appear  dismal  then,  and  reason  no  longer 
bears  sway.  My  dear  friend,  let  us  mutually  relieve 
and  comfort  each  other  in  these  darksome  hours ;  and 
let  this  be  your  constant  solace,  as  it  is  always  mine, 
that  true  friendship  such  as  ours  will  ever  last,  and 
will  ever  render  us  sensible  to  each  other's  distress  of 
every  kind ;  and  surely  we  are  both  very  much  mistaken 
if  either  of  us  should  want  assistance  of  any  kind  which 
the  other  would  not  cheerfully  give.  "  Give"  is  a  bad 
word,  it  makes  too  great  a  difference  between  us,  who 
should  consider  ourselves  as  one  person. 

I  hope  in  God  your  affairs  will  be  settled  in  such  a 
way  that  you  shall  be  able  to  live  comfortably.  Pray, 
my  friend,  do  not  indulge  gloomy  thoughts.  Let 

*  Duly  chronicled  in  the  Seventeenth  Chapter  of  the  '  Life  of 
Johnson.' 


48  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

pleasing  study  and  meditation  amuse  your  mind,  and 
relieve  yourself  by  thinking  on  your  absent  friend,  who 
shall  often  think  of  you,  and  when  he  returns  shall 
be  most  cordially  connected  with  you.  Tomorrow 
morning,  at  five  o'clock,  I  set  out  upon  my  travels.  I 
am  much  hurried  with  putting  all  my  things  in  order. 
I  have  left  some  parcels  in  one  of  the  drawers,  which 
I  beg  you  may  keep  for  me  till  I  return.  I  have  been 
a  great  deal  with  Mr.  Johnson  of  late,  and  (would  you 
believe  it  ?)  his  friendship  for  me  is  so  great  that  he 
insists  on  seeing  me  sail,  and  has  actually  taken  a 
place  in  the  coach  to  accompany  me  to  Harwich. 

I  am  quite  hurried  and  confused  tonight ;  however 
I  shall  go  with  rational  and  agreeable  views  of  im- 
provement, and  hope  to  return  much  better  than  when 
I  went  away.  I  like  your  present  of  Mason's  Poems 
exceedingly,  and  shall  take  it  only,  as  Horace  can  be 
had  everywhere.  Mr.  Gray's  Poems  will  be  left  for 
you  with  Mr.  Edwards.  And  now,  my  dear  Temple, 
God  bless  you !  I  am  going  far  away,  and  for  a  long 
time,  but  let  us  correspond  frequently,  and  so  make 
the  time  seem  shorter.  Remember  me  kindly  to 
Nicholls  and  Bob.  Pare  well ! 

I  ever  am  yours,  with  sincere  regard, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 

Prom  the  date  of  the  above  letter  to  February,  1766, 
Boswell  was  abroad,  and  none  of  his  letters  to  Temple, 
if  any  were  written,  have  been  preserved;  how  the 
interval  of  time  was  spent  will  be  seen  presently. 


49 


CHAPTER  IV. 

1764-1766. 

STUDIES  AT  UTRECHT. — LETTER  TO  SIR  ANDREW  MITCHELL. 

BOSWELL'S  "  SPIRITED  TOUR." — VISITS  VOLTAIRE  AND  ROUS- 
SEAU.— CORSICA. —  PASCAL  PAOLI. — CORSICAN  HISTORY  AND 

JOURNAL. — WALPOLE'S  AND  GRAY'S  CRITICISM. — DEDICATION 
OF  THE  BOOK. — VISIT  TO  MR.  PITT. — CORRESPONDENCE  WITH 
TEMPLE  RESUMED. — BOSWELL  ON  THE  CLERICAL  CHARACTER 
AND  BACHELORSHIP. — MARRIAGE. — PROGRESS  IN  THE  LAW. 
— CONTEMPLATES  MATRIMONY. — ZELIDE. — A  SCOTCH  LASS. — 
— WRITES  TO  LORD  CHATHAM. — THE  DOUGLAS  CAUSE. — PRO- 
FESSIONAL BUSINESS. — MISS  BLAIR. — ROUGH  NOTES  FOR  A 
CONVERSATION. — TEMPLE  MARRIES. 

A  WINTER  was  devoted  by  Boswell  to  Utrecht ;  how 
much  to  study,  and  how  much  to  various  dissipations, 
need  not  form  matter  of  deep  speculation.  He  then 
proceeded  on  his  travels,  visiting  Germany,  Switzer- 
land, Italy,  Corsica,  Paris,  and  returned  early  in  1766 
to  London. 

Two  letters  of  Boswell,  written  during  this  foreign 
tour  to  Sir  Andrew  Mitchell,  have  been  published, 
and  will  be  found  in  the  interesting  Memoir  of  that 
Minister.  As  the  editor  of  the  work  mentioned  be- 


50  LETTERS    OF    BOS  WELL. 

low  remarks,*  these  letters  are  very  characteristic  of 
Boswell;f  and  he  adds,  that  "Boswell's  father,  the 
Lord  Auchinleck,  so  well  known  to  all  readers  of  the 
most  entertaining  biography  on  record,  seems  to  have 
been  pretty  much  of  the  opinion  of  Lord  Burleigh  on 
the  subject  of  foreign  travel,  who,  in  his  letter  of  ad- 
vice to  his  son,  says,  '  Suffer  not  thy  sons  to  pass  the 
Alps,  for  they  shall  have  nothing  there  but  pride, 
blasphemy,  and  atheism.  And  if  they  travel,  they  get 
a  few  broken  languages  that  shall  profit  them  nothing 
more  than  to  have  one  meat  served  in  diverse  dishes.' ' 
These  letters  are  here  subjoined. 

MR.  BOSWELL  TO  MR.  MITCHELL. 

13.]  28^  August,  1764. 

You  may  believe,  Sir,  that  I  was  a  good  deal  sur- 
prised to  hear  upon  my  return  to  Berlin  that  onze 
Gezant\  was  gone.  There  was  indeed  a  surmise  at 
Brunswick  that  you  intended  to  return  to  England 
this  season.  I  was  asked  if  it  was  true,  and  very  in- 
nocently affirmed  that  there  was  nothing  in  it.  I  find 
however  that  when  a  man  leaves  a  Minister  at  a  foreign 
Court  but  for  a  fortnight,  he  is  not  sure  of  finding  him 

*  Memoirs  and  Papers  of  Sir  Andrew  Mitchell,  K.B.,  Envoy  Ex- 
traordinary and  Minister  Plenipotentiary  from  the  Court  of  Great 
Britain  to  the  Court  of  Prussia  from  1756  to  17713  edited  by  An- 
drew Bisset,  Esq.,  vol.  ii.  p.  381. 

f  The  reader  will  moreover  perceive  that  the  second  letter  to  Sir 
Andrew  bears  upon  the  matter  of  the  Temple  family,  for  whom  Bos- 
well  interests  himself. 

J  Dutch  for  "  our  Envoy." 


LETTER   TO    MR.  MITCHELL.  51 

upon  his  return.  Your  departure  is  a  good  deal  unlucky 
for  me,  not  only  as  it  deprives  me  of  conversation  which 
gave  me  uncommon  pleasure,  and  invariably  accus- 
tomed me  to  rational  thinking  and  honourable  senti- 
ment, but  because  I  now  particularly  stand  in  need  of 
your  prudent  and  kind  counsel  with  respect  to  my 
travels.  I  have  had  another  letter  from  my  father,  in 
which  he  continues  of  opinion  that  travelling  is  of  very 
little  use,  and  may  do  a  great  deal  of  harm.  I  shall 
not  repeat  what  I  have  formerly  said  of  my  father's 
particular  character ;  I  say  particular,  for  rarely  will 
you  find  a  man  of  so  excellent  a  frame  of  body  and  so 
noble  a  mind  as  to  have  passed  through  life  with  uni- 
form propriety  of  conduct.*  For  my  own  part,  I  own 
that  I  am  not  such  a  favourite  of  nature.  Think  not 
that  I  intend  to  plead  machinery,  and  escape  from 
the  censure  due  to  the  faults  which  I  have  committed. 
I  only  would  have  you  consider  that  judgment  is  a 
natural  gift,  as  well  as  imagination  and  force  of  mind 
is  in  a  great  measure  independent  of  our  endeavours : 
think  of  me  as  I  am,  and  pronounce  accordingly.  I 
esteem  and  love  my  father,  and  I  am  determined  to 
do  what  is  in  my  power  to  make  him  easy  and  happy ; 
but  you  will  allow  that  I  may  endeavour  to  make 
him  happy  and  at  the  same  time  not  be  too  hard  upon 
myself.  I  must  use  you  so  much  with  the  freedom 
of  a  friend  as  to  tell  you  that,  with  the  vivacity 
which  you  allowed  me,  I  have  a  melancholy  dispo- 
sition. To  escape  from  the  gloom  of  dark  specula- 
*  The  sense  of  this  compliment  is  not  very  obvious. 

E2 


52  LETTERS    OF    BOSVVELL. 

tion,  I  have  made  excursions  into  the  fields  of  amuse- 
ment, perhaps  of  folly.  I  have  found  that  amusement 
and  folly  are  beneath  me,  and  that  without  some  laud- 
able pursuit  my  life  must  be  insipid  and  wearisome ; 
I  therefore  took  the  resolution  of  leaving  London,  and 
settled  myself  for  the  winter  at  Utrecht,  where  I  reco- 
vered my  inclination  for  study  and  rational  thinking. 
I  then  laid  my  account  with  travelling  for  a  couple  of 
years,  but  I  found  my  father's  views  to  be  entirely 
different.  You  saw  the  letter  which  I  wrote  him  from 
this,  and  I  flatter  myself  that  you  approved  of  it.  I 
cannot  expect  his  answer  for  some  weeks ;  in  the 
meantime  he  tells  me  .that  he  would  not  oppose  my 
passing  another  winter  at  Utrecht,  so  that  he  does  not 
grudge  the  time  which  I  ask.  As  for  the  money,  I 
should  think  for  one  year  a  little  extraordinary  expense 
is  not  thrown  away,  when  it  is  also  to  be  considered 
that  what  I  spend  now  I  shall  not  have  some  years 
hence.  My  father  seems  much  against  my  going  to 
Italy,  but  gives  me  leave  to  go  from  there  and  pass 
some  months  in  Paris.  I  own  that  the  words  of  the 
Apostle  Paul, "  I  must  see  Rome,"  are  strongly  borne 
in  upon  my  mind ;  it  would  give  me  infinite  pleasure ; 
it  would  give  me  talk  for  a  lifetime,  and  I  should  go 
home  to  Auchinleck  with  serene  contentment.  I  am 
no  libertine,  and  have  a  moral  certainty  of  suffering 
no  harm  in  Italy ;  I  can  also  assure  you  that  I  shall 
be  as  moderate  as  possible  in  my  expenses.  I  do  not 
intend  to  travel  as  Mi  Lord  Anglois,  but  merely  as  a 
scholar  and  a  man  of  elegant  curiosity,  and  I  am-  told 


PLAN    OF   THE    TOUR.  53 

that  in  that  character  I  may  live  in  Italy  very  reason- 
ably. I  obviate  your  objection  of  my  being  obliged  to 
live  like  others,  by  assuring  you  that  I  have  none  of 
that  second-rate  ambition  which  actuates  most  young 
men  of  fortune  upon  their  travels.  After  passing  four 
months  on  classic  ground,  I  would  come  through 
France,  and  go  home,  as  I  said  to  my  father,  uti  con- 
viva  satur. 

Now,  Sir,  tell  me  fairly  if  I  am  unreasonable.  Upon 
my  honour,  I  cannot  think  that  I  am.  I  give  you  my 
word  that  my  father's  inclinations  shall  be  as  inviolable 
laws  to  his  son  ;  but  don't  you  think  that  I  may  just 
remonstrate  before  I  consider  an  act  as  passed  ?  Don't 
you  think  that,  rather  than  go  home  contrary  to  what 
I  much  desire,  and  cannot  help  thinking  very  proper, 
— don't  you  think  it  worth  while  to  humour  me  so  far 
as  to  allow  me  my  year  and  a  reasonable  sum,  after 
which  I  return  clear  and  contented,  without  any  pre- 
tence for  my  stormy  disposition  to  murmur  at?  I 
would  beg,  Sir,  that  you  may  write  to  my  father  your 
opinion  as  to  this  matter,  and  put  it  in  the  light  which 
you  may  think  it  deserves.  In  the  meantime,  I  can  see 
little  advantage  to  be  had  at  Berlin.  I  shall  however 
remain  here  a  fortnight,  after  which  I  intend  passing 
by  Mannheim,  and  one  or  two  more  of  the  German 
Courts,  to  Geneva ;  I  am  then  at  the  point  from  whence 
I  may  either  steer  to  Italy  or  to  France.  I  shall  see 
Voltaire ;  I  shall  also  see  Switzerland  and  Rousseau : 
these  two  men  are  to  me  greater  objects  than  most 
statues  or  pictures. 


54  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

I  take  this  opportunity  to  assure  the  loved  and  re- 
spected friend  of  my  father  that  I  am  sincerely  happy 
at  having  obtained  his  acquaintance.  I  would  hope 
that  I  shall  not  be  found  unworthy  of  his  regard,  and 
I  wish  very  honestly  for  an  opportunity  of  showing 
my  real  esteem  for  such  a  character  as  I  could  draw  to 
anybody  else  but  to  himself. 

I  am,  Sir,  your  obliged,  humble  servant, 

J.  B. 

I  would  be  much  obliged  to  you  for  an  answer  as 
soon  as  you  are  at  leisure  to  write. 


The  next  letter  relates  to  the  affairs  referred  to  al- 
ready in  the  letters  to  Temple,  and,  although  as  ridi- 
culous in  expression  as  Boswell  even  could  make  it,  is 
very  creditable  to  his  amiability ;  it  shows  too  that  he 
exerted  himself  to  help  the  father  of  his  friend  in  his 
adversity.  Upon  this  letter  Mr.  Bisset  truly  remarks, 
that  not  only  does  he  natter  his  correspondent  judi- 
ciously, but  he  compliments  himself  in  no  small  de- 
gree, and  "  one  fancies  that  one  can  see  in  these  letters 
the  germ  of  the  future  most  lively  biographer  of  John- 
son." The  editor  of  the  Mitchell  Papers  rightly  sup- 
posed it  would  not  be  interesting  to  his  readers  to  see 
the  names  of  Temple  and  his  family  in  his  collection, 
and  he  has  therefore  excluded  them.  The  letter  runs 
thus : — 


LETTERS  TO  MR.  MITCHELL.  55 

MR.  BOSWELL  TO  MR.  MITCHELL. 

14.]  Geneva,  December  Zbth,  1764. 

Dear  Sir, 

I  thank  you  for  your  letter  from  Spa,  although  it 
gave  me  no  great  encouragement  in  iny  scheme  of 
going  to  Italy.  You  tell  me  gravely  to  follow  the 
plan  which  my  father  prescribes,  whatever  it  may  be; 
and  in  doing  so  I  shall  certainly  act  most  wisely.  I 
forgive  you  this,  for  I  say  just  the  same  to  young 
people  when  I  advise.  To  enter  into  a  detail  of  the 
little  circumstances  which  compose  the  felicity  of  an- 
other, is  what  a  man  of  any  genius  can  hardly  submit 
to.  We  therefore  give  a  good,  wholesome,  general 
counsel;  and  he  who  consults  us  thinks  a  little,  and 
then  endeavours  to  take  his  own  way  as  well  as  he 
can.  I  have  however  the  happiness  to  inform  you 
that  my  father  has  consented  that  I  shall  go  to  Italy. 
Upon  my  soul,  I  am  grateful  to  the  most  worthy  of 
men :  it  will  be  hard  if  we  are  not  well  together,  for 
I  love  him  with  the  strongest  affection.  If  I  find  that 
I  cannot  succeed  in  my  own  plans,  in  such  a  way  as 
to  convince  my  father  that  I  am  in  the  right,  I  shall 
do  my  utmost  to  fulfil  the  plan  beyond  which  he  can- 
not think  to  look.  You  may  suppose  what  my  ideas 
are,  for  they  are  of  your  old  acquaintances.  One  thing 
I  am  sure  of,  and,  by  the  undisguised  honour  of  a 
man  of  probity,  I  swear,  shall  chiefly  influence  me, — 
a  regard  to  the  happiness  of  him  to  whom  I  owe  so 
much.  Believe  me,  I  have  a  soul. 

The  intention  of  this  letter  is  to  beg  your  interest  in 


56  LETTERS    OF    BOS  WELL. 

an  affair  which  I  have  much  at  heart.  My  most  inti- 
mate friend,  the  friend  of  my  youth  and  the  comfort 
of  my  being,  is  a  Mr.  Temple,  of  Trinity  Hall,  Cam- 
bridge. He  is  an  Englishman,  and  I  am  an  old  Scot ; 
but  brothers  were  never  more  united  than  we  are. 

His  father  was  formerly  Mayor  of .     He  had  an 

employment  in  the  Customs,  but  by  misfortune  be- 
came bankrupt  a  year  or  two  ago.  My  friend  had  a 
small  estate  from  his  mother ;  he  has  generously  con- 
tributed more  than  the  half  of  it  towards  the  relief  of 
his  father,  and  has  got  the  creditors  to  be  satisfied; 
but  his  father  has  nothing  to  live  upon.  He  under- 
stands business  very  well.  An  employment  of  mode- 
rate income  in  the  Customs,  or  in  one  of  the  public 
offices,  would  make  him  happy.  His  youngest  son  was 
Lieutenant  in  the  regiment  of  the  late  General  — — , 
who  was  a  friend  of  the  family,  and  promised  to  take 
care  of  the  young  man.  The  regiment  has  been  broken 
up  some  time.  The  Lieutenant  is  on  half-pay,  and 
must  have  a  part  of  the  little  fortune  which  his  bro- 
ther still  possesses.  Surely  it  would  be  no  very  hard 
matter  to  get  him  put  upon  full  pay. 

Sir,  I  beg  and  entreat  of  you  to  give  me  your  interest. 
You  are  the  only  man  in  Britain,  except  my  Sovereign, 
whom  I  would  ask  a  favour  of.  I  know  you  to  be  a 
man  of  the  most  perfect  honour ;  and  I  know  not  an- 
other who  has  been  tried  in  public  life.  I  have  written 
to  Lady  Northumberland  ;  but  I  confess  I  have  little 
confidence  in  her;  and,  believe  me,  I  have  not  been 
mean  enough  to  flatter  her.  Pray  tell  me  how  much 


BOSWELL'S  TOUR.  57 

you  can  do.  If  you  can  aid  me,  you  will  most  truly 
oblige  a  worthy  fellow,  for  such  lam.  Were  I  as  rich 
as  I  shall  probably  be,  the  father  and  brother  of  my 
friend  should  not  be  as  they  are. 

Adieu,  respected  Sir. 

BOSWELL. 

I  am  very  anxious  as  to  this  affair.     Pray  write  to 
me  "  Aux  soins  de,  etc.  etc.,  a  Geneve,  etc.  etc." 


Whether  these  curious  letters  were  productive  of 
the  good  effects  Boswell  desired,  is  unfortunately 
now  undiscoverable.  Boswell  visited  different  parts 
of  the  Netherlands;  proceeded  thence  to  Germany, 
Switzerland,  Italy,  Corsica,  returning  by  Paris.  "  I 
dare  to  call  this  a  spirited  tour ;  I  dare  to  challenge 
your  approbation,"  he  exclaims  to  Dr.  Johnson,  in  a 
letter  which  the  writer  modestly  describes,  twenty 
years  afterwards,  as  "  full  of  generous  enthusiasm."* 

In  his  passion  for  knowing  and  being  known  to 
celebrated  persons,  Boswell  sought  out,  on  his  tour, 
both  Voltaire  and  Rousseau,  and,  to  his  intense  de- 
light, was  received  by  both  these  famous  men.  The 
most  important  event  of  his  travels  however  was  his 
visit  to  Corsica,  and  the  acquaintance  he  there  made 
with  Pascal  Paoli.  This  latter  event  seems  almost 
to  have  turned  his  head.  However  he  was  relieved 
to  some  extent  after  he  had  been  delivered  of  his  work 
upon  Corsica,  which  comprised  two  portions, — his 

*  See  'Life  of  Johnson/  anno  1765. 


58  LETTERS    OF    BOS  WELL. 

'  History'  and  his  .'  Journal.'  "  Your  History,"  writes 
Johnson  to  the  happy  author,*  "  is  like  other  histories, 
but  your  Journal  is  in  a  very  high  degree  curious 
and  delightful.  There  is  between  the  History  and 
the  Journal  that  difference  which  there  will  always  be 
found  between  notions  borrowed  from  without  and 
notions  generated  from  within.  Your  History  was 
copied  from  books ;  your  Journal  rose  out  of  your  own 
experience  and  observation.  You  express  images 
which  operated  strongly  upon  yourself,  and  you  have 
impressed  them  with  great  force  upon  your  readers. 
I  know  not  whether  I  could  name  any  narrative  by 
which  curiosity  is  better  excited  or  better  gratified." 

It  would  seem  that  he  had,  previous  to  the  publica- 
tion of  the  book,  favoured  the  Doctor  a  little  too  much 
with  his  talk  about  Corsica,  and  what  he  was  going 
to  write.  He  had  however,  he  says,  been  "encou- 
raged "  by  Johnson's  telling  him,  in  reference  to  his  in- 
tended publication,  that,  although  he  could  not  "go 
to  the  bottom  of  the  subject,"  yet "  all  that  you  tell 
us  will  be  new  to  us  :  give  us  as  many  anecdotes  as 
you  can."  The  History  is  indeed  a  dull  and  weak 
essay,  and  justifies  the  postscript  which  Dr.  Johnson 
adds  to  a  letter :f  "As  to  your  'History  of  Corsica,' 
you  have  no  materials  which  others  have  not  or  may 
not  have.  You  have  somehow  or  other  warmed  your 
imagination.  I  wish  there  were  some  cure,  like  the 
Lover's  Leap,  for  all  heads  of  which  some  single  idea 
has  obtained  an  unreasonable  and  irregular  posses- 
*  September  9,  1769.  f  August  10,  1766. 


HISTORY    OF    CORSICA.  59 

sion.  Mind  your  own  affairs,  and  leave  the  Corsicans 
to  theirs."  And  at  a  later  date,*  after  reproaching 
Boswell  for  publishing  part  of  one  of  his  letters  with- 
out leave,  he  tells  him  to  empty  his  "  head  of  Corsica," 
which  has  filled  it  too  long.  To  this  sensible  ad- 
monition the  Doctor's  correspondent  replies,!  "  How 
can  you  bid  me  'empty  my  head  of  Corsica'?  My 
noble-minded  friend,  do  you  not  feel  for  an  oppressed 
nation  bravely  struggling  to  be  free.  .  .  .  Empty  my 
head  of  Corsica !  Empty  it  of  honour,  empty  it  of 
humanity,  empty  it  of  friendship,  empty  it  of  piety  !" 
He  might  have  added,  empty  it  of  vanity  and  supply 
it  with  sense,  for  his  follies  and  vagaries  upon  this 
subject  appear  to  have  been  excessive  even  for  Bos- 
well.  In  spite  of  his  ludicrous  Corsican  extravagances, 
—enough  almost  to  have  sunk  his  book  beneath  the 
ridicule  of  his  acquaintance  and  the  literary  world, — 
it  is  undoubted  that  his  marvellous  gift  of  giving  in- 
teresting representations  of  others,  while  he  exposed 
himself  to  contempt  and  ridicule,  was  displayed  in 
his  Journal.  This  part  of  the  Work  indeed  excited 
considerable  attention,  and  is  even  now  very  amusing. 
Walpole,  in  writing  to  Gray  (February  18,  1768),  thus 
speaks  of  it : — 

"  Pray  read  the  new  account  of  Corsica ;  what  re- 
lates to  Paoli  will  amuse  you  much.  There  is  a  deal 
about  the  island  and  its  divisions  that  one  does  not 
care  a  straw  for.  The  author,  Boswell,  is  a  strange 
being,  and,  like  Cambridge,  has  a  rage  for  knowing 
*  March  23,  1768.  f  April  26,  1768. 


60  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

anybody  that  ever  was  talked  of.  He  forced  himself 
upon  me  in  spite  of  my  teeth  and  my  doors,  and  I 
see  has  given  a  foolish  account  of  all  he  could  pick  up 
from  me  about  King  Theodore.  He  then  took  an 
antipathy  to  me  on  Rousseau's  account,  abused  me  in 
the  newspapers,  and  expected  Rousseau  to  do  so  too  ; 
but  as  he  came  to  see  me  no  more,  I  forgave  all  the 
rest.  I  see  he  now  is  a  little  sick  of  Rousseau  him- 
self, but  I  hope  it  will  not  cure  him  of  his  anger  to 
me;  however  his  book  will  amuse  you." 

To  this  Gray,  in  his  reply  of  February  25th,  1768, 
says : — "  Mr.  Boswell's  book  I  was  going  to  recom- 
mend to  you  when  I  received  your  letter.  It  has 
pleased  and  moved  me  strangely;  all  (I  mean)  that 
relates  to  Paoli.  The  pamphlet  proves  what  I  have 
always  maintained,  that  any  fool  may  write  a  most  va- 
luable book  by  chance,  if  he  will  only  tell  us  what  he 
heard  and  said  with  veracity.  Of  Mr.  Boswell's  truth 
I  have  not  the  least  suspicion,  because  I  am  sure  he 
could  invent  nothing  of  the  kind.  The  title  of  this 
part  of  his  work  is  a  Dialogue  between  a  Green  Goose 
and  a  Hero."  The  "veracity"  of  the  Journal  indeed 
is  vouched  for  not  only  by  Boswell  himself,  who  de- 
clares that  he  wrote  the  most  literal  account  of  what 
he  saw  and  did,  but  also  by  the  same  characteristic 
traits  which  have  given  his  '  Life  of  Johnson'  its  fame. 
Some  of  his  conversations  with  Paoli,  which  of  course 
had  still  more  interest  at  the  time  when  the  Corsican 
patriot  was  in  every  man's  mind,  have  the  true  Bos- 
wellian  \irtue.  The  personal  adventures  of  the  tourist 


CORSICAN    JOURNAL.  61 

only  increase  our  astonishment,  notwithstanding  Gray's 
opinion  of  its  easy  accomplishment,  that  such  a  "  fool" 
could  appreciate  and  reproduce  the  Dialogues,  or  ever 
had  the  opportunity  afforded  him  of  doing  so  by  Paoli 
and  his  friends.*  "  Before  I  was  accustomed  to  Cor- 
sica," says  he,  "  I  sometimes  forgot  myself,  and,  imagin- 
ing I  was  in  a  public-house,  called  for  what  I  wanted 
with  the  tone  which  one  uses  in  calling  to  a  waiter  at  a 
tavern.  I  did  so  at  Pino,  asking  for  a  variety  of  things 
at  once,  when  Signora  Tomasi,  perceiving  my  mistake, 
smiled,  saying,  with  much  calmness  and  good-nature, 
'  One  thing  after  another,  Sir."3  He  mentions  also  a 
curious  circumstance  with  respect  to  himself,  that,  after 
talking  with  the  General  some  time,  "  my  timidity  wore 
off;  I  no  longer  thought  of  myself."f  He  has  recorded 
the  like  effect  when  conversing  with  Dr.  Johnson,  and 
there  is  no  reason  to  doubt  either  statement.  Again 
he  tells  us,  "  Every  day  I  felt  myself  happier.  I  had 
my  chocolate  served  upon  a  silver  salver  adorned  with 
the  arms  of  Corsica."  He  seems  not  unfrequently  to 
have  confided  to  Paoli  portions  of  autobiography,  espe- 
cially with  regard  to  a  topic  with  which  we  know  he  in- 
dulged Dr.  Johnson,  viz.  on  hypochondria,  a  complaint, 
it  would  appear,  he  was  rather  proud  of.  He  thus 
makes  his  confession  on  one  occasion : — "  With  a  mind 
naturally  inclined  to  melancholy  and  a  keen  desire  of 
inquiry,  I  had  intensely  applied  myself  to  metaphysical 
research,  and  reasoned  beyond  my  depth.  ...  I  told 
him  I  had  almost  become  for  ever  incapable  of  taking 
*  '  Journal '  (second  edit.),  p.  277.  f  Ibid.,  p.  295. 


62  LETTERS   OF    BOSWELL. 

a  part  in  active  life."  Probably  his  "  timidity  had  quite 
worn  off"  at  the  time  of  this  interesting  acknowledg- 
ment ;  and  assuredly  his  melancholy  did  not  possess 
him  when,  on  a  convivial  occasion  with  some  of  his 
Corsican  friends,  he  amused  them  and  himself  in 
noble  song :  "  I  sang  '  Hearts  of  Oak  are  our  ships/ 
etc.  I  fancied  myself  to  be  a  recruiting  sea-officer ; 
I  fancied  all  my  chorus  of  Corsicans  aboard  the 
British  Fleet."*  One  more  passage  from  the  'Tour' 
must  not  be  omitted : — "  One  day  when  I  rode  out  I 
was  mounted  on  Paoli's  own  horse,  with  rich  furni- 
ture of  crimson  velvet  with  broad  gold  lace,  and  had 
my  guards  marching  along  with  me,  I  allowed  myself 
to  indulge  in  a  momentary  pride  in  this  parade,  as  I 
was  curious  to  experience  what  would  really  be  the 
pleasure  of  state  and  distinction  with  which  all  man- 
kind are  so  strangely  intoxicated.  ...  I  became  a 
great  favourite  among  the  peasants  and  soldiers.  I 
got  a  Corsican  dress  made,  in  which  I  walked  about 
with  an  air  of  true  satisfaction."  The  dress  here  re- 
ferred to  was  probably  the  one  in  which  he  afterwards 
occasionally  paraded  on  his  return  to  England. 

An  example  of  the  stilted  style  of  writing  adopted 
by  Mr.  Boswell  at  times,  may  be  seen  in  the  Dedica- 
tion to  his  '  Account  of  Corsica.'  It  may  be  noticed, 
that  in  the  Preface  to  the  Work  he  desires  that  his 
orthography  should  be  faithfully  preserved  in  all  the 
future  reprints  which  he  believed  the  world  might  re- 
quire. He  had  especially  at  heart  the  final  k  in  words 
*  'Journal,'  p.  321. 


PASCAL    PAOLI.  63 

like  puttick,  panegyrick ;  accordingly  this  request  has 
here  been  piously  complied  with.  The  Dedication  is 
as  follows : — 

"  DEDICATION 

TO 
PASCAL  PAOLI, 

GENERAL  OF 
THE  CORSICANS. 

"Sir, 

"Dedications  are  for  most  part  the  offerings  of 
interested  servility,  or  the  effusions  of  partial  zeal ; 
enumerating  the  virtues  of  men  in  whom  no  virtues 
can  be  found,  or  predicting  greatness  to  those  who 
afterwards  pass  their  days  in  unambitious  indolence, 
and  die  leaving  no  memorial  of  their  existence  but  a 
dedication,  in  which  all  their  merit  is  confessedly  fu- 
ture, and  which  time  has  turned  into  a  silent  reproach. 

"He  who  has  any  experience  of  mankind  will  be 
cautious  to  whom  he  dedicates.  Publickly  to  bestow 
praise  on  merit  of  which  the  publick  is  not  sensible, 
or  to  raise  flattering  expectations  which  are  never  ful- 
filled, must  sink  the  character  of  an  authour,  and  make 
him  appear  a  cringing  parasite,  or  a  fond  enthusiast. 

"  I  am  under  no  apprehensions  of  that  nature,  when 
I  inscribe  this  book  to  Pascal  Paoli.  Your  virtues, 
Sir,  are  universally  acknowledged;  they  dignify  the 
pages  which  I  venture  to  present  to  you;  and  it  is 
my  singular  felicity  that  my  book  is  the  voucher  of 
its  Dedication. 

"  In  thus  addressing  you,  my  intention  is  not  to  at- 


64  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

tempt  your  panegyrick.  That  may  in  some  measure 
be  collected  from  my  imperfect  labours.  But  I  wish 
to  express  to  the  world,  the  admiration  and  gratitude 
with  which  you  have  inspired  me. 

"  This,  Sir,  is  all  the  return  that  I  can  make  for  the 
many  favours  you  have  deigned  to  confer  upon  me.  I 
entreat  you  to  receive  it  as  a  testimony  of  my  disposi- 
tion. I  regret  that  I  have  neither  power  nor  interest 
to  enable  me  to  render  any  essential  service  to  you  and 
the  brave  Corsicans.  I  can  only  assure  you  of  the 
most  fervent  wishes  of  a  private  gentleman.  I  have 
the  honour  to  be,  with  all  respect  and  affection, 

"Sir, 
"  Your  ever  devoted, 

"  Obliged,  humble  servant, 

"AucUnleck,  Ayrshire,  "JAMES   BOSWELL." 

"29  October,  1767." 


Boswell's  acquaintance  with  Paoli  was  not  only  the 
cause  of  the  book  being  written,  but  enabled  the  en- 
thusiastic Scotchman  to  visit  and  enter  into  corre- 
spondence with  various  great  men  : — amongst  others, 
he  thus  honoured  Mr.  Pitt.  Arrayed  in  the  Corsican 
costume,  he  forced  his  way  to  Mr.  Pitt,  and  we  find 
in  the  Pitt  correspondence  the  following  letter.* 

St.  James's  Street,  Feb.  19,  1766. 
Sir, 

I  have  the  honour  to  receive  your  most  obliging 
*  Chatham  Correspondence,  vol.  ii.,  p.  388. 


CORRESPONDENCE    WITH    PITT.  65 

letter,  and  can  with  difficulty  restrain  myself  from 
paying  you  compliments  on  the  very  genteel  manner  in 
which  you  are  pleased  to  treat  me.  But  I  come  from 
a  people*  among  whom  even  the  lowest  arts  of  insi- 
nuation are  unknown.  However  you  may  by  political 
circumstances  be  in  one  view  a  simple  individual,  yet, 
Sir,  Mr.  Pitt  will  always  be  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
brave,  the  secretary  of  freedom  and  of  spirit ;  and  I 
hope  that  I  may  with  propriety  talk  to  him  of  the 
views  of  the  illustrious  Paoli.  Be  that  as  it  may,  I 
shall  very  much  value  the  honour  of  being  admitted 
to  your  acquaintance. 

I  am,  with  the  highest  esteem, 

Your  most  obedient  servant, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


Boswell's  father  was  by  no  means  pleased  with  the 
result  of  his  son's  travelling,  nor  did  he  sympathize 
with  his  tastes  or  conduct  any  more  after  than  before 
the  Utrecht  studies  and  the  European  tour.  Neither 
Paoli  nor  Johnson  excited  his  veneration  in  the  slight- 
est degree.  He  asserted,  according  to  the  well-known 
anecdote,  that  "There's  nae  hope  for  Jamie,  mon; 
Jamie  is  gaen  clean  gyte.  What  do  you  think,  mon  ? 
He 's  done  with  Paoli,  he 's  off  wi'  the  land-louping 

*  Boswell  should  have  remembered,  before  he  used  this  phrase, 
Dr.  Johnson's  sneer  on  their  first  introduction.  Mr.  Pitt  is  here  left 
in  doubt,  by  the  language  employed,  whether  Boswell  is  describing 
Corsica  or  Scotland. 

F 


66  LETTERS    OF   BOS  WELL. 

scoundrel  of  a  Corsican ;  and  whose  tail  do  you  think 
he  has  pinned  himself  to  now,  mon?  A  dominie, 
mon,  an  auld  dominie ;  he  keepit  a  schule  and  cau'd 
it  an  acaudemy."  The  old  gentleman  however  lived 
to  modify  this  opinion,  as  will  be  seen  later  in  the 
volume. 

Boswell  returned  to  London  in  February,  1766, 
and  was  able  to  enjoy  the  society  of  his  friend  Temple 
again.  He  records  that  during  his  stay  there  he  pre- 
sented his  "old  and  most  intimate  friend  the  Rev. 
Mr.  Temple,  then  of  Cambridge,"  to  Dr.  Johnson. 
This  occurred  at  the  '  Mitre,'  and  Mr.  Temple  was  in- 
dulged, as  it  would  seem,  with  a  very  fair  specimen  of 
the  rough  way  in  which  poor  Boswell  and  his  opinions 
were  occasionally  treated  by  the  Doctor.  The  suc- 
ceeding year  the  correspondence  with  Mr.  Temple  was 
resumed.  The  letters  which  here  follow  contain  mat- 
ter which  does  not  put  the  writer  of  them  in  a  very 
becoming  attitude;  but  the  points  referred  to  in  them 
are  closely  connected  with  subjects  which  Boswell 
much  delighted  to  discuss  with  the  Doctor  and  other 
eminent  men,  and  which  occupy  considerable  space  in 
the  '  Life  of  Johnson.'  It  is  therefore  desirable  to  know 
what  BoswelTs  private  views  and  practices  really  were ; 
for  truthful  as  for  the  most  part  his  representations  of 
what  was  said  and  meant  may  be,  yet  some  prejudices 
and  colouring,  drawn  from  his  own  character,  were  not 

unfrequently  imparted  to  his  writings.*     If  any  fur- 

i 

*  This  has  been  well  shown  in  respect  to  Goldsmith  by  Mr.  For- 
ster,  in  his  '  Life  and  Times  of  Oliver  Goldsmith.' 


THE    CLERICAL    CHARACTER.  67 

ther  apology  is  required  for  presenting  such  extraordi- 
nary letters  to  the  reader,  he  must  be  referred  to  the 
Introduction  to  this  volume ;  and  if  it  is  still  thought 
by  some  that  it  were  better  not  to  have  printed  these 
evidences  of  Boswell's  folly,  all  that  can  be  said  in 
reply  is,  that  although  this  may  be  so,  it  is  a  matter 
of  opinion  which  every  one  must  form  for  himself. 


16.]  Edinburgh,  1st  February,  1767. 

My  dear  Temple, 

When  I  see  lying  before  me  your  last  letter,  dated 
the  2nd  of  December,  and  consider  how  long  a  time 
has  passed  without  any  communication  between  us,  I 
am  filled  with  wonder  and  regret ;  but  I  think  both 
of  us  are  so  far  arrived  in  the  knowledge  of  human 
nature  that  we  can  calmly  contemplate  the  vicissitudes 
of  our  own  minds,  and,  without  fretting  at  our  imper- 
fections, can  be  sorry  for  them,  while  we  are  supported 
and  cheered  by  the  consciousness  of  our  good  qua- 
lities. 

I  am  sincerely  happy  that  you  are  at  length  the 
Reverend  Mr.  Temple.  I  view  the  profession  of  a  cler- 
gyman in  an  amiable  and  respectable  light.  Don't  be 
moved  by  declamations  against  ecclesiastical  history, 
as  if  that  could  blacken  the  sacred  Order.  I  confess 
that  it  is  not  in  ecclesiastical  history  that  we  find  the 
most  agreeable  account  of  divines ;  their  politics,  their 
ambition,  and  their  cruelty  are  there  displayed;  but 
remember,  Temple,  you  are  there  reading  the  vices 

Y  2 


68  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

of  only  political  divines, — of  such  individuals  as  in  so 
numerous  a  body  have  been  very  unworthy  members 
of  the  Church,  and  should  have  rather  been  em- 
ployed in  the  rudest  secular  concerns.  But  if  you 
would  judge  fairly  of  the  priests  of  Jesus,  you  must 
consider  how  many  of  the  distressed  they  have  com- 
forted, how  many  of  the  wicked  they  have  reclaimed, 
how  many  of  the  good  they  have  improved ;  consider 
the  lives  of  thousands  of  worthy,  pious  divines  who 
have  been  a  blessing  to  their  parishes.  This  is  just, 
Temple.  You  say  the  truths  of  morality  are  written 
in  the  hearts  of  all  men,  and  they  find  it  their  interest 
to  practise  them.  My  dear  friend,  will  you  believe  a 
specious  moral  essayist  against  your  own  experience  ? 
Don't  you  in  the  very  same  letter  complain  of  the 
wickedness  of  those  around  you  ?  Don't  you  talk  of 
the  tares  in  society  ?  My  friend,  it  is  your  office  to 
labour  cheerfully  in  the  vineyard,  and,  if  possible,  to 
leave  not  a  tare  in  Mamhead.*  You  are  tempted  to 
join  Rousseau  in  preferring  the  savage  state :  I  am  so 
too,  at  times.  When  jaded  with  business,  or  when  tor- 
mented with  the  passions  of  civilized  life,  I  could  fly  to 
the  woods,  nay  I  could  f  on  the  face  of  a  moun- 

tain, were  it  possible  for  me  to  be  conscious  of  it  and 
to  brave  the  elements  by  glorious  insensibility.  But 
these  are  the  sallies  of  desperation.  Philosophy  teacheth 

*  In  Devonshire,  of  which  place  Mr.  Temple  was  perpetual  curate. 

f  Here  two  words  become  undecipherable  in  the  MS.,  and  what 
it  is  that  Mr.  Boswell  felt  he  could  do  "on  the  face  of  a  mountain  " 
must  unfortunately  be  left  in  entire  obscurity. 


ADVANTAGES    OF    MATRIMONY.  69 

us  to  be  moderate,  to  be  patient,  to  expect  a  gradual 
progress  of  refinement  and  felicity;  in  that  hope  I 
look  up  to  the  Lord  of  the  Universe,  with  a  grateful 
remembrance  of  the  grand  and  mysterious  propitiation 
which  Christianity  hath  announced. 

Thus  far  I  got  in  my  letter  before  breakfast ;  it  is 
now  late  in  the  evening  when  I  sit  down  again,  but  I 
sit  down  in  the  same  frame  in  which  I  parted  from 
you  in  the  morning.  In  a  word,  my  dear  Temple,  be 
a  good  clergyman,  and  you  will  be  happy  both  here 
and  hereafter. 

I  can  well  imagine  your  solitary  state  at  the  Rectory 
when  all  your  neighbours  are  gone  to  town,  and  in 
such  a  winter  too.  I  hope  you  read  Thomson,  and 
make  the  clouds  and  storms 

"  Exalt  the  soul  to  solemn  thought 
And  heavenly  musing." 

You  may  however  look  forward  to  the  delights  of 
matrimony.  Such  an  institution  becomes  a  pious 
clergyman  :  I  cannot  think  of  it  while  my  father  lives ; 
his  notions  and  mine  are  so  different,  that  the  wife 
whom  I  would  choose  would  in  all  probability  be  very 
disagreeable  to  him.  If  he  does  not  marry  again, 
there  is  a  duty  upon  me  to  live  with  him  and  be  care- 
ful of  him.  His  character  is  such  that  he  must  have 
his  son  in  a  great  degree  of  subjection  to  him.  Were 
I  to  marry,  he  could  not  alter  his  ideas,  so  I  should 
be  in  a  most  awkward  state  between  the  subjection  of 
a  son  and  the  authority  of  a  father,  which  as  a  father 
and  as  the  master  I  ought  to  possess.  Perhaps  it 


70  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

would  be  better  for  a  man  in  my  situation  to  keep 
himself  free.  A  bachelor  has  an  easy  unconcerned  be- 
haviour, which  is  more  taking  with  the  generality  of  the 
world  than  the  behaviour  of  a  married  man  possibly 
can  be,  if  he  acts  in  character.  The  bachelor  has  a 
carelessness  of  disposition  which  pleases  everybody, 
and  everybody  thinks  him  a  sort  of  a  common  good, 
nunc  mihi,  nunc  aliis  benignus, — a  feather  which  flies 
about  and  lights  now  here,  now  there ;  and  accordingly 
the  connections  of  a  bachelor  are  always  most  exten- 
sive, whereas  a  married  man  has  a  settled  plan,  a  cer- 
tain degree  of  care,  and  has  his  affections  collected  by 
one  great  attachment,  and  therefore  he  cannot  be  such 
good  company  to  everybody  he  meets;  but  in  my 
opinion,  after  a  certain  time  of  life  a  man  is  not  so  de- 
sirous of  this  general  flutter,  the  mind  becomes  more 
composed,  and  requires  some  settled  satisfaction  on 
which  it  can  repose. 

I  am  sensible  that  everything  depends  on  the  light 
in  which  we  view  it,  and  nothing  more  so  than  mar- 
riage. If  you  think  of  that  weariness  which  must  at 
times  hang  over  every  kind  of  society,  those  disgusts 
and  vexations  which  will  happen  in  the  intercourse  of 
life,  you  will  be  frightened  to  take  upon  you  the  serious 
charge  of  the  father  of  a  family ;  but  if  you  think  of 
the  comforts  of  a  home,  where  you  are  a  sort  of  sove- 
reign, the  kind  endearments  of  an  amiable  woman,  who 
has  no  wish  but  to  make  you  happy,  the  amusement 
of  seeing  your  children  grow  up  from  infancy  to 
manhood,  and  the  pleasing  pride  of  being  the  father  of 


PROGRESS    IN    HIS    PROFESSION. 


71 


brave  and  learned  men,  all  which  may  be  the  case,  and 
depends  much  on  our  conduct  as  fathers,  then  mar- 
riage is  truly  the  condition  in  which  true  felicity  is  to 
be  found.  I  think  we  may  strike  a  good  medium. 
Let  us  keep  in  mind  the  nil  admirari,  and  not  expect 
too  much.  It  was  from  having  too  high  expectations 
of  enjoyment  that  I  suffered  so  much,  for  the  natural 
gloom  of  my  mind  was  not  sufficient  to  torment  me 
in  a  degree  so  acute.  In  the  meantime,  my  friend,  I 
am  happy  enough  to  have  a  dear  infidel,  as  you  say ; 
but  don't  think  her  unfaithful,  I  could  not  love  her  if 
she  was.  There  is  a  baseness  in  all  deceit  which  my 
soul  is  virtuous  enough  to  abhor,  and  therefore  I  look 
with  horror  on  adultery.  But  my  amiable  mistress  is 
no  longer  bound  to  him  who  was  her  husband :  he 
has  used  her  shockingly  ill ;  he  has  deserted  her,  he 
lives  with  another.  Is  she  not  then  free  ?  She  is, 
it  is  clear,  and  no  arguments  can  disguise  it.  She  is 
now  mine,  and  were  she  to  be  unfaithful  to  me  she 
ought  to  be  pierced  with  a  Corsican  poniard ;  but  I 
believe  she  loves  me  sincerely.  She  has  done  every- 
thing to  please  me:  she  is  perfectly  generous,  and 
would  not  hear  of  any  present. 

I  am  now  advancing  fast  in  the  law.  I  am  coming 
into  great  employment ;  I  have  this  winter  made  sixty- 
five  guineas,  which  is  a  considerable  sum  for  a  young 
man.  I  expect  that  this  year  I  shall  clear  above  a 
hundred  pieces. 

28M  February. — In  this  manner  I  have  travelled  on 
through  seven  folio  pages.  Every  day  I  have  intended 


72  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

to  close  my  letter,  and  every  night  I  have  felt  real  pain 
of  mind  to  think  that  I  had  not  done  it.  Your  kind 
favour  of  the  19th  current  is  just  arrived ;  it  rouses  me, 
and  now  I  am  resolved  to  give  no  longer  quarter  to  my 
indolence.  I  am  at  present  leading  the  strangest  life. 
You  know  one-half  of  the  business  before  the  Court 
of  Session  is  carried  on  by  writing.  In  the  first  in- 
stance, a  case  is  pleaded  before  the  Lord  Ordinary, 
that  is  to  say,  one  of  the  fifteen  Judges,  who  sits  in 
his  turn  for  a  week  in  the  Outer  House;  but  no 
sooner  does  he  give  judgment  than  we  give  him  in 
representations  and  answers,  and  replys  and  duplys 
and  tryplys ;  and  he  will  sometimes  order  memorials, 
to  give  him  a  full  view  of  the  case.  Then  we  reclaim 
to  the  Inner  House  by  petition ;  and  then  we  give  in 
a  variety  of  printed  papers,  from  which  the  Lords 
determine  the  cause ;  for  it  is  only  in  causes  of  great 
consequence  that  the  Court  orders  a  hearing  in  pre- 
sence. This  method  of  proceeding  is  admirable,  for 
it  gives  the  Judges  a  complete  state  of  every  ques- 
tion; and  by  binding  up  the  Session  papers  a  man 
may  lay  up  a  treasure  of  law  reasoning  and  a  collection 
of  extraordinary  facts. 

&th  March. — Here  I  am  still,  and  let  me  go  on.  It 
must  be  confessed  that  our  Court  of  Session  is  not  so 
favourable  to  eloquence  as  the  English  courts ;  yet  the 
Outer  House  here  is  a  school  where  a  man  may  train 
himself  to  pretty  good  purpose.  I  am  surprised  at 
myself,  I  already  speak  with  so  much  ease  and  bold- 
ness, and  have  already  the  language  of  the  bar  so 


MORAL    DIFFICULTIES.  73 

much  at  command.  I  have  now  cleared  eighty  guineas. 
My  clerk  comes  to  me  every  morning  at  six,  and  I 
have  dictated  "to  him  forty  folio  pages  in  one  day.  It 
is  impossible  to  give  you  an  idea  of  my  present  life. 
I  send  you  one  of  my  law  papers,  and  a  copy  of  my 
thesis.  I  am  doing  nobly;  but  I  have  not  leisure 
for  learning.  I  can  hardly  ever  answer  the  letters  of 
my  friends ;  but  henceforth,  Temple,  I  will  write  to 
you  every  two  weeks  :  trust  me.  It  is  very  odd  that 
I  can  labour  so  hard  at  law,  when  I  am  so  indolent 
in  other  things.  Let  you  and  I  keep  up  a  frequent 
intercourse,  and  preserve  our  friendship  in  its  full 
force  and  elegance,  and  assist  each  other  to  dispel 
every  cloud. 

You  are  right  in  preferring  social  life  to  retire- 
ment, for  no  philosophy  is  equal  to  action;  you 
should  not  however  have  quitted  your  elbow-chairs 
and  fine  carpets  ;  they  are  amusements,  and  you  must 
not  be  without  them.  You  have  had  a  fit  of  low 
spirits. 

In  a  former  part  of  this  letter  I  have  talked  a  great 
deal  of  my  sweet  little  mistress ;  I  am  however  un- 
easy about  her.  Furnishing  a  house  and  maintaining 
her  with  a  maid  will  cost  me  a  great  deal  of  money, 
and  it  is  too  like  marriage,  or  too  much  a  settled  plan 
of  licentiousness ;  but  what  can  I  do  ?  I  have  already 
taken  the  house,  and  the  lady  has  agreed  to  go  in  at 
Whitsuntide ;  I  cannot  in  honour  draw  back. 

Oh,  my  friend  !  were  you  but  here  ;  but,  alas  !  that 
cannot  be.  Mamhead  is  not  within  a  call ;  it  ought 


74  LETTERS   OF    BOSWELL. 

to  be,  for  you  should  always  be  my  pastor,  and  I 
might  now  and  then  be  yours.  Friend  of  my  youth, 
explain  to  me  how  we  suffer  so  severely  from  what 
no  longer  exists.  How  am  I  tormented  because  my 
charmer  has  formerly  loved  others !  Besides,  she  is 
ill-bred,  quite  a  rompish  girl.  She  debases  my  dignity; 
she  has  no  refinement,  but  she  is  very  handsome,  and 
very  lively.  What  is  it  to  me  that  she  has  formerly 
loved?  so  have  I.  I  am  positive  that  since  I  first 
courted  her  at  Moffat  she  has  been  constant  to  me ; 
she  is  kind,  she  is  generous.  What  shall  I  do  ?  I  wish 
I  could  get  off;  and  yet  how  awkward  would  it  be ! 
Think  of  your  Berwick  Celia,  and  sympathize  with 
me.  One  way  or  other,  my  mind  wiU  be  settled  before 
I  can  hear  from  you.  This  is  a  curious  epistle  to  a 
clergyman.  Admonish  me,  but  forgive  me. 

Dr.  Robertson  will  soon  give  the  world  his  '  Charles 
the  Fifth.'  Smith,  I  suppose,  is  in  London ;  but  I  do 
not  hear  that  his  book  on  jurisprudence  is  in  any  for- 
wardness. David  Hume,  you  know,  is  gone  back  to 
be  a  Minister  of  State,  being  appointed  secretary  to 
Mr.  Conway.  I  fancy  he  will  hardly  write  any  more. 
I  was  very  hearty  with  him  here  this  winter.  When- 
ever you  go  to  London,  I  will  give  you  a  letter  of 
introduction  to  him.  His  quarrel  with  Rousseau  is  a 
literary  tragi-comedy.  I  wrote  verses  in  the  character 
of  each  of  them ;  I  also  designed  a  ludicrous  print. 
They  have  altered  my  idea,  and  made  a  clyster  be 
applied  to  David ;  but  you  may  have  the  substance 
of  it  from  one  of  the  London  printshops,  under  the 


ROUSSEAU'S  QUARRELS.  75 

title  of  '  The  Savage.'  Now  you  must  know  Rousseau 
quarrelled  with  me  too,  and  wrote  me  last  summer  a 
peevish  letter,  with  strong  marks  of  frenzy  in  it,  for 
he  has  never  yet  told  me  the  cause  of  his  offence.  As 
you  will  observe,  how  different  is  our  friendship  ! 

I  have  got  pretty  well  acquainted  with  Dr.  Gre- 
gory;* he  was  very  desirous  to  know  me.  His  book 
is  ingenious  and  elegant,  and  he  himself  is  one  of  the 
most  amiable,  pleasant  men  alive. 

The  Session  will  be  up  this  day  se'nnight.  I  shall 
then  set  myself  down  to  my  account  of  Corsica,  and 
finish  it  in  the  vacation ;  I  have  got  more  materials 
.for  it.  I  had  some  time  ago  a  letter  of  sixteen  pages 
from  General  Paoli ;  and  lately  a  letter  of  three  pages 
from  my  Lord  Chatham.  David  Hume  told  me  sin- 
cerely he  imagined  my  account  of  Corsica  would  be  a 
book  that  will  stand,  and  he  is  obliging  enough  to 
transact  the  publication  of  it  for  me  with  Andrew 
Millar.  All  your  old  friends  here  are  well,  in  statu 
quo,  Jeel  and  all,  and  remember  you  kindly.  Sin- 
clair has  never  found  his  brother.  I  don't  write  often 
enough  to  Squire  Boswell,  but  I  shall  give  him  a  good 
letter  tomorrow ;  his  beauty,  I  am  afraid,  would  be  too 
fine  for  this  northern  air. 

Temple,  will  you  allow  me  to  marry  a  good  Scots 
lass?  ha!  ha!  ha!  What  shall  I  tell  you?  Zelide 
has  been  in  London  this  winter.  I  never  hear  from 
her, — she  is  a  strange  creature.  Sir  John  Pringle 

*  Dr.  Gregory  was  Professor  of  Medicine  in  the  University  of 
Edinburgh. 


76  LETTERS  OF    BOSWELL. 

attended  her  as  a  physician.  He  wrote  to  my  father : 
"  She  has  too  much  vivacity ;  she  talks  of  your  son 
without  either  resentment  or  attachment."  Her  bro- 
thers and  I  correspond ;  but  I  am  well  rid  of  her. 
You  say  well,  that  I  find  mistresses  wherever  I  am ; 
but  I  am  a  sad  dupe, — a  perfect  Don  Quixote.  To 
return  to  where  it  winces :  might  I  not  tell  my  charmer 
that  really  I  am  an  inconstant  being,  but  I  cannot  help 
it  ?  or  may  I  let  my  love  gradually  decay  ?  Had  she 
never  loved  before,  I  would  have  lost  every  drop  of 
my  blood  rather  than  give  her  up.  There's  madness  ! 
there's  delicacy  !  I  have  not  had  such  a  relief  as  this 
for  I  don't  know  how  long.  I  have  broke  the  tram- 
mels of  business,  and  arn  roving  unconfined  with  my 
Temple. 

My  brother  Davy  is  a  prodigious  fine  fellow.  He 
and  I  dined  together  tete-a-tete  on  Christmas -day  in 
an  elegant  manner,  and  went  to  chapel,  as  you  and  I 
did  long  ago.  He  is  in  constant  occupation  as  a 
banker,  and  thinks  those  weak  men  whose  minds  waver. 
He  is  doing  as  well  as  I  could  wish.  He  is  to  settle 
in  London.  I  hope  you  will  make  him  your  banker. 
On  Christmas-day  he  and  I  drank,  in  great  form,  "  the 
Reverend  Mr.  William  Temple,  rector  of  Mamhead, 
Devonshire." 

What  is  to  be  thought  of  this  life,  my  friend  ?  Hear 
the  story  of  my  last  three  days.  After  tormenting  my- 
self with  reflecting  on  my  charmer's  former  loves,  and 
ruminating  on  parting  with  her,  I  went  to  her.  I 
could  not  conceal  my  being  distressed.  I  told  her  I 


A    LOVE    SCENE    WITH    ZELIDE.  77 

was  very  unhappy,  but  I  would  not  tell  her  why.  She 
took  this  very  seriously,  and  was  so  much  affected 
that  she  went  next  morning  and  gave  up  her  house. 
I  went  in  the  afternoon  and  secured  the  house,  and 
then  drank  tea  with  her.  She  was  much  agitated; 
she  said  she  was  determined  to  go  and  board  herself 
in  the  north  of  England,  and  that  I  used  her  very  ill. 
I  expostulated  with  her ;  I  was  sometimes  resolved  to 
let  her  go,  and  sometimes  my  heart  was  like  to  burst 
within  me.  I  held  her  dear  hand  ;  her  eyes  were  full 
of  passion ;  I  took  her  in  my  arms ;  I  told  her  what 
made  me  miserable;  she  was  pleased  to  find  it  was 
nothing  worse.  She  had  imagined  that  I  was  suspi- 
cious of  her  fidelity,  and  she  thought  that  very  unge- 
nerous in  reconsidering  her  behaviour.  She  said  I 
should  not  mind  her  faults  before  I  knew  her,  since 
her  conduct  was  now  most  circumspect.  We  renewed 
our  fondness.  She  owned  she  loved  me  more  than 
she  had  ever  done  her  husband.  All  was  again  well. 
She  said  she  did  not  reproach  me  with  my  former  fol- 
lies, and  we  should  be  on  an  equal  footing.  My  mind 
all  at  once  felt  a  spring ;  I  embraced  her  with  trans- 
port, [The  letter  then  proceeds  to  say  that  the  same 
evening  he  supped  with  some  friends,  became  intoxi- 
cated, and  committed  gross  follies,  which  the  next  day 
he  went  and  confessed  to  his  charmer  in  terms  which 
he  thinks  eloquent.] 

How  like  you  the  eloquence  of  a  young  barrister  ? 
It  was  truly  the  eloquence  of  love.  She  bid  me  rise, 
she  took  me  by  the  hand ;  she  said  she  forgave  me ; 


78  LETTERS    OF    BOS  WELL. 

she  kissed  me ;  she  gently  upbraided  me  for  entertain- 
ing any  unfavourable  idea  of  her;  she  bid  me  take 
great  care  of  myself,  and  in  time  coming  never  drink 
upon  any  account.  Own  to  me,  Temple,  that  this 
was  noble ;  and  all  the  time  her  beauty  enchanted  me 
more  than  ever :  may  I  not  then  be  hers  ?  In  the 
meantime  I  must  be  shut  up,  and  honest  Thomas 
must  be  my  guardian  :  he  does  excellently  well.  Pray 
what  do  you  hear  of  Nicholls  and  Claxton  ?  Make  my 
compliments  to  them.  There  is  a  pretty  book  just 
now  published,  '  An  Essay  on  the  History  of  Civil  So- 
ciety/ by  the  Moral  Philosophy  Professor  here.  Let 
me  hear  from  you  soon,  and  believe  me, 

Ever  yours, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


The  topic  of  Boswell's  escapade  with  Zelide,  and 
other  matrimonial  speculations,  are  pursued  in  the  fol- 
lowing letter,  and  after  an  extremely  original  fashion. 

17.]  Auchinleck,  30^  March,  1767. 

My  dear  Temple, 

I  have  this  moment  received  your  kind  letter  of  the 
20th  instant,  which  has  been  like  an  oration  of  Tully 
to  my  soul.  I  am  happy  that  I  can  make  you  a  good 
report ;  for  as  my  Circe  went  to  MofFat  just  after  I 
wrote  to  you  last,  and  I  myself  was  to  go  to  Auchin- 
leck, I  had  time  to  think  coolly,  and  to  call  up  that 
reason  which  I  have  so  often  contradicted. 


CONFESSIONS.  79 

Johnston,  an  old  friend  of  mine,  a  writer  in  Edin- 
burgh, but  too  much  of  an  indolent  philosopher  to 
have  great  business,  being  rather  a  worthy  country 
gentleman,  with  a  paternal  estate  of  £100  a  year,  was 
much  distressed  with  my  unhappy  passion.  He  was 
at  Moffat  when  it  first  began,  and  he  marked  the  ad- 
vance of  the  fever.  It  was  he  who  assured  me,  upon 
his  honour,  that  my  fair  one  had  a  very  bad  character, 
and  gave  me  some  instances  which  made  my  love-sick 
heart  recoil.  He  had  some  influence  with  me,  but 
my  brother  David  had  more.  To  him  I  discovered 
my  weakness,  my  slavery,  and  begged  his  advice.  He 
gave  it  me  like  a  man  :  I  gloried  in  him.  I  roused  all 
my  spirit,  and  at  last  I  was  myself  again.  I  imme- 
diately wrote  her  a  letter,  of  which  I  enclose  the  scroll 
for  your  perusal.  She  and  I  have  always  corresponded 
in  such  a  manner  that  no  mischief  could  come  of  it ; 
for  we  supposed  a  Miss ,  to  whom  all  my  amo- 
rous vows  were  paid.  You  will  observe  my  method. 
I  wish  you  may  be  able  to  read  the  scroll.  After  read- 
ing the  note  to  Mrs. ,  read  pages  2,  3,  and  4,  to 

Miss ;  then  read  what  is  below  the  second  score 

in  page  1 ;  and,  lastly,  read  what  is  between  the  scores 
in  page  1.  This  is  leading  you  an  odd  dance,  but  it 
is  better  than  giving  myself  the  trouble  of  copying  the 
letter,  which  I  think  you  ought  to  see,  and  which  you 
will  please  return  to  me.  I  have  not  yet  got  her  an- 
swer :  what  will  it  be,  think  you  ?  I  shall  judge  of 
her  character  from  it.  I  shall  see  if  she  is  abandoned 
or  virtuous, — I  mean  both  in  a  degree ;  I  shall  at  any 


80  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

rate  be  firm.  What  a  snare  have  I  escaped  !  Do  you 
remember  Ulysses  and  Circe? — 

"  Sub  domina  meretrice  vixisset  turpis  et  excors." 
My  life  is  one  of  the  most  romantic  that  I  believe 
either  you  or  I  really  know  of;  and  yet  I  am  a  very 
sensible,  good  sort  of  man.  What  is  the  meaning  of 
this,  Temple?  You  may  depend  upon  it  that  very 
soon  my  follies  will  be  at  an  end,  and  I  shall  turn  out 
an  admirable  member  of  society.  Now  that  I  have 
given  my  mind  the  turn,  I  am  totally  emancipated 
from  my  charmer,  as  much  as  from  the  gardener's 
daughter  who  now  puts  on  my  fire  and  performs  me- 
nial offices  like  any  other  wench;  and  yet  just  this 
time  twelvemonth  I  was  so  madly  in  love  as  to  think 
of  marrying  her.  Should  not  this  be  an  everlasting 

lesson  to  me?     It  shall  be  so,  and  Mrs. shall 

second  it.     By  the  bye,  Temple,  I  must  tell  you  that 

I  have  never  owned  Mrs. 's  real  kindness  to  me 

except  in  my  letters  to  you.  I  am  much  upon  ho- 
nour in  all  these  affairs ;  so  if  by  any  strange  acci- 
dent anybody  who  knows  her  should  inquire  of  you, 
laugh  it  off  as  a  frolic.  You  unrelenting  dog!  you 
have  used  my  charmer  cruelly.  You  say  she  is  the 
unnatural  mother  of  three  children.  Ah  no  !  she  loves 
her  children,  but  a  barbarous  father  keeps  them  from 
her.  Her  affection  for  her  children  makes  her  ami- 
able to  me ;  but  I  confess  she  ought,  for  the  sake 
of  her  children,  to  conform  to  the  strict  ideas  of  the 
world.  How  strangely  do  we  colour  our  own  vices ! 
I  startle  when  you  talk  of  keeping  another  man's  wife. 


MISS    BOSVILLE.  81 

Yet  that  was  literally  my  scheme,  though  imagination 
represented  it  just  as  being  fond  of  a  pretty,  lively, 
black  little  lady,  who,  to  oblige  me,  stayed  in  Edin- 
burgh, and  I  very  genteelly  paid  her  expenses.  You 
will  see  by  my  letter  to  her  that  I  shall  have  a  house 
and  a  servant-maid  upon  my  hands.  How  she  will 
settle  that  I  know  not.  What  say  you  to  my  marry- 
ing? I  intend,  next  autumn,  to  visit  Miss  Bosville  in 
Yorkshire ;  but  I  fear,  my  lot  being  cast  in  Scotland, 
that  beauty  would  not  be  content.  She  is  however 
grave;  I  shall  see.  There  is  a  young  lady  in  the 
neighbourhood  here  who  has  an  estate  of  her  own, 
between  two  and  three  hundred  a  year,  just  eighteen, 
a  genteel  person,  an  agreeable  face,  of  a  good  family, 
sensible,  good-tempered,  cheerful,  pious.  You  know 
my  grand  object  is  the  ancient  family  of  Auchinleck, 
— a  venerable  and  noble  principle.  How  would  it  do 
to  conclude  an  alliance  with  the  neighbouring  princess, 
and  add  her  lands  to  our  dominions?  I  should  at 
once  have  a  very  pretty  little  estate,  a  good  house, 
and  a  sweet  place.  My  father  is  very  fond  of  her ;  it 
would  make  him  perfectly  happy :  he  gives  me  hints 
in  this  way : — "  I  wish  you  had  her, — no  bad  scheme 
this ;  I  think,  a  very  good  one."  But  I  will  not  be  in 
a  hurry ;  there  is  plenty  of  time.  I  will  take  to  my- 
self the  advice  I  wrote  to  you  from  Naples,  and  go  to 
London  awhile  before  I  marry.  I  am  not  yet  quite 
well,  but  am  in  as  good  a  way  as  can  be  expected. 
My  fair  neighbour  was  a  ward  of  my  father's ;  she  sits 
in  our  seat  at  church  in  Edinburgh ;  she  would  take 

G 


82 


LETTERS   OF    BOSWELL. 


possession  here  most  naturally.  This  is  a  superb  place ; 
we  have  the  noblest  natural  beauties,  and  my  father 
has  made  most  extensive  improvements.  We  look  ten 
miles  out  upon  our  own  dominions  :  we  have  an  excel- 
lent new  house.  I  am  now  writing  in  a  library  forty 
feet  long.  Come  to  us,  my  dearest  friend ;  we  will  live 
like  the  most  privileged  spirits  of  antiquity. 

I  am  now  seriously  engaged  in  my  account  of  Cor- 
sica ;  it  elevates  my  soul,  and  makes  me  spernere  hu- 
mum :  I  shall  have  it  finished  by  June.  My  brother 
David  is  quite  to  my  mind.  I  enclose  you  a  letter 
from  him ;  you  will  see  the  young  man  as  he  is  in  it. 
He  has  a  portion  of  that  sensibility  which  renders  you 
and  me  unhappy  every  moment,  till  time  and  expe- 
rience taught  us  common  sense  and  moderate  desires. 
I  am  ever,  my  dearest  friend, 

Most  affectionately  yours, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 

P.S. — What  varios  casus  have  you  known  your 
friend  in  first  and  last,  real  and  imaginary !  only  re- 
collect. How  do  you  get  your  letters  when  my  Lord 
Lisburne  is  at  London  ?  Must  this  go  to  his  Lord- 
ship's town-house?  Return  me  David's  letter,  with 
the  scroll,  to  Mrs. . 


In  the  interval  between  the  date  of  the  last  letter 
and  that  of  12th  June,  Boswell  addressed  a  letter  to 
the  Earl  of  Chatham,  which  ought  not  to  be  omitted, 
as  it  exhibits  the  self-complacency  of  the  writer  in  a 


LETTER   TO    LORD    CHATHAM.  83 

curious  manner.  The  modesty  witjj.  which  he  asks 
the  Earl  of  Chatham  to  write  to  him  "  now  and  then," 
that  he  may  delight  in  being  a  correspondent  of  a 
great  man,  is  truly  astounding :  Boswell  however  was 
gratified  to  some  extent,  for  the  next  letter  to  Temple 
mentions  a  letter  of  three  pages  from  Lord  Chatham. 


18.]  Amhinleck,  April  8  tit,  1767. 

I  have  communicated  to  General  Paoli  the  contents 
of  your  Lordship's  letter,  and  I  am  persuaded  he  will 
think  as  I  do. ...  Your  Lordship  applauds  my  "  gene- 
rous warmth  for  so  striking  a  character  as  the  able 
chief."  Indeed,  my  Lord,  I  have  the  happiness  of 
being  capable  to  contemplate,  with  supreme  delight, 
those  distinguished  spirits  by  which  God  is  some- 
times pleased  to  honour  humanity ;  and,  as  I  have  no 
personal  favour  to  ask  of  your  Lordship,  I  wiU  tell 
you,  with  the  confidence  of  one  who  does  not  fear  to 
be  thought  a  flatterer,  that  your  character,  my  Lord, 
has  filled  many  of  my  best  hours  with  that  noble  ad- 
miration which  a  disinterested  soul  can  enjoy  in  the 
bower  of  philosophy.  [He  then  informs  his  correspon- 
dent that  he  is  about  to  publish  an  account  of  Cor- 
sica, and  how  he  will  write  it,  and  then  proceeds :-. — ] 
As  for  myself,  to  please  a  worthy  and  respected  father, 
one  of  our  Scots  Judges,  I  studied  law,  and  am  now 
fairly  entered  to  the  bar.  I  begin  to  like  it ;  I  can 
labour  hard;  I  feel  myself  coming  forward;  and  I 
hope  to  be  useful  to  my  country.  Could  your  Lord- 

G  2 


84  LETTERS  OF    BOSWELL. 

ship  find  time  to  honour  me  now  and  then  with  a  letter? 
I  have  been  told  how  favourably  your  Lordship  has 
spoken  of  me.  To  correspond  with  a  Paoli  and  with 
a  Chatham  is  enough  to  keep  a  young  man  ever  ardent 
in  the  pursuit  of  virtuous  fame. 

I  am,  etc., 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


Alas !  the  following  letter  to  Temple  discloses  that 
the  pursuit  of  "virtuous  fame"  was  not  altogether 
preserved  ardent  in  the  writer's  mind  by  the  means 
of  the  exalted  correspondence  or  otherwise. 

19.]  Edinburgh,  Vtth  June,  1767. 

My  dear  Temple, 

I  have  this  moment  received  your  letter  of  yester- 
day. ^All  your  letters  have  come  safe.  I  may  at 
times  be  a  man  of  flight,  but  I  am  equalled  if  not  ex- 
ceeded by  my  friend.  Now,  at  Mamhead,  all  passion 
for  a  pretty  maid,  yet  profound,  daring,  and  philoso- 
phical ;  then  to  London,  and  desiring  me  not  to  write 
till  I  should  hear  from  you ;  and  now,  to  my  astonish- 
ment, at  Berwick-upon-Tweed.  Never,  surely,  were 
two  men  of  minds  more  similar.  I  am  not  surprised 
with  what  you  tell  me  of  your  present  views.  Per- 
haps the  plan  you  are  now  thinking  of  may  be  the 
surest  for  your  happiness.  The  lady  undoubtedly  has 
merit :  she  has  a  genteel  fortune,  and  her  constancy 
shows  that  she  has  a  real  regard  for  you :  but  of  this 
we  shall  talk  at  great  length.  The  lady  in  my  neigh- 


MATRIMONIAL  SPECULATIONS.          85 

bourhood  is  the  finest  woman  I  have  ever  seen.  I 
went  and  visited  her,  and  she  was  so  good  as  to  pre- 
vail with  her  mother  to  come  to  Auchinleck,  where 
they  stayed  four  days,  and  in  our  romantic  groves  I 
adored  her  like  a  divinity.  I  have  already  given  you 
her  character.  My  father  is  very  desirous  I  should 
marry  her, — all  my  relations,  all  my  neighbours,  ap- 
prove of  it.  She  looked  quite  at  home  in  the  house 
of  Auchinleck.  Her  picture  would  be  an  ornament 
to  the  gallery.  Her  children  would  be  all  Boswells 
and  Temples,  and  as  fine  women  as  these  are  excellent 
men.  And  now,  my  friend,  my  best  adviser  comes  to 
hear  me  talk  of  her  and  to  fix  my  wavering  mind.  I 
must  tell  you  my  Italian  angel  is  constant ;  I  had  a 
letter  from  her  but  a  few  days  ago,  which  made  me 
cry.  Come  to  me,  my  Temple ;  and  on  that  Arthur 
Seat,  where  our  youthful  fancies  roved  abroad  into  ex- 
travagant, imaginary  futurity,  shall  we  now  consult  to- 
gether on  plans  of  real  life  and  solid  happiness.  We 
can  now  hear  from  each  other  every  two  days.  How 
glad  I  am  at  this  unexpected  meeting !  what  a  variety 
have  we  to  talk  about !  I  was  at  any  rate  to  have  in- 
sisted on  your  coming  down  to  see  my  princess.  Per- 
haps it  would  be  well  for  me  to  be  as  much  engaged 
as  you  are ;  it  would  fix  my  mind  at  once  in  women, 
as  the  law -has  in  employment. 

Ever  yours, 

J.  B. 


The  "  Douglas  Cause,"  mentioned  in  the  following 


86  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

letter,  is  often  alluded  to  by  Boswell  as  one  in  which 
he  was  interested,  and  in  which  he  also  interfered  with 
his  pen,  by  writing  his  '  Essence  of  the  Douglas  Cause.' 
It  possessed  that  character  which  naturally  would  at- 
tract his  officious  attention ;  for  it  was  the  subject  of 
everybody's  conversation;  and  it  gratified  Boswell's 
feeling  of  self-importance  to  be  (or  to  be  supposed  to 
be)  mixed  up  in  a  matter  which  was  producing  an  ex- 
citement almost,  if  not  altogether,  unparalleled  in  the 
history  of  British  litigation.  Perhaps  this  excitement 
was  all  the  greater  on  account  of  the  grossness  of  the 
scandals  the  trial  revealed,  and  the  indecency  divulged 
in  its  detail. 

The  question  in  dispute  was  as  to  the  heirship  of 
Mr.  Archibald  Douglas.  If  he  were  really  the  son  of 
Lady  Jane  Douglas,  he  would  inherit  large  family 
estates ;  but  if  he  were  supposititious,  then  they  would 
descend  to  the  Duke  of  Hamilton.  On  behalf  of  the 
latter  it  was  attempted  to  be  established  that  Mr. 
Douglas  and  his  twin  brother  (who  had  died  young) 
had  been  bought  of  a  glass  manufacturer  and  a  rope- 
dancer  in  France ;  and  great  stress  was  laid  upon  the 
improbability  that  a  female,  who  had  been  long  mar- 
ried to  her  first  husband  without  issue,  should,  in 
her  forty-ninth  year,  when  married  a  second  time  to 
an  aged  and  infirm  old  gentleman,  give  birth  to  twins. 

The  trial  had  commenced  in  Scotland,  where  the 
excitement  was  excessive ;  indeed  party  spirit  ran  so 
high  that  the  peace  of  Edinburgh  was  for  two  days 
broken  thereby,  the  Hamilton  party  being  on  one  oc- 


THE    DOUGLAS    CAUSE.  87 

casion  driven  forth  from  the  city,  and  their  family 
apartments  in  Holyrood  House  broken  into  and  plun- 
dered. The  Judges  of  the  Court  of  Session,  when  the 
Cause  was  before  them,  had  been  divided  in  opinion, 
eight  against  seven,  the  Lord-President  Dundas  giving 
the  casting  vote  in  favour  of  the  Duke  of  Hamilton ; 
and,  in  consequence  of  it,  he  and  several  other  of  the 
Judges  had,  on  the  reversal  by  the  Lords,  their  houses 
attacked  by  a  mob.  It  is  said,  but  not  upon  conclu- 
sive authority,  that  Boswell  himself  headed  the  mob, 
which  broke  his  own  father's  windows. 

On  the  appeal  to  the  House  of  Lords  there  was 
most  injudicial  feeling  exhibited.  The  lay  Lords  de- 
termined to  take  part  in  the  decision  of  the  appeal, 
and  there  was  much  canvassing,  and  doubt  as  to  the 
result.  When  the  debate  came  on,  the  Duke  of  New- 
castle opened  it  on  behalf  of  one  side,  and  Lord  Sand- 
wich, taking  the  opposite  view  of  the  question,  an- 
swered him.  According  to  Horace  Walpole*  the  lat- 
ter nobleman  spoke  at  great  length  "  with  much 
humour,  and  scandalized  the  bishops,  having  with  his 
usual  industry  studied  even  the  midwifery  of  the  case, 
which  he  retailed  with  very  little  decency."  Lord 
Camden,  then  Chancellor,  took  occasion  to  affirm  that 
in  his  opinion  the  Appeal  before  the  house  was  "  per- 
haps the  most  solemn  and  important  ever  heard  at 
the  bar  •"  his  Lordship  however  not  only  thought  it 
very  important,  but  he  thought  it  very  clear,  alleging 
*hat  "  a  more  ample  and  positive  proof  of  the  child's 

*  '  Memoir  of  George  Hi.,'  vpl.  iii.  p.  303. 


88  LETTERS   OF    BOSWELL. 

being  the  son  of  a  mother  never  appeared  in  a  court 
of  justice." 

The  proceedings  in  the  Cause,  with  the  evidence, 
may  be  studied  in  five  large  quarto  volumes ;  but  the 
chief  interest  in  the  case  probably  remains  nowadays 
with  those  who  inherit  the  disputed  property,  and  in 
a  less  degree  perhaps  with  those  who  might  have  done 
so  if  the  House  of  Lords  had  given  an  opposite  judge- 
ment. 

Lord  Campbell  gives  his  opinion  however  thus  on 
the  matter.  He  says :  "  I  believe,  the  general  opinion 
of  English  lawyers  was  in  favour  of  the  decision  of 
the  Court  of  Session  in  Scotland ;  but  this  was  pro- 
duced a  good  deal  by  Lord  Mansfield's  wretched  ar- 
guments [as  to  the  impossibility  of  an  illustrious 
lady  committing  such  a  fraud],  and  the  very  able  let- 
ters of  Andrew  Stuart,  the  Duke  of  Hamilton's  agent, 
whose  conduct  had  been  severely  reflected  upon.  I 
once  studied  the  case  very  attentively,  and  I  must  own 
that  I  came  to  the  conclusion  that  the  House  did  well 
in  reversing."* 

Walpole's  judgement,  on  the  other  hand,  is  hostile 
to  the  Douglas  Claim :  he  says, — "  At  ten  o'clock  at 
night  the  decree  was  reversed  without  a  division;  a 
sentence,  I  think,  conformable  to  equity,  as  the  child 
was  owned  by  both  parents,  and  the  imposture  not 
absolutely  proved ;  yet,  in  my  opinion,  not  awarded  in 
favour  of  truth,  f  a  declaration  I  should  not  be  so  arro- 

*  Lord  Campbell's  '  Lives  of  the  Chancellors,'  vol.  v.  p.  290. 
f  This  is  no  compliment  paid  to  equity. 


THE    DOUGLAS    CAUSE.  89 

gant  as  to  make,  if  many  able  men  were  not  as  much 
persuaded  as  I  am  of  the  child  being  supposititious."* 
It  should  be  observed  that  although'the  lay  Peers  took 
part  in  the  debate,  and  entered  into  the  legal  question, 
they  did  not  divide  the  House  eventually ;  nevertheless 
five  of  them,  headed  by  the  Duke  of  Bedford,  thought 
it  not  improper  to  sign  a  protest  against  the  decision. 

For  whichever  side  the  judgement  of  the  Court 
ought  legally  to  have  been,  it  is  quite  clear  that  the 
case,  in  its  various  stages,  presents  the  spectacle  of 
persons  of  high  birth  and  great  wealth  mixed  up  with 
most  disreputable  transactions  in  pursuit  of  property. 
On  both  sides  fraud  and  perjury  were  unscrupulously 
called  in  aid  of  the  respective  claims  of  the  noble 
houses.  The  services  of  skilful  scoundrels  were  pur- 
chased ;  and  indeed  no  means  which  could  be  devised 
by  the  agents  employed  to  prepare  and  destroy  evi- 
dence, according  as  it  suited  their  clients'  purposes, 
were  rejected. 

The  Douglas  cause  seems  to  afford  an  example  of 
all  the  worst  characteristics  of  litigation :  it  exhibits 
prejudice  in  judges,f  venality  in  lawyers,  unscrupu- 
lousness  among  the  suitors  and  their  creatures,  and 

*  Chap.  x.  vol.  ii. 

f  The  speeches  of  Lord  Camden  and  Lord  Mansfield  (miserably 
reported)  are  to  be  found  in  the  'Collectanea  Juridica'  (vol.  ii.  p.  387), 
and  in  Parl.  Hist.,  vol.  xvi.  Andrew  Stuart's  '  Letters  to  Lord 
Mansfield  '  show  too  the  bitter  character  of  the  dispute,  and  the  ex- 
treme length  to  which  it  was  carried.  The  reader  may  also  con- 
sult the  'Annual  Reporter'  for  1769  for  a  brief  account  of  the 
matter. 


90  LETTERS  OF    BOSWELL. 

uncertainty  in  the  administration  of  the  law  itself. 
These  circumstances  however,  as  has  been  already  ob- 
served, rendered  Boswell's  interest  in  the  matter  all 
the  livelier. 

The  cause  is  sometimes  cited  in  the  medico-legal 
books  as  an  authority  with  regard  to  the  value  of 
evidence  relating  to  family  likeness,*  when  adduced 
to  prove  descent,  as  well  as  containing  a  great  deal  of 
curious  information  upon  the  probable  limits  of  the 
parents'  ages  within  which  an  heir  or  heiress  may  in- 
terpose between  an  estate  and  its  expectant  inheritor 
to  disappoint  him. 

In  addition  to  the  judicial  debates,  the  Parliamen- 
tary struggle,  the  bitter  conflicts  of  pamphleteers,  and 
the  violence  of  the  mobs,  the  services  of  fiction  were 
called  into  request ;  and  '  Dorando,'  a  Spanish  tale, 
probably  written  by  Boswell,  was  published,  which 
purported  to  embody  the  story  involved  in  the  suit. 

Although  Boswell  sometimes  seems  to  represent 
himself  as  counsel  in  the  cause,  he  was  not  properly 
retained ;  thus  we  find,  in  a  letter  to  Dr.  Johnson 
(Feb.  26,  1778),  Boswell  says,  "I  purpose  being  in 
London  about  the  28th  of  next  month,  as  I  think  it 
creditable  to  appear  in  the  House  as  one  of  Douglas's 

*  The  evidence  in  the  Douglas  cause  on  this  head  was  very  con- 
flicting, some  witnesses  declaring  Archibald  Douglas  to  be  the  very 
image  of  his  supposed  father,  while  others  swore  he  exactly  resem- 
bled a  French  peasant.  It  was  anyhow  less  clear  than  another  re- 
ported case,  where  the  Quarter  Sessions  affiliated  a  child  who  had 
six  fingers  to  his  hand  upon  an  unfortunate  man  because  he  had  a 
like  number  upon  one  of  his  hands. 


THE    DOUGLAS    CAUSE.  91 

counsel  in  the  great  last  competition  between  Duke 
Hamilton  and  him." 

This  would  indicate  that  he  appeared,  at  all  events 

^0fc 

at  this  stage  of  the  litigation,  as  counsel,  but  was  in 
truth  only  a  friend  and  amateur,  and  not  a  duly  ap- 
pointed advocate.  In  the  following  letter  he  states 
directly  that  he  was  not  counsel  in  the  cause. 

Whatever  was  the  part  Boswell  really  played  in  the 
suit,  it  is  clear  he  was  delighted  with  the  importance 
it  gave  him,  even  when  it  produced  the  exhibition  of 
contempt  and  animosity  from  the  party  whose  cause 
he  had  not  espoused.  He  gives  an  instance  of  this  in 
recounting  the  meeting  with  the  Duchess  of  Hamilton. 
The  scene  is  one  of  those  which  probably  Mr.  Mac- 
aulay  had  in  his  mind  when  he  says  that  the  bare  re- 
collection of  having  made  themselves  so  ridiculous  and 
contemptible  as  Boswell  certainly  here  did,  would  be 
enough  to  induce  most  men  to  hang  themselves  from 
shame  and  vexation.  "  I  was  in  fine  spirits,"  says 
Boswell,  "  and  though  sensible  that  I  had  the  misfor- 
tune of  not  being  in  favour  with  the  Duchess,  I  was 
not  the  least  disconcerted,  and  offered  her  Grace  some 
of  the  dish  before  me.  It  must  be  owned  that  I  was 
in  the  right  to  be  quite  unconcerned,  if  I  could.  I  was 
the  Duke  of  Argyle's  guest;  and  I  had  no  reason  to 
suppose  that  he  had  adopted  the  prejudices  and  re- 
sentments of  the  Duchess  of  Hamilton. 

"  I  knew  it  was  the  rule  of  modern  high  life  not  to 
drink  to  anybody ;  but,  that  I  might  have  the  satis- 
faction for  once  to  look  the  Duchess  in  the  face,  with 


92  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

a  glass  in  my  hand,  I  with  a  respectful  air  addressed 
her,  '  My  Lady  Duchess,  I  have  the  honour  to  drink 
to  your  Grace's  good  health.'  I  repeated  the  words 
audibly,  and  with  a  steady  countenance.  This  was 
perhaps  rather  too  much ;  but  some  allowance  must 
be  made  for  human  feelings.  ...  I  made  some  re- 
mark that  seemed  to  imply  a  belief  in  second  sight. 
The  Duchess  said,  '  I  fancy  you  will  be  a  Methodist! 
This  was  the  only  sentence  her  Grace  deigned  to  utter 
to  me ;  and  I  took  it  for  granted  she  thought  it  a  good 
hit  on  my  credulity  in  the  Douglas  cause.  .  .  .  We 
went  to  tea.  The  Duke  and  I  walked  up  and  down 
the  drawing-room  conversing.  The  Duchess  still  con- 
tinued to  show  the  same  marked  coldness  for  me,  for 
which,  though  I  suffered  from  it,  I  made  every  allow- 
ance, considering  the  very  warm  part  that  I  had  taken 
for  Douglas  in  the  cause  in  which  she  thought  her  son 
deeply  interested.  Had  not  her  Grace  discovered  some 
displeasure  towards  me,  I  should  have  suspected  her 
of  insensibility  or  dissimulation. 

"Her  Grace  made  Dr.  Johnson  come  and  sit  by 
her,  and  asked  him  why  he  made  his  journey  so  late  in 
the  year.  'Why,  Madam/  said  he,  'you  know  Mr. 
Boswell  must  attend  the  Court  of  Session,  and  it  does 
not  rise  till  the  twelfth  of  August.'  She  said,  with  some 
sharpness,  '  I  know  nothing  of  Mr.  Boswell/  Poor 
Lady  Lucy  Douglas,  to  whom  I  mentioned  this,  ob- 
served, '  She  knew  too  much  of  Mr.  Boswell.'  I  shall 
make  no  remark  on  her  Grace's  speech.  I  indeed 
felt  it  as  rather  too  severe ;  but  when  I  recollected 


THE    DOUGLAS    CAUSE.  93 

that  my  punishment  was  inflicted  by  so  dignified  a 
beauty,  I  had  that  kind  of  consolation  which  a  man 
would  feel  who  is  strangled  by  a  sttken  cord!'*  On 
the  whole,  we  may  perhaps  conclude  that  Boswell  de- 
rived far  more  pleasure  than  dissatisfaction  from  min- 
gling in  this  mighty  Douglas  fray. 


•20.]  Edinburgh,  22nd  July,  1767. 

My  dearest  Temple, 

Your  impatience  is  not  greater  than  mine.  Every 
hour  since  I  heard  you  was  at  Berwick  I  have  been 
for  taking  wing  to  meet  you.  I  only  regret  that  this 
is  Session  time  (Term  time)  with  me,  which  of  neces- 
sity enslaves  me  more  or  less.  This  Douglas  cause 
is  still  put  off  by  some  new  delay.  The  Lords  are 
to  examine  tomorrow  Isabel  Walker,  who  is  one  of 
Lady  Jane  Douglas's  maids,  and  is  the  only  person 
now  alive  who  has  been  accused  as  an  accomplice  in 
the  alleged  crime  of  partus  suppositio ;  her  examina- 
tion will  be  solemn  and  important.  Though  I  am  not 
a  counsel  in  that  cause,  yet  I  am  much  interested  in 
it.  I  doubt  if  it  will  be  determined  this  week,  but  I 
am  persuaded  it  will  not  be  put  off  longer  than  next 
week.  The  week  after  next  my  father  is  Judge  in  the 
Outer  House,  and  I  shall  have  such  a  load  of  business, 
that  we  could  be  together  very  little ;  I  would  therefore 
have  you  to  come  and  stay  next  week,  when  I  hope  to 

*  '  Life  of  Johnson;'  date,  October,  1773. 


94  LETTERS   OP    BOSWELL. 

be,  in  a  great  measure,  disengaged,  and  any  hours  that 
business  absolutely  demands  shall  be  compensated 
by  reading  journals  and  letters,  which  you  will  delight 
to  peruse ;  you  will  also  have  my  account  of  Corsica. 
How  happy  am  I  that  my  Temple  comes  to  give  it  his 
friendly  revisal !  My  Lord  Hailes  has  given  me  seven 
folio  pages  of  remarks  upon  it :  he  says,  "  I  am  much 
entertained  and  instructed."  Is  not  this  noble  ?  You 
may  have  very  good  lodging  in  the  same  stair  with 
us :  when  I  get  your  answer,  fixing  a  particular  day* 
I  shall  secure  them  for  you.  We  shall  live  entirely  in 
the  luxury  of  philosophy  and  friendship.  We  shall 
have  the  society  of  Doctor  Blair,  Doctor  Gregory, 
Doctor  Ferguson,  and  our  other  literati,  but  we  shall 
keep  the  best  portion  of  our  time  sacred  to  our  inti- 
mate affection.  My  dear  friend,  is  it  not  a  distin- 
guished felicity  to  participate  of  the  highest  friendship 
as  much  as  the  greatest  and  best  of  other  ages  have 
done  ?  This  is  literally  the  case  with  you  and  me : 
we  are  divine  madmen  to  the  dull  and  interested 
many.  Will  you  come  on  Saturday  or  on  Monday  ? 
Why,  oh  why,  is  it  Session  time  ?  Temple,  you  must 
be  at  Auchinleck ;  you  must  see  my  charming  bride. 
If  you  cannot  return  in  autumn,  pray  resolve  to  take 
a  ride  now,  and,  on  pretence  of  viewing  the  seat  of 
your  friend,  view  also  the  woman  who  has  his  heart. 
Come ;  you  have  the  fire  of  the  Spaniard,  I  know  you 
have :  oh,  think  of  this ! 

Ever  most  sincerely  yours, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


PROFESSIONAL    SUCCESS.  95 

P.S. — My  Circean  charmer  will  probably  be  here  by 
the  time  you  coine :  you  must  see  her.  I  have  a  great 
deal  to  tell  you.  My  Signora  is  indeed  a  wonderful 
creature ;  you  shall  know  all.  But-"again  let  me  en- 
treat of  you  to  take  one  romantic  ride,  to  oblige,  most 
essentially,  your  most  cordial  friend. 

Sir  Alexander  Dick — a  Corycius  senex,  quite  a 
classical  man,  and  much  of  an  Italian  in  pleasantness 
of  disposition — has  a  fine  seat  just  a  mile  from  town ; 
he  is  very  desirous  to  see  Mr.  Temple;  we  shall  be 
quite  at  home  there.  Well,  I  never  was  happier. 
Adieu,  till  we  meet. 


21.]  Edinburgh,  Friday,  26^  June,  1767. 

My  dearest  Friend, 

The  first  thing  I  must  do  is  to  defend  myself  against 
a  charge  of  affected  importance.  Yes,  indeed,  I  do 
say  neither  Mr.  Yorke  nor  Mr.  Norton  can  be  busier 
than  I  shall  be  the  week  that  my  father  sits  as  Judge 
in  the  Outer  House ;  for  you  must  know  that  the  ab- 
surdity of  mankind  makes  nineteen  out  of  twenty  em- 
ploy the  son  of  the  Judge  before  whom  their  cause  is 
heard  ;*  and  you  must  take  it  along  with  you  that  I 
am  as  yet  but  a  very  raw  counsellor,  so  that  a  mode- 
rate share  of  business  is  really  a  load  to  me.  So,  my 

*  That  this  is  not  the  experience  of  those  who  have  had  oppor- 
tunities of  watching  the  distribution  of  business  at  the  English  Bar 
may  safely  be  affirmed.  Boswell  however  had  probably  some  grounds 
for  his  assertion. 


96  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

dear  Temple,  you  are  wrong.  Never  suspect  that  I 
can  be  a  bit  better  to  you  than  I  am.  You  know  me 
too  well,  and  I  am  perfectly  satisfied  with  the  genuine 
esteem  which  you  have  for  me.  I  may  perhaps  now 
and  then  assume  some  airs,  but  it  is  strange  that  it 
should  be  so ;  but  undoubtedly  we  are  very  well  pleased 
that  those  who  cannot  admire  us  for  what  we  truly 
possess,  should  admire  us  for  what  we  do  not.  Thus 
far  my  defence ;  and  now,  my  ever  dear  friend,  let  me 
enjoy  the  agreeable  prospect  of  our  meeting.  I  have 
secured  lodgings  for  you  when  you  arrive ;  you  are  to 
choose  whether  you  will  have  one  large  room,  with  a 
large  alcove  bed-place,  or  two  rooms.  As  you  are  to 
stay  immediately  above  us,  Thomas  will  always  be 
ready  to  attend  upon  you,  as  I  suppose  you  will  not 
bring  a  servant  with  you. 

I  would  not  cloud  my  present  frame  of  mind  with 
any  gloomy  reflection  that  concerns  either  you  or  my- 
self; it  is  better  to  communicate  them  when  we  meet, 
when  our  mutual  sympathy  and  friendly  warmth  may 
temper  and  relieve  them.  [The  letter  then  proceeds, 
and  with  very  unnecessary  particularity,  with  a  nar- 
ration of  his  getting  "quite  intoxicated  on  Tuesday 
last  drinking  Miss  Blair's  health  (for  that  is  the  name 
of  my  angelic  princess),"  and  the  detail  of  follies 
which  he  committed  while  in  this  condition.  However 
he  adds, — "  But  I  am  abashed,  and  determined  to 
keep  the  strictest  watch  over  my  passions."  He  then 
closes  his  epistle  as  follows  : — ] 

You  must  resolve  to  visit  my  goddess.     You  are  a 


MENTAL    CONSTITUTION.  97 

stranger,  and  may  do  a  romantic  thing.  You  shall 
have  consultation  guineas,  as  an  ambassador  has  his 
appointments.  You  see  how  I  use  you.  In  short,  be- 
tween us  two,  all  rules  and  all  maxima  are  suspended. 
Pray  prepare  yourself  for  this  adventure ;  we  shall  settle 
it,  I  hope ;  I  cannot  go  with  you  though.  You  are  to 
see  our  country  for  a  jaunt,  upon  my  recommendation, 

etc.     Dearest  friend, 

Ever  yours, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 

This  is  Friday.     If  you  write  me  a  line  tomorrow, 
I  shall  have  it  on  Monday  by  dinner-time. 


The  itinerary  provided  here  by  Bosweh1  for  his  friend, 
and  the  programme  of  the  conversations  he  was  to 
support  with  Miss  Blair,  must  have  been  somewhat 
formidable,  especially  as  he  is  enjoined  "  to  be  a  man 
of  as  much  ease  as  possible,"  and  to  "  take  notes ; 
perhaps  you  now  fix  me  for  life." 

One  of  the  topics  suggested  for  Mr.  Temple's  dis- 
cussion leaves  it  uncertain  whether  Boswell  was  willing 
to  excuse  his  irregularities  on  the  score  of  a  predis- 
position to  insanity,  or  whether  he  was  perhaps  really 
suspicious  of  possessing  a  peculiar  mental  constitution 
analogous  to  disease  of  the  brain. 

Instructions  for  Mr.  Temple,  on  his  Tour  to 

AucJdnleck  and  Adamtown. 
He  will  set  out  in  the  fly  on  Monday  morning,  and 


98  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

reach  Glasgow  by  noon.  Put  up  at  Graham's,  and 
ask  for  the  horses  bespoke  by  Mr.  Bos  well.  Take 
tickets  for  the  Friday's  fly.  Eat  some  cold  victuals. 
Set  out  for  Kingswell,  to  which  you  have  good  road ; 
arrived  there,  get  a  guide  to  put  you  through  the 
muir  to  Loudoun;  from  thence  Thomas  knows  the 
road  to  Auchinleck,  where  the  worthy  overseer,  Mr. 
James  Bruce,  will  receive  you.  Be  easy  with  him,  and 
you  will  like  him  much ;  expect  but  moderate  enter- 
tainment, as  the  family  is  not  at  home. 

Tuesday. — See  the  house ;  look  at  the  front ;  choose 
your  room ;  advise  as  to  pavilions.  Have  James  Bruce 
to  conduct  you  to  the  cab-house ;  to  the  old  castle ; 
to  where  I  am  to  make  the  superb  grotto;  up  the 
river  to  Broomsholm  ;  the  natural  bridge ;  the  grotto ; 
the  grotto-walk  down  to  the  Gothic  bridge :  anything 
else  he  pleases. 

Wednesday. — Breakfast  at  eight ;  set  out  at  nine ; 
Thomas  will  bring  you  to  Adamtown  a  little  after 
eleven.  Send  up  your  name ;  if  possible,  put  up  your 
horses  there,  they  can  have  cut  grass ;  if  not,  Thomas 
will  take  them  to  Mountain,  a  place  a  mile  off,  and 
come  back  and  wait  at  dinner.  Give  Miss  Blair  my 
letter.  Salute  her  and  her  mother ;  ask  to  walk.  See 
the  place  fully ;  think  what  improvements  should  be 
made.  Talk  of  my  mare,  the  purse,  the  chocolate. 
Tell,  you  are  my  very  old  and  intimate  friend.  Praise 
me  for  my  good  qualities, — you  know  them  ;  but  talk 
also  how  odd,  how  inconstant,  how  impetuous,  how  much 
accustomed  to  women  of  intrigue.  Ask  gravely,  Pray 


TEMPLE    AS    AMBASSADOR.  99 

don  t  you  imagine  there  is  something  of  madness  in  that 
family  ?  Talk  of  my  various  travels, — German  princes, 
—Voltaire  and  Eomseau.  Talk  of  my  father;  my 
strong  desire  to  have  my  own  house.  Observe  her 
well.  See,  how  amiable !  Judge  if.-  she  would  be 
happy  with  your  friend.  Think  of  me  as  the  great 
man  at  Adamtown, — quite  classical  too !  Study  the 
mother.  Remember  well  what  passes.  Stay  tea. 
At  six,  order  horses  and  go  to  New  Mills,  two  miles 
from  Loudoun ;  but  if  they  press  you  to  stay  all  night, 
do  it.  Be  a  man  of  as  much  ease  as  possible.  Con- 
sider what  a  romantic  expedition  you  are  on ;  take 
notes  ;  perhaps  you  now  fix  me  for  life. 

Thursday. — Return  to  Glasgow  from  New  Mills  or 
from  Adamtown.  See  High  Church,  New  Church  Col- 
lege, and  particularly  the  paintings,  and  put  half-a- 
crown  into  the  box  at  the  door.  My  friend,  Mr.  Ro- 
bert Fowles,  will  show  you  all. 

Friday. — Come  back  in  the  fly.  Bring  your  port- 
manteau here.  We  shall  settle  where  you  are  to  lodge. 

N.B. — You  are  to  keep  an  exact  account  of  your 
charges. 


22.]  Edinburgh,  Wilt  July,  1767. 

My  dear  Temple, 

I  have  more  reason  to  make  an  apology  than  you 
had,  for  I  have  been  longer  negligent.  Let  us  guard 
against  this  vice,  and  not  subject  ourselves  to  continual 
returns  of  remorse  to  a  certain  degree ;  for  every  in- 

H  2 


100  LETTERS    OF    BOS  WELL. 

stance  of  our  doing  those  things  which  we  ought  not 
to  have  done,  and  leaving  undone  those  things  which 
we  ought  to  have  done,  is  attended  with  more  or  less 
of  what  is  truly  remorse.  [This  doctrine,  which  has 
the  merit  of  truth  if  not  of  novelty,  Boswell  proceeds 
to  illustrate  by  the  state  of  his  own  health,  which  was 
suffering  from  the  effects  of  dissipation.  The  reflec- 
tion however  which  follows  the  confession  of  his  folly 
is  too  extraordinary  to  be  omitted.]  Will  you  forgive 
me,  Temple,  (says  he)  for  exclaiming,  that  all  this  evil 
is  too  much  for  the  offence  of  my  getting  drunk,  be- 
cause I  would  drink  Miss  Blair's  health  in  a  large 
bumper  ?  But  general  laws  often  seem  hard  in  parti- 
cular cases. 

[The  letter  then  proceeds  with  matter  concerning  his 
ove  for  Miss  Blair.] 

I  have  not  heard  from  Adamtown  since  you  left 
me.  I  wrote  to  Miss  Blair  above  a  week  ago,  and 
thanked  her  for  the  polite  reception  she  gave  my 
friend.  I  told  her  how  much  you  was  charmed  with 
her,  and  that  I  should  not  probably  get  a  letter  from 
you  without  some  fine  thing  said  of  her.  I  made 
your  compliments  to  her  and  Mrs.  Blair.  What  can 
be  the  matter?  Probably  the  letter  you  carried  has 
been  thought  so  strange,  and  so  distant  from  any 
rational  scheme,  that  it  has  been  resolved  no  longer 
to  carry  on  so  friendly  and  easy  an  intercourse  with 
me.  Or  what  would  you  say  if  the  formal  Nabob 
whom  you  saw  there  has  struck  in,  and  so  good  a 
bird  in  hand  has  made  the  heiress  quit  the  uncertain 


MARRIAGE    OF    TEMPLE.  101 

prospect  of  catching  the  bird  in  the  bush?  I  am 
curious  to  see  how  this  matter  will  turn  out.  The 
mare,  the  purse,  the  chocolate,  where  are  they  now  ? 
I  am  certainly  not  deeply  in  love,  for  I  am  entertained 
with  this  dilemma  like  another  chapter'  in  my  adven- 
tures, though  I  do  own  to  you  that  I  have  a  more 
serious  attachment  to  her  than  I  ever  had  to  any- 
body ;  for  here  every  flower  is  united.  Perhaps  the 
dilemma  will  be  agreeably  solved,  so  let  me  not  allow 
my  mind  to  waver.  At  any  rate  you  have  a  tolerable 
hold  upon  me.  Smith  is  here  just  now  j  his  '  Juris- 
prudence' will  be  out  in  a  year  and  a  half.  Hoping 
to  hear  of  a  very  happy  event  being  at  length  certain, 
I  am  ever, 

Most  affectionately  yours, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


23.]  Edinburgh,  lltJi  August,  1767. 

My  dear  Temple, 

I  sincerely  congratulate » you  on  your  marriage, 
which,  from  your  manner  of  writing,  I  take  to  be  a 
very  good,  comfortable  situation.  You  have  removed 
half  my  apprehensions,  and  I  suppose  I  shall  likewise 
by-and-by  experience  the  agreeable  union.  But  what 
can  you  say  in  defence  of  this  heiress  ?  Not  a  word 
from  her  since  you  were  there.  You  carried  her  one 
letter  from  me,  and  I  wrote  her  another  a  week  after, 
neither  of  which  have  been  answered.  You  must  know 
that  my  present  unhappy  distemper,  joined  with  a  cold, 


10.2  LETTERS   OF    BOS  WELL. 

brought  on  a  most  terrible  fever,  and  I  was  for  several 
days  in  a  most  alarming  situation ;  I  am  not  yet  up, 
though  I  am  in  a  fair  way  of  recovery  from  every  evil. 
Well,  but  to  return.  I  wrote  Miss  Blair  on  Wednes- 
day the  5th,  that  I  was  afraid  Mr.  Temple  had  told  her 
my  faults  too  honestly,  so  that  she  was  mistaken  in 
having  too  good  an  opinion  of  me ;  that  however  she 
had  punished  me  (only  think  of  that,  Temple !)  too 
much ;  that  I  felt  it  the  more,  because  I  had  been 
for  some  days  confined  to  my  bed  by  a  feverish  dis- 
order, and  had  been  dreaming  a  great  deal  of  her. 

Now,  my  dear  friend,  suppose  what  you  please; 
suppose  her  affections  changed,  as  those  of  women 
too  often  are;  suppose  her  offended  at  my  Spanish 
stateliness;  suppose  her  to  have  resolved  to  be  more 
reserved  and  coy  in  order  to  make  me  more  in  love ; 
nay,  suppose  her  betrothed  to  that  man  of  copper,  the 
formal  Nabob, — still,  politeness  obliged  her  to  give  me 
some  answer  or  other ;  yet  it  is  now  four  posts  since 
that  answer  might  have  come.  Is  it  not  strange, 
after  such  frankness  and  affability?  What  shall  I 
think?  As  I  am  quite  in  the  dark,  I  will  take  no 
resolution  against  her  till  you  advise  me,  for  I  still 
cannot  help  thinking  she  is  the  best  woman  to  be 
my  wife  I  have  ever  seen.  Perhaps  her  mysterious 
conduct  may  be  quite  cleared  up. 

A  letter  from  my  Signora  at  Siena,  written  with  all 
the  warmth  of  Italian  affection  !  I  am  a  strange  man, 
but  ever  your  most  sincere  friend, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


COPYRIGHT    OF    HIS    BOOK.  103 

P.  S. — David  Johnston  and  all  here  wish  you  joy ; 
so  does  Sir  Alexander  Dick  and  Doctor  Boswell.  The 
honest  Doctor  thinks  you  a  good,  quiet  philosopher,  a 
kind  of  Parson  Adams.  Inimitable !  Wyvill  was  so 
good  as  to  call  when  I  was  so  very  ill.  I  shall  send 
to  him,  and  have  him  to  chat  awhile.  I  am  to  be 
a  week  or  two  here,  quiet  and  studious.  Mr.  Dilly, 
bookseller  in  the  Poultry,  has  purchased  my  '  Account 
of  Corsica.'  I  receive  one  hundred  guineas  three 
months  after  publication.  I  shall  be  close  employed 
all  this  autumn  in  revising  and  correcting  the  proof- 
sheets.  Let  me  hear  from  you  soon. 


104 


CHAPTER  V. 

1767-1768. 

COURTING    MISS    BLAIR. — 'DORANDO.' — MATRIMONY. MODE    OF 

PRESERVING  A  REASONABLE  ATTACHMENT  TO  MISS  BLAIR. — 
DISAGREEMENT  BETWEEN  FATHER  AND  SON  AS  TO  BOS- 
WELL' s  MERITS. — THE  'CORSICAN  JOURNAL.' — LORD  BALTI- 
MORE'S TOUR. — LOVERS'  QUARRELS. — BOSWELL'S  COSTUME  FOR 
COURTING. — MISS  BLAIR  REPUDIATED. —  ZELIDE  AND  MISS 
BOSVILLE  RECONSIDERED. — MISS  BLAIR  REPLACED. — DIA- 
LOGUE BETWEEN  THE  PRINCE  AND  PRINCESS. — ITS  RESULT. 

THE  following  Chapter  contains  a  most  absurd  confes- 
sion by  Boswell  as  to  his  courtship  of  Miss  Blair,  and 
shows  how  his  egotism  and  total  want  of  balance  in 
character  affected  his  conduct  in  this  affair.  It  is  in- 
deed an  extraordinary  phenomenon  which  he  here  ex- 
hibits :  we  see  a  rational  man,  apparently  conscious  of 
the  motives  which  are  actuating  him,  which  he  also 
discusses  in  these  letters  with  considerable  minute- 
ness and  truthfulness,  but  of  their  moral  value  he 
seems  entirely  ignorant. 

He  also  dwells  much  on  his  own  "  singular  hum  our," 
which  perhaps,  if  he  were  not  so  evidently  aware  of  it, 
might  afford  some  extenuation  of  his  behaviour.  He  is 


COURTING    MISS    BLAIR.  105 

moreover  willing  to  offer  as  an  explanation  for  his  irre- 
gularities "  the  madness  in  his  composition,"  which  he 
either  may  or  may  not  have  believed  in.  The  time 
which  he  now  fixes  for  controlling  himself  and  be- 
coming a  dignified  man,  viz.  when  his  '  Corsican  Jour- 
nal '  should  be  published,  was  unfortunately  extended 
from  time  to  time  for  an  indefinite  period. 


24.]  Edinburgh,  25^  August,  1767. 

My  dear  Temple, 

Marriage  is  like  to  lose  me  a  friend ;  for  I  have  not 
had  a  line  from  you  for  near  a  fortnight,  although  my 
last  letter  was  full  of  anxiety  with  regard  to  my  ami- 
able Miss  B .  What  can  have  occasioned  so  long 

a  silence  ?  I  conclude,  because  you  are  not  able  to 
make  an  apology  for  the  conduct  of  a  lady  for  whom 
you  are  a  kind  of  surety ;  I  will  therefore  relieve  you 
from  this  dilemma,  by  informing  you  that  she  has 
made  an  apology  herself.  On  Monday  se'nnight  I  had 
the  pleasure  to  receive  a  most  agreeable  letter  from  her, 
in  which  she  told  me  that  my  letter  to  her  had  lain 
eight  days  at  the  post-house  at  Ayr,  which  was  the 
occasion  of  her  seeming  neglect.  You  see,  my  friend, 
how  appearances  are  often  very  deceitful.  This  never 
occurred  either  to  you  or  me.  I  have  refrained  from 
communicating  this  to  you  from  a  curiosity  to  see  how 
you  would  endeavour  to  excuse  her  conduct ;  but,  since 
I  have  waited  so  long  in  vain,  I  now  make  you  as  easy 
as  myself.  I  would  send  you  the  letter,  but  it  says  so 


106  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

many  fine  things  of  you,  that  I  will  not  give  you  so 
much  pleasure  till  I  hear  from  you  again. 

Wyvill  was  so  good  as  to  come  and  sit  a  whole  af- 
ternoon with  me :  he  is  an  admirable  critic  on  my 
account  of  Corsica.  He  is  gone  on  a  jaunt  to  Glas- 
gow, etc.,  with  his  father  and  sister ;  he  sends  you  his 
best  compliments.  I  hope  to  have  him  with  me  again 
in  a  day  or  two. 

I  ever  am,  my  dear  Temple, 

Your  most  faithful  friend, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


25.]  EdinburgJi,  28 th  August,  1767. 

My  dear  Friend, 

It  seems  you  and  I,  like  the  magnetic  needles  of 
the  two  friends,  have  both  turned  towards  each  other 
at  the  same  time.  You  would  receive,  the  day  before 
yesterday,  a  letter  from  me  complaining  of  your  long 
silence,  and  I  have,  by  the  same  post,  received  a  very 
kind  one  from  you. 

Are  you  not  happy  to  find  that  all  is  well  between 
the  Prince  of  Auchinleck  and  his  fair  neighbouring 
Princess  ?  In  short,  Sir,  I  am  one  of  the  most  fortu- 
nate men  in  the  world.  As  Miss  Blair  is  my  great 
object  at  present,  and  you  are  a  principal  minister  in 
forwarding  the  alliance,  I  enclose  you  the  latest  papers 
on  the  subject.  You  will  find  the  letter  I  wrote  her 
when  ill,  where  you  will  see  a  Scots  word  roving,  from 
the  French  rever,  as  if  to  dream  awake.  I  put  it  down 


MATRIMONIAL    NEGOTIATIONS.  107 

as  a  good  English  word,  not  having  looked  in  Johnson. 
You  will  next  find  the  lady's  answer ;  then  a  long  let- 
ter from  me,  which  required  an  extraordinary  degree 
of  good  sense  and  temper  to  answer  it  with  an  agree- 
able propriety ;  then  her  answer,  which  exceeds  my 
highest  expectations.  Read  these  papers  in  their  order, 
and  let  me  have  your  Excellency's  opinion.  Am  I  not 
now  as  well  as  I  can  be  ?  What  condescension  I  what 
a  desire  to  please !  She  studies  my  disposition,  and 
resolves  to  be  cautious,  etc.  Adorable  woman  !  Don't 
you  think  I  had  better  not  write  again  till  I  see  her  ? 
I  shall  go  west  in  a  fortnight ;  but  I  can  hardly  re- 
strain myself  from  writing  to  her  in  transport.  I  will 
go  to  Adamtown,  and  stay  a  week.  I  will  have  no  dis- 
guise ;  we  shall  see  each  other  fairly  ;  we  are  both  in- 
dependent; we  have  no  temptation  to  marry  but  to 
make  each  other  happy.  Let  us  be  sure  if  that  would 
be  the  consequence.  Was  it  not  very  good  in  my 
worthy  father  to  visit  my  mistress  in  my  absence  ?  I 
have  thanked  him  for  it,  and  begged  he  may  send  his 
chaise  for  Mrs.  Blair  and  her  to  come  and  stay  some 
days  with  him.  I  am  recovering  well,  and  my  spirits 
are  admirable.  I  shall  send  you  two '  Dorandos  '  by  the 
carrier ;  he  does  not  go  till  Thursday.  Honest  John- 
ston, who  sits  by  me,  sends  you  his  most  sincere  con- 
gratulations. Pray  make  my  best  compliments  to  Mrs. 
Temple.  I  ever  am,  dear  Temple, 

Your  most  affectionate  friend, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


108  LETTERS   OF    BOSWELL. 

'  Dorando'  was  the  romance  founded  on  the  Douglas 
cause,  the  scene  being  laid  in  Spain.  If  Boswell  was 
the  author  of  it,  he  did  not  affix  his  name  to  the  title- 
page.  I  have  not  been  able  to  obtain  a  copy  of  it ; 
the  work  was  however  reviewed  in  the  columns  of  the 
'  Gentleman's  Magazine'  upon  its  publication. 


26.]  Edinburgh,  ZWi  August,  1767. 

Dear  Temple; 

My  letter  yesterday  was  so  full  of  the  Princess,  that 
I  had  not  room  for  anything  else.  I  cannot  however 
delay  expressing  the  great  satisfaction  I  feel  at  your 
prospect  of  happiness  in  a  married  state.  By  what 
you  say  of  Mrs.  Temple,  I  have  no  doubt  of  your 
living  agreeably,  as  I  am  persuaded  you  will  make  an 
excellent  husband. 

I  like  your  way  of  representing  marriage,  plainly 
and  simply;  for  we  have  a  strange  custom  of  look- 
ing upon  it  as  something  quite  mysterious,  and  have 
therefore  twice  as  many  apprehensions  as  we  need 
have ;  for  I  do  say  we  must  have  some  apprehensions 
when  engaging  to  have  a  fidelity  and  common  in- 
terest for  life.  Not  only  will  you  be  happy,  but  you 
will  make  your  friend  so  too,  by  showing  him  the 
way  to  calm  and  permanent  felicity,  as  far  as  this  life 
will  allow. 

The  packet  I  sent  you  yesterday  would  furnish  you 
with  an  excellent  subject  for  a  homily,  as  worthy  Sir 
Alexander  said.  My  old  and  intimate  friend,  can  I 


REASONABLE    ATTACHMENT.  109 

be  better  ?  Can  you  suppose  any  woman  in  Britain 
with  whom  more  circumstances  could  unite  to  engage 
me?  All  my  objections  arise  from  my  own  faults. 
Tell  me,  can  I  honestly  ask  so  fine  a  woman  to  risk 
her  happiness  with  a  man  of  my  character  ? 

I  am  so  well  that  I  hope  to  be  abroad  in  a  few  days. 
My  health  must  be  restored  in  the  first  place ;  then 

I  have  Mrs. to  take  care  of.  You  may  say  what 

you  please,  but  she  is  a  good  girl ;  she  is  a  contented, 
cheerful  temper,  and  is  perfectly  generous ;  she  has 
not  had  a  single  guinea  from  me  since  you  were  here, 
nor  has  she  given  me  the  least  hint  as  if  she  wanted 
money.  I  am  indeed  fond  of  her ;  but  some  tender 
feelings  must  be  forgotten.  She  comes  and  drinks  tea 
with  me  once  or  twice  a  week.  Next  month  will  pro- 
bably fix  our  alliance,  which  may  be  completed  next 
year. 

I  am  glad  Nicholls  is  so  good  a  man.  Do  you  wish 
to  have  the  speeches  of  our  Judges  ?  they  are  imper- 
fect :  you  will  soon  have  a  better  edition.  With  com- 
pliments to  Mrs.  Temple, 

I  ever  am  yours,  etc., 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


27.]  Edinburgh,  Wi  September,  1767. 

My  dear  Temple, 

How  kind  are  you  to  take  such  a  concern  in  what 
interests  me  !  We  have  been  to  blame,  you  say ;  and 
throughout  the  whole  of  your  last  letter  you  talk  in 


110  LETTERS   OF    BOSWELL. 

the  plural  number,  as  if  the  affection  between  Miss 
Blair  and  me  were  of  equal  importance  to  you  as  to 
your  friend.  I  do  think  her  the  finest  woman  I  have 
seen,  take  her  altogether,  nor  could  I  wish  to  be  hap- 
pier in  a  wife. 

But  in  this  strange  world  it  is  hardly  possible  to  be 
happy :  if  uneasiness  does  not  arise  from  ourselves,  it 
will  come  to  us  from  others.  How  unaccountable  is 
it  that  my  father  and  I  should  be  so  ill  together !  He 
is  a  man  of  sense  and  a  man  of  worth ;  but  from  some 
unhappy  turn  in  his  disposition,  he  is  much  dissatisfied 
with  a  son  whom  you  know. 

I  write  to  him  with  warmth,  with  an  honest  pride, 
wishing  that  he  should  think  of  me  as  I  am  ;  but  my 
letters  shock  him,  and  every  expression  in  them  is  in- 
terpreted unfavourably.  To  give  you  an  instance,  I 
send  you  a  letter  I  had  from  him  a  few  days  ago. 
How  galling  is  it  to  the  friend  of  Paoli  to  be  treated 
so !  I  have  answered  him  in  my  own  style  :  I  will  be 
myself.  I  have  said,  "  Why  think  so  strangely  of  my 
expression  of  being  Primus  Mantua  ?  Suppose  I  were 
married  to  Miss  Blair,  would  I  not  be  Primus  Mantua 
at  Adamtown?  and  why  not?  Would  you  not  be 
pleased  to  see  your  son  happy  in  independence,  culti- 
vating his  little  farm  and  ornamenting  his  nuptial 
villa,  and  filling  himself  one  day,  as  well  as  possible, 
the  place  of  a  much  greater  man  ?" 

Temple,  would  you  not  like  such  a  son?  would 
you  not  feel  a  glow  of  parental  joy?  I  know  you 
would  ;  and  yet  my  worthy  father  writes  to  me  in  the 


LORD    ATJCH1NLECK.  Ill 

manner  you  see,  with  that  Scots  strength  of  sarcasm 
which  is  peculiar  to  a  North  Briton.  But  he  is  offended 
with  that  fire  which  you  and  I  cherish  as  the  essence 
of  our  souls ;  and  how  can  I  make  him  happy  ?  Am 
I  bound  to  do  so  at  the  expense,  not  of  this  or  the 
other  agreeable  wish,  but  at  the  expense  of  myself. 
The  time  was  when  such  a  letter  frsaa  my  father  as 
the  one  I  enclose  would  have  depressed ;  but  I  am  now 
firm,  and,  as  my  revered  friend  Mr.  Samuel  Johnson 
used  to  say,  I  feel  the  privileges  of  an  independent 
human  being ;  however,  it  is  hard  that  I  cannot  have 
the  pious  satisfaction  of  being  well  with  my  father.  I 
send  you  an  extract  from  a  letter  of  yours  which  gave 
him  a  very  bad  opinion  of  Temple  in  the  year  1759;  it 
will  divert  you  to  read  it  at  this  distance  of  time.  Pray 
return  it,  together  with  my  father's  letter,  by  the  car- 
rier who  brings  you  this,  and  '  Dorando,'  of  which  I 
have  sent  only  one  copy,  as  I  have  few  here.  When 
you  get  to  London  I  shall  desire  Mr.  Wilkie,  my  pub- 
lisher, to  let  you  have  two  or  three  of  them.  Let  me 
know  if  packets  come  safe  by  your  carrier. 

Sir  James  Steuart's  book  is  of  such  a  size,  and 
treats  of  subjects  so  deep,  that  I  confess  I  have  not 
read  it.  Those  who  are  acquainted  with  such  abstruse 
questions  allow  him  considerable  merit,  although  his 
opinions  are  sometimes  singular  and  fanciful ;  he  has 
a  very  strange  and  groundless  paragraph  against  the 
Corsicans,  as  if  they  had  been  so  luxurious  as  to  be 
obliged  to  sell  their  island  to  the  Genoese.  I  shall 
correct  this  mistake  in  my  account  of  Corsica. 


112  LETTERS    OF    BOS  WELL. 

The  press  is  opened,  and  my  book  is  fairly  set  agoing. 
"  0  navis,  referet  in  mare  te  novum ! " 

The  proof-sheets  amuse  me  finely  at  breakfast.  I 
cannot  help  hoping  for  some  applause.  You  will  be 
kind  enough  to  communicate  to  me  all  that  you  hear, 
and  to  conceal  from  me  all  censure.*  I  would  not 
however  dislike  to  hear  impartial  corrections ;  perhaps 
Mr.  Gray  may  say  something  to  you  of  it.f  The  last 
part  of  my  work,  entitled  the  '  Journal  of  a  Tour  to 
Corsica,'  is  in  my  opinion  the  most  valuable ;  you  have 
not  had  an  opportunity  to  see  it.  So  soon  as  I  find  a 
sure  hand  I  will  send  you  it ;  and  you  must  do  me 
the  favour  to  peruse  it  with  care,  and  write  your  ob- 
servations and  corrections  on  a  separate  paper,  refer- 
ring to  the  pages,  as  my  Lord  Hailes  did.  Pray  in- 
quire and  let  me  know  if  you  can  get  a  sure  hand 
by  whom  you  can  venture  to  send  it  to  Mr.  Wyvill, 
who  is  also  to  revise  it  for  me.  Did  you  see  him 
as  he  passed  ?  He  promised  to  me  that  he  would  call 
upon  you. 

I  rejoice  to  hear  of  the  continuance  of  your  con- 
tentment. Laugh  as  you  please,  or  reason  as  you 
please,  I  think  your  present  way  of  life  very  comfort- 
able ;  reading  little,  riding,  walking,  eating,  drinking, 
and  sleeping  well,  and  enjoying  the  society  of  a  wife 
whom  you  love. 

*  Sic  in  orig. 

f  We  have  seen  Mr.  Gray  did  say  something  about  it  in  his  letter 
to  Walpole,  but  not  quite  what  Boswell  would  like  to  have  heard : 
ante,  p.  60. 


THE    PRINCESS.  113 

"  Parson,  these  goods  in  thy  possessing, 
Are  better  than  the  bishop's  blessing." 

My  dear  friend,  I  weary  you  with  a  letter  of  an  in- 
tolerable length :  I  cannot  however  conclude  without 
saying  one  word  of  the  Princess.  I  shall  write  to  her 
tomorrow,  and  shall  soon  go  and  throw  myself  at  her 
feet.  I  offer  my  best  compliments  to  -Mrs.  Temple,  to 
whom  I  hope  to  pay  my  respects  next  spring  at  Mam- 
head.  My  old  friend,  at  this  moment  our  first  ac- 
quaintance at  Hunter's  class  comes  full  into  my  mind : 
what  a  crowd  of  ideas  since  !  Adieu. 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


28.]  Edinburgh,  Mnd  September,  1767. 

My  dear  Temple, 

I  am  really  uneasy  at  not  having  heard  from  you 
since  I  sent  you  a  packet  by  the  Berwick  carrier. 
Thomas  took  the  packet  to  him  on  Thursday  se'nnight; 
it  contained  'Dorando,'  a  long  letter  from  your  old 
friend,  with  one  from  his  father.  Pray  write  to  me, 
and  if  you  have  not  received  the  packet,  make  the 
carrier  give  an  account  what  he  has  done  with  it,  for 
I  should  be  vexed  to  think  that  it  has  fallen  into  the 
hands  of  strangers.  If  my  uneasiness  is  only  occa- 
sioned by  your  indolence  I  shall  be  glad,  though  I 
shall  not  spare  you. 

I  have  written  to  the  Princess  in  a  style  more  and 
more  as  you  would  wish ;  I  expect  to  hear  from  her 
soon.  I  have  received  a  most  polite  letter  from  Sir 

i 


114  LETTERS   OF    BOSWELL. 

James  Steuart,  in  answer  to  one  which  I  wrote  to 
him  with  regard  to  a  passage  in  his  'Political  Eco- 
nomy,' which  is  injurious  to  the  Corsicans.  I  shall 
settle  that  matter  in  my  book,  in  terms  very  respect- 
ful to  Sir  James. 

I  see  in  the  newspapers  a  specimen  of  a  '  Tour  to 
the  East'  by  Lord  Baltimore,  just  published ;  it  seems 
to  be  written  with  the  most  careless  ease,  but  with 
vivacity,  and  now  and  then  you  meet  with  admirable 
little  anecdotes.  Lord  Baltimore  has  had  a  very  good 
opportunity  to  know  something  of  Eastern  manners ; 
he  is  a  man  of  singular  independence  and  whim ;  he 
lived  a  long  time  at  Constantinople,  wore  the  dress 
of  the  country,  kept  his  seraglio  of  the  finest  women, 
and,  in  short,  enjoyed  the  existence  of  a  Turk.  Do 
you,  my  dear  Temple,  enjoy  the  existence  of  a  worthy 
clergyman  of  the  Church  of  England.  Make  my  best 
compliments  to  your  one  wife,  and  believe  me 
Ever  your  affectionate  friend, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


29.]  Edinburgh,  2nd  October,  1767. 

My  dearest  Friend, 

Your  letter  from  London  relieved  me  from  a  great 
deal  of  anxiety,  both  on  your  account  and  the  letters, 
which  would  have  made  a  bad  appearance  to  strangers. 
How  can  you  let  indolence  occasion  me  so  much  un- 
easiness? Your  letter  came  late,  night  before  last. 
It  was  not  in  my  power  to  get  £30  ready  for  last 


THE    CORSICAN    JOURNAL.  115 

night's  post ;  you  have  along  with  this  a  draft  for 
that  sum. 

I  have  sent  you  a  copy  of  my  '  Corsican  Journal,' 
which  you  will  do  me  the  favour  to  peruse  in  the 
shades  of  Mamhead,  in  the  tranquillity  of  your  Rectory, 
and  write  down  on  a  separate  sheet  of  paper  your  re- 
marks and  corrections,  as  my  Lord  Hailes  did ;  you 
need  not  take  the  trouble  to  mark  both  page  and  line, 
only  page.  So  soon  as  you  have  finished  six  sheets, 
send  me  your  remarks,  and  transmit  the  sheets  to  Wy- 
vill,  with  franks,  addressed  to  me,  along  with  them,  so 
that  he  may  send  them  to  me.  Wyvill,  I  fancy,  will 
be  in  Essex.  I  expect  a  letter  from  him  every  day, 
with  his  address  if  he  is  not,  which  I  shall  send  to 
you  ;  his  address  in  Essex  is,  "  Rector  of  Black  Notely, 
near  Braintree,  Essex."  You  will  find  many  various 
readings  in  my  'Journal,' — tell  which  you  prefer.  Now, 
Temple,  I  trust  you  will  be  diligent  and  clever  to  aid 
your  friend,  and  will  let  me  see  that,  had  Fortune  made 
you  a  Minister  of  State,  you  would  have  been  an  able 
and  expeditious  one.  I  allow  you  a  day  to  three  sheets. 
Transmit  to  Wyvill  six,  and  six  to  me,  [with]  your 
remarks.  Pray  be  my  Atticus.  I  am  very  near  well. 
I  go  west  on  Wednesday.  There  is  again  a  little 
silence  in  the  Princess.  Compliments  to  Mrs.  Temple. 

Ever  yours, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


116  LETTERS    OF    BOS  WELL. 


30.]  Adamtown,  5tk  November,  1767. 

My  dear  Temple, 

The  pleasure  of  your  countenance,  in  reading  the 
date  of  this  letter,  is  before  me  at  this  moment.  I 
imagine  it  cannot  be  less  than  I  felt  glowing  in  my 
eyes  when  I  received  the  last  of  your  letters,  with  the 
elegant,  and,  I  am  fully  persuaded,  sincere  commenda- 
tions of  my  '  Corsican  Journal.'  In  short,  I  am  sitting 
in  the  room  with  my  Princess,  who  is  at  this  moment 
a  finer  woman  than  ever  she  appeared  to  me  before. 
But,  my  valuable  friend,  be  not  too  certain  of  your 
Boswell's  felicity,  for  indeed  he  has  little  of  it  at  pre- 
sent, You  must  know  that  Miss  Blair's  silence,  which 
I  mentioned  to  you,  was  a  silence  notwithstanding  of 
my  having  written  three  letters  to  her,  and — (here 
supper  interrupted  me ;  the  rest  is  written  in  my  own 
room,  the  same  where  you  slept) — when  a  former  quar- 
rel should  have  taught  her  that  she  had  a  lover  of  an 
anxious  temper.  For  ten  days  I  was  in  a  fever,  but 
at  last  I  broke  the  enchantment.  However  I  would 
not  be  too  sullen  in  my  pride ;  I  wrote  to  her  from 
Auchinleck,  and  wished  her  joy,  etc. ;  she  answered 
me,  with  the  same  ease  as  ever,  that  I  had  no  occa- 
sion. I  then  wrote  her  a  strange  Sultanish  letter, 
very  cold  and  very  formal,  and  did  not  go  to  see  her 
for  near  three  weeks.  At  last  I  atn  here,  and  our 
meeting  has  been  such  as  you  paint  in  your  last  but 
one.  I  have  been  here  one  night ;  she  insisted  on  my 
staying  another.  I  am  dressed  in  green  and  gold.  I 


COSTUME    OF    A    LOVER.  117 

have  my  chaise,  in  which  I  sit  alone  like  Mr.  Gray, 
and  Thomas  rides  by  me  in  a  claret-coloured  suit  with 
a  silver-laced  hat.  But  the  Princess  and  I  have  not 
yet  made  up  our  quarrel ;  she  talks  lightly  of  it.  I 
am  resolved  to  have  a  serious  conversation  with  her 
tomorrow  morning.  If  she  can  still  remain  indifferent 
as  to  what  has  given  me  much  pain,  sh*?  is  not  the 
woman  I  thought  her,  and  from  tomorrow  morning 
shall  I  be  severed  from  her  as  a  lover.  I  shall  just 
bring  myself,  I  hope,  to  a  good,  easy  tranquillity.  If 
she  feels  as  I  wish  her  to  do,  I  shall  adore  her  while 
my  blood  is  warm.  You  shall  hear  fully  from  Au- 
chinleck. 

We  have  talked  a  great  deal  of  you.  She  has  made 
me  laugh  heartily,  with  her  ideas  of  you  before  you 
arrived, — an  old  friend,  an  English  clergyman.  She 
imagined  she  was  to  see  a  fat  man,  with  a  large  white 
whig,  a  man  something  like  Mr.  Whitefield.  Upon 
honour,  she  said  so ;  but  she  and  Mrs.  Blair  were 
quite  charmed  with  the  young  parson,  with  his  neat 
black  periwig  and  his  polite  address.  They  send  you 
a  thousand  compliments.  With  my  best  compliments 

to  Mrs.  Temple, 

I  am,  ever  yours, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


Boswell,  having  heard  three  people  at  Ayr  agree  in 
abusing  the  young  lady  to  whom  he  was  so  devoted 
and  was  paying  his  addresses,  and  growing  tired  of 


118  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

his  position  towards  her,  now  determines  to  give  up 
the  "  Scots  lass,"  and  hopes  "  to  find  an  Englishwoman 
who  will  be  sensible  of  my  merit,  and  will  strive  to 
please  my  singular  humour." 

31.]  Auchinleck,  Sunday,  8th  November,  1767. 

My  dear  Friend, 

I  wrote  you  from  Adamtown,  and  told  you  how  it 
was  with  the  Princess  and  me.     Next  morning  I  told 
her  that  I  had  complained  to  you  that  she  would 
not  make  up  our  last  quarrel ;  but  she  did  not  appear 
in  the  least  inclined  to  own  herself  in  the  wrong.     I 
confess  that,  between  pride  and  love,  I  was  unable  to 
speak  to  her  but  in  a  very  awkward  manner.     I  came 
home  on  Friday ;  yesterday  I  was  extremely  uneasy. 
That  I  might  give  her  a  fair  opportunity,  I  sent  her  a 
letter,  of  which  I  enclose  you  a  copy.    Could  the  proud 
Bos  well  say  more  than  you  will  see  there?     In  the 
evening  I  got  her  answer  :  it  was  written  with  an  art 
and  indifference  astonishing  from  so  young  a  lady.    "  I 
have  not  yet  found  out  that  I  was  to  blame.    If  you 
have  been  uneasy  on  my  account,  I  am  indeed  sorry 
for  it ;  I  should  be  sorry  to  give  any  person  uneasi- 
ness, far  more  one  whose  cousin  and  friend  I  shall  al- 
ways be."   She  refused  sending  me  the  lock,  "  because 
(in  the  eyes  of  the  world)  it  is  improper;"  and  she 
says  very  cool  things  upon  that  head.     What  think 
you  of  such  a  return  to  a  letter  full  of  warmth  and 
admiration  ?     In  short,  Temple,  she  is  cunning,  and 
sees  my  weakness.     But  I  now  see  her,  and  though  I 


FEVER    OF    LOVE.  119 

cannot  but  suffer  severely,  I  from  this  moment  resolve 
to  think  no  more  of  her.  I  send  you  the  copy  of  a 
note  which  goes  to  her  tomorrow  morning.  Wish  me 
joy,  my  good  friend,  of  having  discovered  the  snake 
before  it  was  too  late.  I  should  have  been  ruined  had 
I  made  such  a  woman  my  wife.  Luckily  for  me,  a 
neighbour  who  came  to  Auchinleck  last  night  told  me 
that  he  had  heard  three  people  at  Ayr  agree  in  abu- 
sing her  as  a  jilt.  What  a  risk  have  I  run !  How- 
ever, as  there  is  still  a  possibility  that  all  this  may 
be  mistake  and  malice,  I  shall  behave  to  her  in  a 
very  respectful  manner,  and  shall  never  say  a  word 
against  her  but  to  you.  After  this,  I  shall  be  upon 
my  guard  against  ever  indulging  the  least  fondness 
for  a  Scots  lass ;  I  am  a  soul  of  a  more  southern 
frame.  I  may  perhaps  be  fortunate  enough  to  find 
an  Englishwoman  who  will  be  sensible  of  my  merit, 
and  will  study  to  please  my  singular  humour.  By 
what  you  write  of  Mrs.  Temple,  I  wish  I  had  such  a 
wife,  though  indeed  your  temper  is  so  much  better 
than  mine  that  perhaps  she  and  I  would  have  quar- 
relled before  this  time,  had  we  been  married  when 
you  were.  Love  is  a  perfect  fever  of  the  mind.  I 
question  if  any  man  has  been  more  tormented  with  it 
than  myself.  Even  at  this  moment,  as  I  write,  my 
heart  is  torn  by  vexing  thoughts  of  this  fine  Princess 
of  ours  ;  but  I  may  take  comfort,  since  I  have  so  often 
recovered. 

You  are  too  hard  upon  me  in  judging  of  the^differ- 
ences  between  father  and  son.     I  never  wrote  to  him 


120  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

that  I  would  take  no  pleasure  in  country  affairs  till  he 
was  dead ;  I  said  indeed  that  I  should  hardly  give  my 
mind  to  them  till  I  had  a  place  of  my  own ;  and,  I 
added,  Auchinleck  will  be  well  taken  care  of  while 
you  live,  and  you  may  be  assured  that  it  shall  not  be 
neglected  when  you  are  gone.  You  see  how  a  temper 
anyhow  out  of  tune  can  interpret.  Perhaps  I  do  the 
same  by  the  Princess  ;  however  I  promise  you  I  shall 
be  conscientious  in  doing  a  great  deal  to  make  my 
worthy  father  easy  and  happy.  He  and  I  are  at  pre- 
sent very  well ;  it  is  merely  a  jarring  of  temper  which 
occasions  our  difficulties. 

One  word  more  of  the  Princess.  The  two  last  days 
I  was  with  her  she  was  more  engaging  than  you  can 
conceive.  She  and  I  had  the  most  agreeable  conver- 
sation together,  and  she  assured  me  she  was  not  going 
to  be  married  to  any  other  man;  and  yet,  Temple, 
with  what  a  cold  reserve  does  she  behave !  Let  her  go ! 

Do  you  know  I  had  a  letter  from  Zelide  the  other 
day,  written  in  English,  and  showing  that  an  old 
flame  is  easily  rekindled ;  but  you  will  not  hear  of 
her, — what  say  you  ?  Ah !  my  friend,  shall  I  have 
Miss  Bosville?  You  see,  I  am  the  old  man.  I  am 
much  obliged  to  you  for  your  remarks  on  my  '  Cor- 
sican  Journal.'  Please  return  the  letters  enclosed.  My 
compliments  to  Mrs.  Temple. 

Ever  yours, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


TAINT    OF    INSANITY.  121 

32.]  Strathaven,  Wi  November,  1767. 

My  ever  dear  Temple, 

Having  left  Auchinleck  this  morning  in  a  hurry,  I 
brought  my  letters  to  you  in  my  pocket  so  far  on 
the  road ;  and,  as  your  kind  packet  of  the  30th  Oc- 
tober has  overtaken  me,  I  have  opened  one  of  my 
letters,  and  add  a  few  lines.  Upon  my  soul,  tile  mad- 
ness, of  which  I  have  a  strong  degree  in  my  compo- 
sition, is  at  present  so  heightened  by  love,  that  I  am 
absolutely  deprived  of  judgement.  How  could  I  pos- 
sibly be  in  a  rage  at  the  Princess's  last  letter  !  I  now 
sit  calmly  in  this  village,  and  read  it  with  delight; 
what  could  she  do  more?  Like  you,  she  thought  I 
eould  not  expect  to  hear  from  her  when  she  expected 
me  every  day  at  Adamtown ;  therefore  she  was  not 
to  blame,  and  she  had  too  much  spirit  to  own  herself 
in  the  wrong  when  she  was  conscious  of  no  fault.  Yet 
how  amiably  does  she  comply  with  my  request,  and 
tell  me  that  she  is  sorry  that  I  have  been  uneasy  on 
her  account.  "  I  shall  always  be  a  cousin  and  friend. 
I  hope  you  will  not  look  upon  this  as  a  new  quarrel." 
I  love  her,  Temple,  with  my  whole  heart ;  I  am  en- 
tirely in  her  power.  Were  she  a  woman  of  such  a 
temper  as  I  have,  how  might  she  fret  against  me ! 
"  He  comes  to  Auchinleck,  and  is  near  three  weeks 
without  coming  to  see  me.  When  he  comes,  not  a 
tender  word,  not  one  expression  of  a  lover.  How  can 
I  allow  my  affections  to  fix  on  such  a  man?"  She 
has  defended  herself  very  well  in  refusing  me  the 
lock  ;  I  shall  get  it  from  her  at  Edinburgh.  Oh,  my 


122  LETTERS    OF    BOS  WELL. 

friend,  be  watchful  over  me  in  this  precious  period ! 
If  she  does  not  write  to  me,  she  is  certainly  unfeeling, 
and  I  must  at  any  price  preserve  my  own  character ; 
if  she  writes  as  I  can  imagine,  I  will  consecrate  my- 
self to  her  for  ever.  I  must  have  her  to  learn  the 
harpsichord  and  French ;  she  shall  be  one  of  the  first 
women  in  the  island.  But  let  me  take  care ;  I  know 
not  what  is  in  store.  Do  you  think  it  possible  she 
can  have  any  scheme  of  marrying  another?  I  will 
not  suspect  her.  Your  remarks  are  of  great  service 
to  me.  I  am  glad  you  show  my  '  Journal'  to  Lord 
Lisburne;  but  I  must  have  my  great  preceptor,  Mr. 
Johnson,  introduced  :  Lord  Hailes  has  approved  of  it. 
Temple,  I  wish  to  be  at  last  an  uniform,  pretty  man. 
I  am  astonishingly  so  already,  but  I  wish  to  be  a  man 
who  deserves  Miss  B.  (by  the  bye,  your  expression, 
"Be  perpetually  with  Miss  B.,"  is  fine;  it  made 
me  more  affectionate  towards  you  than  ever).  I  am 
always  for  fixing  some  period  for  my  perfection  as  far 
as  possible.  Let  it  be  when  my  account  of  Corsica  is 
published ;  I  shah1  then  have  a  character  which  I  must 
support.  I  will  swear,  like  an  ancient  disciple  of  Py- 
thagoras, to  observe  silence ;  I  will  be  grave  and  re- 
served, though  cheerful  and  communicative,  of  what  is 
verum  atque  decens.  One  great  fault  of  mine  is  talk- 
ing at  random ;  I  will  guard  against  it.  My  feudal 
Seigneurs  are  printed  off  in  the  account.  Adieu,  my 
best  friend !  I  thank  God  for  such  a  friend. 

Ever  yours, 

J.  B. 


NEGOTIATIONS    CONTINUED.  123 

33.]  Edinburgh,  I6th  December,  1767. 

My  dear  Temple, 

You  have  reason  to  blame  me  for  a  too  long  silence, 
after  having  received  all  your  friendly  remarks  on  my 
'  Journal/  and  while  you  was  uncertain  as  to  my  nego- 
tiations with  the  Princess.     I  am.  sincerely  obliged  to 
you  for  polishing  nay  Corsican  monument ;  it  is  now 
complete,  and  I  would  fain  hope  it  will  do  both  the 
brave  islanders  and  myself  a  great  deal  of  honour. 
As  to  the  Princess,  I  sent  the  letter  which  you  re- 
turned.    She  did  not  write,  but  bid  her  aunt  tell  me 
that  she  and  I  were  as  good  friends  as  ever.    This  did 
not  satisfy  me,  and  for  several  weeks  did  I  strive  to 
break  my  chain ;  at  last  she  came  to  town,  and  I  have 
had  a  long  conversation  with  her.     She  assured  me 
she  did  not  believe  me  serious,  or  that  I  was  uneasy, 
and  that  it  was  my  own  fault  if  ever  she  and  I  quar- 
relled; I  in  short  adored  her,  and  was  convinced  she 
was  not  to  blame.     I  told  her  that  henceforth  she 
would  entertain  no  doubt  that  I  sincerely  loved  her, 
and,  Temple,  I  ventured  to  seize  her  hand.     She  is 
really  the  finest  woman  to  me  I  ever  saw.     I  am  just 
now  going  to  meet  her  at  the  concert,  after  which  I 
sup  with  her  at  Lord  Kaimes's,  along  with  her  cousin 
the  beautiful  young  Duchess  of  Gordon  ;  I  am  there- 
fore in  a  hurry  and  a  flutter,  and  must  break  off,  but 
in  a  day  or  two  I  shall  write  you  fully.    In  the  mean- 
time, my  friend,  wish  me  joy  of  my  present  peace  of 
mind,  and  make  my  compliments  to  the  woman  to 


124  LETTERS    OF    BOS  WELL. 

whom  I  see  you  owe  a  great  deal.     Adieu,  my  best 
friend ! 

Ever  yours, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


34.]  Edinburgh,  24tk  December,  1767. 

My  dearest  Friend, 

In  my  last  I  told  you  that,  after  I  had  resolved  to 
give  up  with  the  Princess  for  ever,  I  resolved  first  to 
see  her.  I  was  so  lucky  as  to  have  a  very  agreeable 
interview,  and  was  convinced  by  her  that  she  was  not 
to  blame.  This  happened  on  a  Thursday ;  that  even- 
ing her  cousin  and  most  intimate  friend,  the  Duchess 
of  Gordon,  came  to  town.  Next  day  I  was  at  the 
concert  with  them,  and  afterwards  supped  at  Lord 
Kaimes's.  The  Princess  appeared  distant  and  re- 
served ;  I  could  hardly  believe  that  it  was  the  same 
woman  with  whom  I  had  been  quite  easy  the  day 
before ;  I  was  then  uneasy.  Next  evening  I  was  at 
the  Play  with  them ;  it  was  '  Othello.'  I  sat  close 
behind  the  Princess,  and  at  the  most  affecting  scenes 
I  pressed  my  hand  upon  her  waist ;  she  was  in  tears, 
and  rather  leaned  to  me.  The  jealous  Moor  described 
my  very  soul.  I  often  spoke  to  her  of  the  torment 
she  saw  before  her ;  still  I  thought  her  distant,  and 
still  I  felt  uneasy.  On  Sunday  the  Duchess  went 
away.  I  met  the  Princess  at  church;  she  was  dis- 
tant as  before.  I  passed  the  evening  at  her  aunt's, 
where  I  met  a  cousin  of  my  Princess,  a  young  lady 
of  Glasgow,  who  had  been  with  us  at  Adamtown. 


A    DIALOGUE.  125 

She  told  me  she  had  something  to  communicate,  and 
she  then  said  my  behaviour  to  the  Princess  was  such, 
that  Mrs.  B.  and  her  daughter  did  not  know  how  to 
behave  to  me ;  that  it  was  not  honourable  to  engage 
a  young  lady's  affections  while  I  kept  myself  free ;  in 
short,  the  good  cousin  persuaded  me  that  the  Princess 
had  formed  an  attachment  for  me,  and  she  assured  me 
the  Nabob  had  been  refused.  On  Monday  forenoon 
I  waited  on  Miss  B.  I  found  her  alone,  and  she  did 
not  seem  distant ;  I  told  her  that  I  was  most  sincerely 
in  love  with  her,  and  that  I  only  dreaded  those  faults 
which  I  had  acknowledged  to  her.  I  asked  her  seri- 
ously if  she  now  believed  me  in  earnest.  She  said  she 
did.  I  then  asked  her  to  be  candid  and  fair,  as  I  had 
been  with  her,  and  to  tell  me  if  she  had  any  particular 
liking  for  me.  What  think  you,  Temple,  was  her  an- 
swer? "No;  I  really  have  no  particular  liking  for 
you ;  I  like  many  people  as  well  as  you."  Temple, 
you  must  have  it  in  the  genuine  dialogue. 

Boswett. — Do  you  indeed  ?  Well,  I  cannot  help  it ; 
I  am  obliged  to  you  for  telling  me  so  in  time.  I  am 
sorry  for  it. 

Princess. — I  like  Jeany  Maxwell  (Duchess  of  Gor- 
don) better  than  you. 

J3. — Very  well ;  but  do  you  like  no  man  better 
than  me  ? 

P.— No. 

£. — Is  it  possible  that  you  may  like  me  better  than 
other  men  ? 

P. — I  don't  know  what  is  possible. 


126  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

(By  this  time  I  had  risen  and  placed  myself  by  her, 
and  was  in  real  agitation.) 

B. — I  '11  tell  you  what,  my  dear  Miss  Blair,  I  love 
you  so  much  that  I  am  very  unhappy  if  you  cannot 
love  me.  I  must,  if  possible,  endeavour  to  forget  you. 
What  would  you  have  me  do  ? 

P. — I  really  don't  know  what  you  should  do. 

B. — It  is  certainly  possible  that  you  may  love  me ; 
and  if  you  shall  ever  do  so,  I  shall  be  the  happiest 
man  in  the  world.  Will  you  make  a  fair  bargain  with 
me  ?  If  you  should  happen  to  love  me,  will  you  own  it  ? 

P.— Yes. 

B. — And  if  you  should  happen  to  love  another,  will 
you  tell  me  immediately,  and  help  me  to  make  myself 
easy? 

P.— Yes,  I  will. 

B. — Well,  you  are  very  good  (often  squeezing  and 
kissing  her  fine  hand,  while  she  looked  at  me  with 
those  beautiful  black  eyes). 

P. — I  may  tell  you,  as  a  cousin,  what  I  would  not 
tell  to  another  man. 

B. — You  may  indeed.  You  are  very  fond  of  Au- 
chinleck,  that  is  one  good  circumstance. 

P. — I  confess  I  am.  I  wish  I  liked  you  as  well  as 
I  do  Auchinleck. 

B. — I  have  told  you  how  fond  I  am  of  you ;  but 
unless  you  like  me  sincerely,  I  have  too  much  spirit  to 
ask  you  to  live  with  me,  as  I  know  that  you  do  not 
like  me.  If  I  could  have  you  this  moment  for  my  wife, 
I  would  not. 


A    DIALOGUE.  127 

P. — I  should  not  like  to  put  myself  in  your  offer 
though. 

B. — Remember,  you  are  both  my  cousin  and  my 
mistress,  you  must  make  me  suffer  as  little  as  pos- 
sible, as  it  may  happen  that  I  may  engage  your  affec- 
tions. I  should  think  myself  a  most  dishonourable 
man  if  I  were  not  now  in  earnest,  and,  remember,  I 
depend  upon  your  sincerity ;  and  whatever  happens, 
you  and  I  shall  never  have  another  quarrel. 

P. — Never. 

B. — And  I  may  come  and  see  you  as  much  as  I 
please  ? 

P.— Yes. 

My  worthy  friend,  what  sort  of  a  scene  was  this? 
It  was  most  curious.  She  said  she  would  submit  to 
her  husband  in  most  things.  She  said  that  to  see  one 
loving  her  would  go  far  to  make  her  love  that  person ; 
but  she  would  not  talk  anyhow  positively,  for  she 
never  had  felt  the  uneasy  anxiety  of  love.  We  were 
an  hour  and  a  half  together,  and  seemed  pleased  all 
the  time.  I  think  she  behaved  with  spirit  and  pro- 
priety. I  admire  her  more  than  ever.  She  intended 
to  go  to  her  aunt's,  twelve  miles  from  town,  next  day : 
her  jaunt  was  put  off  for  some  days.  Yesterday  I  saw 
her  again;  I  was  easy  and  cheerful,  and  just  endea- 
voured to  make  myself  agreeable. 

This  forenoon  I  was  again  with  her.  I  told  her  how 
uneasy  I  was  that  she  should  be  three  weeks  absent. 
She  said  I  might  amuse  myself  well  enough:  she 
seemed  quite  indifferent.  I  was  growing  angry  again, 


128  LETTERS    OF    BOS  WELL. 

but  I  recollected  how  she  had  candidly  told  me  that 
she  had  no  particular  liking  for  me. 

Temple,  where  am  I  now  ?  What  is  the  meaning 
of  this  ?  I  drank  tea  with  her  this  afternoon,  and  sat 
near  four  hours  with  her  mother  and  her.  Our  con- 
versation turned  all  on  the  manner  in  which  two 
people  might  live.  She  has  the  justest  ideas.  She 
said  she  knew  me  now  ;  she  could  laugh  me  out  of  my 
ill-humour ;  she  could  give  Lord  Auchinleck  a  lesson 
how  to  manage  me.  Temple,  what  does  the  girl  mean  ? 
We  talked  a  good  deal  of  you :  you  are  a  prodigious 
favourite.  Now,  my  worthy  friend,  assist  me.  You 
know  my  strange  temper  and  impetuous  disposition ; 
shall  I  boldly  shake  her  off,  as  I  fear  I  cannot  be  pa- 
tient and  moderate  ?  or,  am  I  not  bound  in  honour  to 
suffer  some  time,  and  watch  her  heart  ?  How  long 
must  I  suffer?  how  must  I  do?  When  she  comes 
back,  shall  I  affect  any  indifference,  to  try  her?  or, 
shall  I  rather  endeavour  to  inspire  her  with  my  flame  ? 
Is  it  not  below  me  to  be  made  uneasy  by  her  ?  or,  may 
I  not  be  a  philosopher,  and,  without  uneasiness,  take 
her,  if  she  likes  me,  and  if  not,  let  her  alone  ?  During 
her  absence,  I  have  time  to  get  a  return  from  you. 
It  is  certainly  possible  that  all  she  has  said  may  be 
literally  true  ;  but  is  not  her  indifference  a  real  fault  ? 
Consult  Mrs.  Temple,  and  advise  me.  Amidst  all  this 
love,  I  have  been  wild  as  ever.  Trust 

me  in  time  coming ;  I  give  you  my  word  of  honour, 
Temple  :  I  have  nothing  else  to  save  me. 

I  have  this  day  received  a  large  packet  from  Paoli, 


CORSICAN    COMPLIMENTS.  129 

with  a  letter,  an  elegant  letter,  from  the  University  of 
Corte,  and  also  an  extract  of  an  oration  pronounced 
this  year  at  the  opening  of  the  University,  in  which 
oration  I  am  celebrated  in  a  manner  which  does  me 
the  greatest  honour.  I  think,  Temple,  I  have  had  my 
full  share  of  fame ;  yet  my  book  is  still  to  come,  and 
I  cannot  doubt  its  doing  me  credit.  Come,  why  do 
I  allow  myself  to  be  uneasy  for  a  Scots  lass  ?  Rouse 
me,  my  friend !  Kate  has  not  fire  enough  ;  she  does 
not  know  the  value  of  her  lover !  If  on  her  return 
she  still  remains  cold,  she  does  not  deserve  me.  I  will 
not  quarrel  with  her :  she  cannot  help  her  defects  : 
but  I  will  break  my  enchanting  fetters.  Tomorrow  I 
shall  be  happy  with  my  devotions.  I  shall  think  of 
you,  and  wish  to  be  at  Mamhead.  Could  you  assist 
me  to  keep  up  my  real  dignity  among  the  illiberal  race 
of  Scots  lawyers  ?  Adieu,  my  dearest  friend !  My  best 
compliments  to  your  amiable  spouse. 

J.  B. 


130 


CHAPTER  VI. 

1768-1773. 

BOSWELL  MARRIES. — DR.  JOHNSON'S  OPINION  OF  MRS.  BOSWELL. 
— UXORIANA. — 'ACCOUNT  OF  CORSICA.' — TRIP  TO  IRELAND. — 
ADVERTISES  HIS  FASHIONABLE  VISITS.— SHAKSPEARE  JUBILEE. 
— RESIDES  AT  EDINBURGH. —  ELECTED  A  MEMBER  OF  "THE 
CLUB." — LOVE  AFFAIRS  BEFORE  HIS  MARRIAGE. — THE  PRIN- 
CESS AGAIN  AND  THE  NABOB.  —  CORRESPONDS  WITH  "  THE 
CHARMING  DUTCHWOMAN." — SUCCESS  OF  '  ACCOUNT  OF  COR- 
SICA.'i—  SETS  UP  HIS  CHARIOT.  —  VISITS  FROM  HUME  AND 

JOHNSON. — ROBERTSON'S  'CHARLES  v.' — "LA  BELLE  IRLAN- 
DAISE." — MENTAL  CONFLICT. — LETTERS  FROM  THE  MARRIED 
BOSWELL. — HUME  UPON  HISTORY. — BIRTH  AND  DEATH  OF  A 
SON. — BOSWELL'S  MARRIED  LIFE. 

ANOTHER  very  considerable  interval  here  occurs  in  the 
correspondence :  this  period  of  Boswell's  life  was  how- 
ever a  very  important  one.  The  most  remarkable  and 
fortunate  step  which  he  took  was  perhaps  in  the  au- 
tumn of  1769,  when  he  married  Miss  Margaret  Mont- 
gomerie,  a  lady  of  whom  frequent  mention  is  made 
in  the  following  letters.  It  would  seem  that  her  hus- 
band had  good  reason  to  be  attached  to  her ;  but  it 
was  not  in  his  nature  to  avoid  making  all  who  had  in- 
timate relation  with  him  more  or  less  ridiculous.  For 
example,  in  his  political  pamphlet,  the  '  Letter  to  the 


MISS    MONTGOMERIE.  131 

People  of  Scotland/  we  find  his  wife  paraded  in  the 
midst  of  the  writer's  patriotic  eloquence,  in  order  to 
gratify  his  egotism.  The  passage  occurs  when  he  is 
speaking  of  the  Earl  of  Eglintoun  and  his  friends : 
— "  Amongst  those  friends,"  says  he,  "  I  myself  am 
one  of  the  warmest,  both  as  an  enthusiast  for  ancient 
feudal  attachment,  and  as  having  the  honour  and  hap- 
piness to  be  married  to  his  Lordship's  relation,  a  true 
Montgomerie,  whom  I  esteem,  whom  I  love,  after  fifteen 
years,  as  on  the  day  when  she  gave  me  her  hand." 
Again,  in  the  same  letter,  he  describes  "that  brave 
Irishman,"  Captain  Macbride,  as  "the  cousin  of  my 
wife  and  the  friend  of  my  heart." 

We  find  Dr.  Johnson's  opinion  of  the  lady  in  a  let- 
ter to  Mrs.  Thrale;*  but  the  learned  lexicographer's 
opinion  was  more  valuable  and  trustworthy  perhaps 
upon  many  other  subjects  than  when  he  took  it  upon 
himself  to  pass  judgement  upon  the  wives  of  his 
friends,  or  indeed  ori  ladies  in  general.  Dr.  Johnson 
describes  Mrs.  Boswell  as  having  "  the  mien  and 
manner  of  a  gentlewoman,  and  such  a  person  and  mind 
as  would  not  in  any  place  either  be  admired  or  con- 
demned. She  is,  in  a  proper  degree,  inferior  to  her 
husband ;  she  cannot  rival  him,  nor  can  he  ever  be 
ashamed  of  her."  One  can  hardly  accept  the  compa- 
rison in  favour  of  Boswell  in  its  full  signification,  for 
there  is  no  ground  for  believing  that  she  made  herself 
either  contemptible  or  ridiculous. 

Boswell  kept  a  book  which  he  called  '  Uxoriana,'  in 

*  August  23rd,  1773. 

K   2 


132  LETTERS   OF    BO  SWELL. 

which  the  "  good  things"  his  wife  said  were  preserved. 
Some  of  these,  although  at  the  husband's  expense,  were 
duly  recorded.  Thus,  with  reference  to  his  indiscri- 
minate admiration  of  Johnson,  she  remarks,  that  she 
had  often  seen  a  bear  led  by  a  man,  but  never  before 
a  man  led  by  a  bear.  Mrs.  Boswell,  it  would  seem, 
endeavoured  by  her  sarcasm  thus  to  check  her  hus- 
band's absurd  vanity,  but  not  always  without  irritating 
him.  On  one  occasion  he  says,  when  "  I  was  warm, 
telling  of  my  own  consequence  and  generosity,  my  wife 
made  some  cool,  humbling  remark  upon  me ;  I  flew 
into  a  violent  passion  ;  I  said,  '  If  you  throw  cold  water 
upon  a  plate  of  iron  much  heated,  it  will  crack  into 
shivers.'  "* 

There  was  apparently  no  great  mutual  regard  be- 
tween Dr.  Johnson  and  Mrs.  Boswell.  The  reader  of 
the  Life  of  the  "  big  man"  (as  Goldsmith  calls  him)  will 
remember  a  letter  in  which,  after  narrating  his  safe  re- 
turn from  his  tour  in  Scotland  "  without  any  incommo- 
dity,  danger,  or  weariness,"  he  tells  Boswell,  with  refer- 
ence to  his  departure  from  Auchinleck,  "  I  know  Mrs. 
Boswell  wished  me  well  to  go;  her  wishes  have  not 
been  disappointed."  The  foot-note  which  the  biogra- 
pher appends  to  this  rather  surly  observation  on  a  very 
hospitable  host,  is  characteristic.  In  forming  this 
opinion,  he  says,  Dr.  Johnson  "  showed  a  very  acute 
penetration.  My  wife  paid  him  the  most  assiduous 
and  respectful  attention  while  he  was  our  guest,  so 
that  I  wonder  how  he  discovered  her  wishing  his  de- 
*  '  Boswelliana,'  Philobiblion,  vol.  ii. 


IDEAS    OF    A    WIFE.  133 

parture.  The  truth  is,  that  his  irregular  hours  and 
uncouth  habits,  such  as  turning  the  candles  with  their 
heads  downwards  when  they  did  not  burn  bright 
enough,  and  letting  the  wax  drop  on  the  carpet,  could 
not  but  be  disagreeable  to  a  lady ;  besides,  she  had 
not  that  high  admiration  of  him  which  was  felt  by 
most  of  those  who  knew  him;  and,  what  was  very 
natural  to  a  female  mind,  she  thought  he  had  too 
much  influence  over  her  husband.  She  once  in  a 
little  warmth  made,  with  more  point  than  justice,  this 
remark  upon  that  subject," — and  he  then  repeats  the 
simile  just  alluded  to,  of  his  being  led  by  a  bear. 

Boswell  had  not  been  very  successful  in  exciting 
the  Doctor's  interest  in  his  nuptials ;  he  had  at- 
tempted to  connect  usefully  the  two  positions  which  he 
now  claimed  to  occupy, — of  husband  and  biographer. 
He  endeavoured  in  vain  to  persuade  Dr.  Johnson  to 
discourse  of  the  duties  of  a  husband.  "Although," 
says  he,  "I  had  promised  myself  a  great  deal  of  in- 
structive conversation  with  him  on  the  conduct  of  the 
married  state,  of  which  I  had  then  a  near  prospect, 
he  did  not  say  much  upon  that  topic.  Mr.  Seward 
heard  him  once  say,  '  A  man  has  a  very  bad  chance 
for  happiness  in  that  state,  unless  he  marries  a  woman 
of  very  strong  and  fixed  principles  of  religion.'  He 
maintained  to  me,  contrary  to  the  common  notion, 
that  a  woman  would  not  be  the  worse  wife  for  being 
learned ;  in  which,  from  all  that  I  have  observed  of 
Artemisias,  I  humbly  differed  from  him.  That  a 
woman  should  be  sensible  and  well-informed  I  allow 


134  LETTERS    OF    BOS  WELL. 

to  be  a  great  advantage,  and  think  that  Sir  Thomas 
Overbury,  in  his  rude  versification,  has  very  judiciously 
pointed  out  that  degree  of  intelligence  which  is  to  be 
desired  in  a  female  companion  : — 

"  Give  me,  next  good,  an  understanding  wife, 
By  nature  wise,  not  learned  by  much  art ; 

Some  knowledge  on  her  side  will  all  my  life 
More  scope  of  conversation  impart ; 

Besides,  her  unborn  virtue  fortifie ; 

They  are  most  firmly  good  who  best  know  why."* 

Boswell  however  managed  to  procure  and  has  retailed 
some  remarks  on  second  marriages  from  the  Doctor, 
which  is  all  the  success  he  seems  to  have  obtained. 

The  publication,  in  the  Spring  of  1768,  of  Boswell's 
'Account  of  Corsica,  with  Journal  of  his  Tour,'  to 
which  reference  has  already  been  made,  attracted  con- 
siderable attention.  This  gave  the  author  the  most 
lively  joy ;  and  when  General  Paoli  arrived  in  London 
in  the  autumn  of  the  next  year,  Boswell's  ecstasy  was 
excessive ;  he  found  that  it  was  his  "  duty  as  well  as  his 
pleasure  to  attend  much  upon  "  the  hero  of  Corsican 
liberty,  and  accordingly  rendered  himself  superbly 
ridiculous  by  thrusting  himself  on  all  occasions  into 
the  splendour  of  the  General's  reflected  light.  The 
Journal  of  Dr.  Johnson's  conversations  even  languished, 
in  consequence  chiefly  of  the  obsequious  court  which 
Boswell  delighted  to  pay  to  the  distinguished  foreigner. 
From  the  same  cause  perhaps  the  Temple  correspon- 
dence also  may  have  flagged. 

*  '  Life  of  Johnson,'  anno  1769. 


VISIT   TO    IRELAND.  135 

Boswell,  previously  to  his  marriage,  went  over  to 
Ireland,  attracted,  it  may  be,  by  the  "  fair  Irlandaise." 
Some  of  his  doings  are  chronicled  in  the  '  Public  Adver- 
tiser,' and  probably,  as  suggested  by  Mr.  Croker,  with 
his  own  hand.  The  fashionable  subscriber  to  that  paper 
read  on  the  7th  of  July,  1769,*  that,  "  James  Boswell, 
Esq.,  having  now  visited  Ireland,  he  dined  with  his 
Grace  the  Duke  of  Leinster,  at  his  seat  at  Carton ; 
he  went  also,  by  special  invitation,  to  visit  the  Lord- 
Lieutenant  at  his  country-seat  at  Leixlip,  to  which  he 
was  conducted,  in  one  of  his  Excellency's  coaches,  by 
Lieut.-Colonel  Walshe.  He  dined  there,  and  stayed  all 
night,  and  next  morning  came  in  the  coach  with  his 
Excellency  to  the  Phoenix  Park,  and  was  present  at  a 
review  of  Sir  Joseph  Yorke's  dragoons.  He  also  dined 
with  the  Right  Honourable  the  Lord  Mayor.  He  is 
now  set  out  on  his  return  to  Scotland." 

Beside  his  marriage  and  his  parasitical  zeal  in  at- 
tending on  Paoli,  another  event  intensely  exciting  to 
Boswell  was  the  Shakspeare  jubilee  at  Stratford-upon- 
Avori.  In  this  festival  he  took  part  with  his  wonted 
bustle  and  animated  vanity. 

The  '  London  Magazine'  of  September,  1769,  con- 
tains an  amusing  and  characteristic  '  Letter  from  James 
Boswell,  Esq.,  on  the  Jubilee  at  Stratford-upon-Avon ;' 
also  an  '  Account  of  the  Armed  Corsican  Chief  at  the 
Masquerade  at  Shakspeare's  Jubilee,  with  a  fine  whole- 
length  portrait  of  James  Boswell,  Esq.,  in  the  dress 
of  an  Armed  Corsican  Chief,  as  he  appeared  at  the 

*  See  Croker's  edition  of  Boswell's  'Life  of  Dr.  Johnson.' 


136  LETTERS   OF    BOS  WELL. 

Jubilee  Mask.'     The  '  Account/  we  may  assume,  was 
written  by  the  armed  Corsican  chief  himself.     The 
writer  says :  "One  of  the  most  remarkable  masks  upon 
the  occasion  was  James  Boswell,  Esq.,  in  the  dress  of 
an  armed  Corsican  chief.  He  entered  the  amphitheatre 
about  twelve  o'clock ;  he  wore  a  short  dark-coloured 
coat  of  coarse  cloth,  scarlet  waistcoat,  breeches,  and 
black  spatterdashes ;  his  cap  or  bonnet  was  of  black 
cloth ;  on  the  front  of  it  was  embroidered  in  gold 
letters,  '  Viva  la  Liberta,'  and  on  one  side  of  it  was  a 
handsome  blue  feather  and  cockade,  so  that  it  had  an 
elegant  as  well  as  a  warlike  appearance.    On  the  breast 
of  his  coat  was  sewed  a  Moor's  head,  the  crest  of  Cor- 
sica, surrounded  with  branches  of  laurel ;  he  had  also 
a  cartridge-pouch,  into  which  was  stuck  a  stiletto,  and 
on  his  left  side  a  pistol  was  hung  upon  the  belt  of 
his  cartridge-pouch.     He  had  a  fusee  slung  across  his 
shoulder,  wore  no  powder   in  his  hair,  but  had  it 
plaited  at  its  full  length,  with  a  knot  of  blue  ribbons 
at  the  end  of  it.     He  had,  by  way  of  staff,  a  very  cu- 
rious vine,  all  of  one  piece,  with  a  bird  finely  carved 
upon  it,  emblematical  of  the  sweet  bard  of  Avon.    He 
wore  no  mask,  saying  that  it  was  not  proper  for  a 
gallant  Corsican.  So  soon  as  he  came  into  the  room,  he 
drew  universal  attention.    The  novelty  of  the  Corsican 
dress,  its  becoming  appearance,  and  the  character  of 
the  brave  nation,  concurred  to  distinguish  the  armed 
Corsican  chief.    He  was  first  accosted  by  Mr.  Garrick, 
with  whom  he  had  a  good  deal  of  conversation.   There 
was  an  admirable  dialogue  between  Lord  Grosvenor, 


THE  SHAKSPEARE    JUBILEE.  137 

in  the  character  of  a  Turk,  and  the  Corsican,  on  the 
different  constitution  of  the  countries  so  opposite  to 
each  other, — Despotism  and  Liberty ;  and  Captain 
Thomson,  of  the  navy,  in  the  character  of  an  honest 
tar,  kept  it  up  very  well ;  he  expressed  a  strong  incli- 
nation to  stand  by  the  brave  Islanders.  Mr.  Bos  well 
danced  both  a  minuet  and  country- dance  with  a  very 
pretty  Irish  lady,  Mrs.  Sheldon,  wife  to  Captain  Shel- 
don of  the  38th  Foot  (Lord  Blany) ;  she  was  dressed 
in  a  genteel  domino,  and  before  she  danced  threw  off 
her  mask.  Mr.  Boswell  having  come  to  the  Jubilee  to 
contribute  his  share  towards  what  he  called  a  classical 
institution  in  honour  of  Shakspeare,  being  also  desirous 
of  paying  compliment  to  Mr.  Garrick,  with  whom  he 
has  always  been  on  a  most  agreeable  footing,  and  never 
unmindful  of  the  cause  which  he  has  espoused,  he 
wrote  the  following  verses,  which,  it  is  thought,  are 
well  suited  to  the  occasion,  while,  at  the  same  time, 
they  preserved  the  true  Corsican  character." 

It  would  be  asking  too  much  of  any  one  to  peruse 
these  lines ;  it  will  suffice  to  say  that  they  commenced 

thus : — 

"  From  the  rude  banks  of  Golo's  rapid  flood, 
.  .  .  Behold  a  Corsican ! " 

and  having  affirmed  that 

"  In  man's  firm  breast  concealed  its  grief  should  lie, 
Which  melts  with  grace  in  woman's  gentle  eye;" 

he  begs  his  countrymen  to 

"  Give  to  Corsica  a  noble  jubilee ; " 
and  so  concludes. 

Boswell  and  his  wife  were  now  residing  in  Scotland, 


138  LETTERS   OF    BOSWELL. 

and  we  do  not  hear  much  of  him,  either  in  his  corre- 
spondence with  Mr.  Temple  or  as  Dr.  Johnson's  bio- 
grapher. In  a  letter  to  the  latter,  dated  Edinburgh, 
1771,  he  says: — "Although  I  am  conscious  that  my 
veneration  and  love  for  Mr.  Johnson  have  never  in  the 
least  abated,  yet  I  have  deferred  for  almost  a  year 
and  a  half  to  write  to  him."  In  the  Spring  of  1772, 
however,  he  returned  to  London  and  its  society  for  a 
few  months ;  he  repeated  his  visit  the  following  Spring, 
and  was  proposed  as  a  candidate  for  the  Literary  Club, 
at  Dr.  Johnson's  instance,  on  April  30th,  1773,  and 
duly  elected.  "  I  was  left,"  says  he,  "  at  Beauclerk's 
till  the  fate  of  my  election  should  be  announced  to 
me.  I  sat  in  a  state  of  anxiety,  which  even  the  charm- 
ing conversation  of  Lady  de  Beauclerk  could  not  en- 
tirely dissipate.  In  a  short  time  I  received  the  agree- 
able intelligence  that  I  was  chosen.  I  hastened  to  the 
place  of  meeting,  and  was  introduced  to  such  a  society 
as  can  seldom  be  found :  Mr.  Edmund  Burke,  whom 
I  then  saw  for  the  first  time,  and  whose  splendid 
talents  had  long  made  me  ardently  wish  for  his  ac- 
quaintance ;  Dr.  Nugent,  Mr.  Garrick,  Dr.  Goldsmith, 
Mr.  (afterwards  Sir  William)  Jones,  and  the  company 
with  whom  I  had  dined  (at  Mr.  Beauclerk's).  Upon 
my  entrance  Johnson  placed  himself  behind  a  chair, 
on  which  he  leaned  as  on  a  desk  or  pulpit,  and  with 
humorous  formality  gave  me  a  charge,  pointing  out 
the  conduct  expected  from  me  as  a  good  member  of 
this  Club."* 

*  See  '  Life  of  Johnson,'  anno  1773.     It  is  said  by  Mr.  Croker, 


ROMANCE    WITH    MISS    BLAIR.  139 

We  have  anticipated  events  in  referring  here  to  his 
marriage ;  before  that  happy  occurrence  took  place, 
several  other  passages  of  love  were  rehearsed,  as  will 
be  seen  in  the  following  letters. 


35.]  Edinburgh.,  %th  February,  1768. 

My  dear  Friend, 

All  is  over  between  Miss  Blair  and  me.  I  have  de- 
layed writing  till  I  could  give  you  some  final  account. 
About  a  fortnight  after  she  went  to  the  country,  a  re- 
port went  that  she  was  going  to  be  married  to  Sir 
Alexander  Gilmour,  member  of  Parliament  for  the 
county  of  Mid-Lothian,  a  young  man  about  thirty,  who 
has  £1600  a  year  of  estate,  was  formerly  an  officer  in 
the  Guards,  and  is  now  one  of  the  clerks  of  the  Board 
of  Green  Cloth,  £1000  a  year, — in  short,  a  noble 
match,  though  a  man  of  expense,  and  obliged  to 
lead  a  London  life.  After  the  fair  agreement  between 
her  and  me,  which  I  gave  you  fully  in  my  last,  I  had 
a  title  to  know  the  truth.  I  wrote  to  her  seriously, 
and  told  her,  if  she  did  not  write  me  an  answer  I 
should  believe  the  report  to  be  true.  After  three  days 
I  concluded,  from  her  silence,  that  she  was  at  least 
engaged.  I  endeavoured  to  laugh  off  my  passion,  and 

on  the  authority  of  Mr.  Milman,  who  examined  the  records  of  the 
Club  with  special  view  of  ascertaining  the  frequency  of  the  visits  of 
both  Boswell  and  Dr.  Johnson  at  the  Club,  that  the  two  only  met 
at  the  Club  some  seven  or  eight  times.  The  last  occasion  was 
June  22nd,  1784.  Boswell  indeed  does  not  appear  to  have  been 
one  of  those  who  regularly  attended  the  evening  meetings,  even 
when  he  was -visiting  London. 


140  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

I  got  Sir  Alexander  Gilmour  to  frank  a  letter  to  her, 
which  I  wrote  in  a  pleasant  strain,  and  amused  myself 
with  the  whim ;  still  however  I  was  not  absolutely 
certain,  as  her  conduct  has  been  so  prudent  ah1  along. 
At  last  she  comes  to  town ;  and  who  comes  too  but 
my  old  rival,  the  Nabob  ?  I  got  acquainted  with  Mr. 
Fullarton,  and  he  and  I  joked  a  good  deal  about  our 
heiress.  Last  night  he  proposed  that  he  and  I  should 
go  together  and  pay  her  a  visit  for  the  first  time  after 
her  return  from  the  country ;  accordingly  we  went,  and 
I  give  you  my  word,  Temple,  it  was  a  curious  scene. 
However  the  Princess  behaved  exceedingly  well,  though 
with  a  reserve  more  than  ordinary.  When  we  left  her 
we  both  exclaimed,  "  Upon  my  soul,  a  fine  woman  !"  I 
began  to  like  the  Nabob  much ;  so  I  said  to  him,  "  I  do 
believe,  Mr.  Fullarton,  you  and  I  are  in  the  same  situa- 
tion here ;  is  it  possible  to  be  upon  honour,  and  gene- 
rous, in  an  affair  of  this  kind?"  We  agreed  it  was. 
Each  then  declared  he  was  serious  in  his  love  for  Miss 
B. ;  each  protested  he  never  before  believed  the  other 
in  earnest.  We  agreed  to  deal  by  one  another  in  a 
fair  and  candid  manner.  I  carried  him  to  sup  at  a 
lady's,  a  cousin  of  mine,  where  we  stayed  till  half  an 
hour  past  eleven ;  we  then  went  to  a  tavern,  and  the 
good  old  claret  was  set  before  us.  He  told  me  that  he 
had  been  most  assiduous  in  attending  Miss  Blair,  but 
she  never  gave  him  the  least  encouragement,  and  de- 
clared he  was  convinced  she  loved  me  as  much  as  a 
woman  could  love  a  man.  With  equal  honesty  I  told 
all  that  had  passed  between  her  and  me,  and  your  ob- 


THE    PRINCESS    AND    HER   LOVERS.  141 

servation  on  the  wary  mother.  "  What!"  said  he,  "  did 
Temple  say  so  ?  If  he  had  lived  twenty  years  in  the 
country  with  them,  he  could  not  have  said  a  better 
thing."  I  then  told  him  Dempster's  humorous  say- 
ing, that  all  Miss  B.'s  connections  were  in  an  absolute 
confederacy  to  lay  hold  of  every  man  who  has  a  thou- 
sand a  year,  and  how  I  called  their  system  a  salmon- 
fislting.  "You  have  hit  it,"  said  he ;  "  we're  all  kept  in 
play ;  but  I  am  positive  you  are  the  fish,  and  Sir  Alex- 
ander is  only  a  mock  salmon,  to  force  you  to  jump 
more  expeditiously  at  the  bait."  We  sat  till  two  this 
morning ;  we  gave  our  words,  as  men  of  honour,  that 
we  would  be  honest  to  each  other,  so  that  neither 
should  suffer  needlessly;  and,  to  satisfy  ourselves  of 
our  real  situation,  we  gave  our  words  that  we  should 
both  ask  her  this  morning,  and  I  should  go  first.  Could 
there  be  anything  better  than  this  ?  The  Nabob 
talked  to  me  with  the  warmth  of  the  Indies,  and 
professed  the  greatest  pleasure  on  being  acquainted 
with  me. 

Well,  Temple,  I  went  this  morning,  and  she  made 
tea  to  me  alone.  I  then  asked  her  seriously,  if  she 
was  to  be  married  to  Sir  Alexander.  She  said  it  was 
odd  to  believe  everything  people  said,  and  why  did  I 
put  such  question  ?  etc.  I  said  that  she  knew  very 
well  that  I  was  much  in  love  with  her,  and  that  if  I 
had  any  chance  I  would  take  a  good  deal  of  trouble 
to  make  myself  agreeable  to  her.  She  said  I  need  not 
take  the  trouble,  and  I  must  not  be  angry,  for  she 
thought  it  best  to  tell  me  honestly.  "  What,  then," 


142 


LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 


said  I,  "have  I  no  chance?"  "No,"  said  she.  I 
asked  her  to  say  so  upon  her  word  and  honour.  She 
fairly  repeated  the  words.  So  I  think,  Temple,  I  had 
enough. 

She  would  not  tell  me  whether  she  was  engaged  to 
the  knight:  she  said  she  would  not  satisfy  an  idle 
curiosity ;  but  I  own  I  had  no  doubt  of  it.  What 
amazed  me  was,  that  she  and  I  were  as  easy  and  as 
good  friends  as  ever.  I  told  her,  I  have  great  animal 
spirits,  and  bear  it  wonderfully  well.  But  this  is  really 
hard :  I  am  thrown  upon  the  wide  world  again ;  I 
don't  know  what  will  become  of  me. 

Before  dinner  the  Nabob  and  I  met,  and  he  told 
me  that  he  went,  and  in  the  most  serious  and  sub- 
missive manner  begged  to  know  if  she  was  engaged. 
She  would  give  him  no  satisfaction,  and  treated  him 
with  a  degree  of  coldness  that  overpowered  him  quite, 
poor  man ! 

Such  is  the  history  of  the  lovers  of  this  cruel  Prin- 
cess, who  certainly  is  a  lucky  woman  to  have  had  a 
sovereign  sway  over  so  many  admirers.  I  have  en- 
deavoured to  make  merry  on  my  misfortune. 

A  Crambo  Song  on  losing  my  Mistress. 

"  Although  I  be  an  honest  laird, 

In  person  rather  strong  and  brawny, 
For  me  the  heiress  never  cared, 

For  she  would  have  the  knight,  Sir  Sawney. 

"  And  when,  with  ardent  vows,  I  swore 

Loud  as  Sir  Jonathan  Trelawny, 
The  heiress  showed  me  to  the  door, 

And  said,  she  'd  have  the  knight,  Sir  Sawney. 


CRUELTY    OF    THE    PRINCESS.  143 

"  She  told  me,  with  a  scornful  look, 

I  was  as  ugly  as  a  tawny ;  » 

For  she  a  better  fish  could  hook, 

The  rich  and  gallant  knight,  Sir  Sawney," 

N.B.  I  can  find  no  more  rhymes  to  Sawney. 

Now  that  all  is  over,  I  see  many  faults  in  her  which 
I  did  not  see  before.  Do  you  not  think  she  has  not 
feeling  enough,  nor  that  ingenuous  spirit  which  your 
friend  requires  ?  The  Nabob  and  many  other  people 
are  still  of  opinion  that  she  has  not  made  sure  of  Sir 
Sawney,  and  that  all  this  may  be  finesse ;  but  I  can- 
not suspect  so  young  a  creature  of  so  much  artifice ; 
and  whatever  may  be  in  it,  I  am  honourably  off,  and 
you  may  wonder  at  it,  but  I  assure  you  I  am  very  easy 
and  cheerful.  I  am  however  resolved  to  look  out  for 
a  good  wife,  either  here  or  in  England.  I  intend  to 
be  in  London  in  March :  my  address  will  be  at  Mr. 
Dilly's,  bookseller ;  but  I  expect  to  hear  from  you  be- 
fore I  set  out,  which  will  not  be  till  the  14th  of  March. 
I  rejoice  to  hear  that  Mrs.  Temple  is  in  a  good  way ; 
my  best  wishes  ever  attend  you  and  her. 

I  am, 
Your  most  affectionate  friend, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 

Fed.  \\th. — I  have  allowed  my  letter  to  lie  by  till 
this  day.  The  heiress  is  a  good  Scots  lass,  but  I 
must  have  an  Englishwoman.  My  mind  is  now  twice 
as  enlarged  as  it  has  been  for  some  months.  You 
cannot  say  how  fine  a  woman  I  may  marry ;  perhaps 


144  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

a  Howard,  or  some  other  of  the  noblest  in  the  king- 
dom.   * 


The  "Scots  lass"  being  dethroned,  the  "charming 

Dutchwoman"  of  Utrecht  is  set  up  in  her  stead. 

t 

36.]  London,  24>th  March,  1768. 

My  dear  Temple, 

I  received,  on  yesterday,  your  letter,  wanting  £15, 
and  this  morning  I  got  the  enclosed  bank-bill.  I 
heartily  sympathize  with  the  troubles  into  which  the 
imprudence  of  one  relation  and  the  bad  conduct  of 
another,  joined  to  your  own  generosity,  have  brought 
you ;  but  you  know,  my  valuable  friend,  we  are  not 
here  as  in  a  state  of  felicity. 

I  received  your  former  letter  before  I  left  Scotland, 
and  was  quite  happy  to  find  you  were  in  such  a  way 
of  thinking  with  regard  to  Miss  B.  I  am  indeed  glad 
that  I  am  rid  of  her.  She  has  now  shown,  what  I 
always  suspected,  that  she  had  no  other  view  but  just 
convenience  and  interest.  Do  you  know,  my  charming 
Dutchwoman  and  I  have  renewed  our  correspondence  ? 
and  upon  my  soul,  Temple,  I  must  have  her.  She  is 
so  sensible,  so  accomplished,  and  knows  me  so  well 
and  likes  me  so  much,  that  I  do  not  see  how  I  can  be  un- 
happy with  her.  Sir  John  Pringle  is  now  for  it ;  and 
this  night  I  write  to  my  father,  begging  his  permis- 
sion to  go  over  to  Utrecht  just  now.  She  very  pro- 
perly writes,  we  should  meet  without  any  engagement, 
and  if  we  like  an  union  for  life,  good  and  well ;  if  not, 


SUCCESS    OF   THE    HISTORY    OF    CORSICA.         145 

we  are  still  to  be  friends.  What  think  you  of  this, 
Temple? 

My  book  has  amazing  celebrity :  Lord  Lyttelton, 
Mr.  Walpole,  Mrs.  Macaulay,  Mr.  Garrick,  have  all 
written  me  noble  letters  about  it.  There  are  two 
Dutch  translations  going  forward,  and  Zelide  trans- 
lates it  into  French.  Pray  tell  me  how  I  can  send  you 
a  copy  of  the  second  edition,  which  is  already  printed. 

I  am  in  a  great  hurry.  Address  at  "  Mr.  Russell's, 
Upholsterer's,  Half-Moon  Street,  Piccadilly."  I  am 
happy  Wyvill  and  you  are  again  friends.  I  go  to 
Oxford,  to  venerate  the  shades  of  science,  with  the 
illustrious  Samuel  Johnson. 

• 

Most  affectionately  yours, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


"  The  charming  Dutchwoman"  yields  now  in  favour 
of  a  healthy,  young,  and  amiable  Miss  Dick,  but  only 
for  about  ten  days. 

37.]  London,  I6tk  April,  1768. 

My  dearest  Friend, 

I  find  the  fair  and  lively  Zelide  has  no  chance  for 
the  vote  of  the  Rector  of  Manihead.  My  father  is  quite 
against  the  scheme,  so  you  need  not  be  afraid.  Indeed 
I  should  not  engage  in  matrimonial  concerns  without 
your  approbation ;  however,  I  cannot  help  thinking 
both  my  father  and  my  friend  too  severe.  Zelide  may 
have  had  faults,  but  is  she  always  to  have  them  ?  may 


146 


Kr  fcr  the  better, as  it  has 
??    But  TOawffltdl  me  tint  I  am  not  so 
gKatir  akcred,  as  I  hare  stil  • 

To  CKMHCBS  to  yoB  at  OBOE,  XcnpgpT  1  have,  HBO 
fast  canDBg  to  town,  becB  as  wild  as  ever.* 

~     '-    -   -  -   -    -  •    f<  -  -  §  ,„—      !-_•«•   * _  ,  Jt     ,,.,M    1 1    __ 

A  •anc  seen  \jaxson,  nut  BBIC  not  ici  naa  an 
k^  wink  tern.    WrdO  »  m  tomn 
tftiffaHKNML     wir  hare  TO*  not 
letter?    I  BHH!  m  yov  doing  it 

|«NiiBf  book  more  tbm  a  week  ago,  to  the 
lam  at  Exeter:  I  hope  JOB  hare  leeched  it. 
;?     Hare  yon  ponftiffdtjr  no  bed  in 
forme?    Bout  may  I  not  come  and  at 
n^fcit  wiiATC«,if  Mr*.  Terople  wfflaBoirilr     I 
to  come  to  London,  but  I  widi  to  see 
table  with  jour  wife.   My  dear  friend, 


wnteto 


do  part  jean  letmn  to  my  mind !     Foigire  my 
;  lore  me;  contrjre  how  we  shaft1  meet,  and 
Ever  mont  suiccielj  yours, 

JAMES  BOSWKLL. 


PJS- — I  knew  yon  are  determined  to  hare  me  mar- 
ried. What  would  yon  think  of  the  fine,  healthy, 
young,  amiable  MM*  Dock,  with  whom  you  dined  so 
agreeably?  Would  not  the  worthy  Knight  call  out  a 
fawny?  She  wants  onfy  a  good  fortune. 


it  ie 


to  «ffer  fcoe;  %  dhow  tibt  OK  jmdoMt  wd  «tf- 
jr,  co  MM  a*  Iris  book  was  <Mt,  woe 


7ii::  -  1-17 

„';-      I'" 


My  dear  Temple, 
Your  men!  lecture  cane  to  me  jerfeuiay  in  very 
good  time,  while  I  lay  sqgermg  aevcfdyfar  immmfcy. 
If  there  is  an y  firmest  at  afl  m  me,  be  amed  fiat  I 
shall  never  again  behave  in  a  manner  so  mtmutiky  the 
fnegn  nf  Paoh.  M.V  warm  nmvDDBSfEion  liHFfciHr  forward 
with  great  complacency  on  the  sobriety,  the  hrjfchM 
ness,  and  the  worth  of  my  ftrtone  fife- 
But  I  have  not  jet  given  up  with  Zefide.  Just  after 
I  wrote  you  last,  I  received  a  letter  from  her,  rafl  of 
good  sense  and  of  tenderness.  "  My  dear  friend,"  she 
says,  "it  is  prejudice  that  has  kept  JOB.  so  mnch  at  a 
distance  from  me ;  if  we  meet,  I  am  sore  that  preju- 
dice wffl  be  removed."  The  letter  kin  Eighth;  Ihav* 
sent  it  to  my  father,  and  have  «i«m»*ilj  begged  his 
permission  to  go  and  see  her.  I  piumnc,  upon  ho- 
nour, not  to  engage  myse£  but  only  to  bring  a  fiuth- 
fal  report,  and  let  him  decide.  Be  patient,  Temple ; 
read  the  enclosed  letters,  and  ictnmthesa  to  SK.  Both 
my  father  and  you  know  Zefide  only  front  me ;  may  I 


r*r 

of  my  mind,  while  I  was  at  Utrecht  ?     How  do  we 

know  but  she  is  an  inestimable  prixe?  Surely  it  is 
worth  while  to  go  to  Holland  to  see  a  fair  eonehnkm, 
one  way  or  other,  of  what  has  hovered  in  my  mmd  for 
years.  I  have  written  to  her,  and  told  her  afl  my  per- 
plexity ;  I  have  put  in  the  plainest  fight  what  craaAWt 
I  absolutely  require  of  her,  and  what  my  father  wffl 
require.  I  have  bid  her  be  my  wife  at 

- 


148  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

comfort  me  with  a  letter,  in  which  she  shall  show  at 
once  her  wisdom,  her  spirit,  and  her  regard  for  me. 
You  shall  see  it.  I  tell  you,  man,  she  knows  me  and 
values  me  as  you  do.  After  reading  the  enclosed  let- 
ters I  am  sure  you  will  be  better  disposed  towards 
my  charming  Zelide.  I  am  very  ill ;  my  surgeon,  Mr. 
Forbes,  of  the  Horse-Guards,  says,  my  distemper  is  one 
of  the  worst  he  has  ever  seen.  I  wish  I  may  be  able 
to  go  to  Holland  at  all.  Old  General  Oglethorpe,  who 
has  come  to  see  me,  and  is  with  me  often,  just  on  ac- 
count of  my  book,  bids  me  not  marry  till  I  have  first 
put  the  Corsicans  in  a  proper  situation.  You  may 
make  a  fortune  in  the  doing  of  it,  said  he ;  or,  if  you 
do  not,  you  will  have  acquired  such  a  character  as  will 
entitle  you  to  any  fortune. 

You  cannot  imagine  how  happy  I  am  at  your  ap- 
probation of  my  book.  Look  back,  my  dearest  friend, 
at  the  days  when  we  walked  together  on  Arthur's  Seat. 
Ah !  do  you  rank  your  Boswell  with  Molesworth  and 
Stanyan  ?  You  must  think  awhile,  to  enjoy  the  idea  ! 

It  is  uncertain  when  I  shall  get  to  you,  but  I  long 
for  it.  In  the  meantime  pray  refresh  me  with  letters. 
My  best  wishes  to  Mrs.  Temple. 

Ever  yours, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


In  one  of  Boswell's  earlier  letters,  he  declared  that 
he  would  fight  against  the  demon  of  niggardliness. 
In  the  following  epistle  he  declares  that  he  "  is  really 


BECOMING   THE    GREAT    MAN.  149 

the  great  man  now,"  and  forthwith  shows  how  he  has 
arrived  at  this  elevation,  which  seems  to  have  been  by 
means  of  his  admirable  dinners,  good  claret,  setting 
up  a  chariot,  and  generally  by  enjoying  the  fruits  of 
his  labour,  and  "  appearing  like  the  friend  of  Paoli." 
The  detail  in  the  '  Life  of  Johnson'  is  rather  scanty 
about  this  period ;  dissipation,  the  History  of  Corsica, 
wife-hunting,  a  little  gambling,  and  some  practice  in 
the  law  at  Edinburgh,  interfered  perhaps  at  this  time 
with  his  pursuit  of  Dr.  Johnson. 


39.]  London,  \  Uh  May,  1768. 

My  dear  Temple, 

When  one  is  confined,  as  I  am,  he  has  a  great  avi- 
dity for  the  letters  of  a  friend,  so  that  I  was  uneasy  at 
not  hearing  again  from  you  so  soon  as  I  expected;  but 
I  received  a  kind  letter  yesterday,  which  set  me  to 
rights.  I  lost  no  time  in  executing  your  commissions. 
Poor  Thomas  was  ill,  and  I  was  obliged  to  leave  him 
in  Scotland ;  but  I  sent  Anthony,  my  present  servant, 
last  night,  both  to  Mrs.  Alders  and  to  Mr.  Dilly's. 
The  books  are  to  be  shipped  as  soon  as  possible.  So 
you  are  pleased  with  the  writings  of  Zelide !  Ah,  my 
friend !  had  you  but  seen  the  tender  and  affectionate 
letter  which  she  wrote  to  me,  and  which  I  transmitted 
to  my  father !  And  can  you  still  oppose  my  union 
with  her  ?  Yes,  you  can  ;  and,  my  dearest  friend,  you 
are  much  in  the  right.  I  told  you  what  sort  of  letter 
I  last  wrote  to  her  :  it  was  candid,  fair,  and  con- 


150  ^LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

scientious.  I  told  her  of  many  difficulties :  I  told  her 
my  fears  from  her  levity  and  infidel  notions,  at  the 
same  time  admiring  her,  and  hoping  she  was  altered 
for  the  better.  How  did  she  answer?  Read  her 
letter.  Could  any  actress  at  any  of  the  theatres  attack 
me  with  a  keener — what  is  the  word  ?  not  fury,  some- 
thing softer.  The  lightning  that  flashes  with  so  much 
brilliance  may  scorch,  and  does  not  her  esprit  do  so  ? 
Is  she  not  a  termagant,  or  at  least  will  she  not  be  one 
by  the  time  she  is  forty  ?  and  she  is  near  thirty  now. 
Indeed,  Temple,  thou  reasonest  well.  You  may  believe 
I  was  perfectly  brought  over  to  your  opinion  by  this 
acid  epistle.  I  was  then  afraid  that  my  father,  out 
of  his  great  indulgence,  might  have  consented  to  my 
going  to  Utrecht ;  but  I  send  you  his  answer,  which 
is  admirable,  if  you  make  allowance  for  his  imagina- 
tion that  I  am  not  dutiful  to  him.  I  have  written  to 
him : — "  I  will  take  the  ghost's  word  for  a  thousand 
pounds.  How  happy  am  I  at  having  a  friend  at  home 
of  such  wisdom  and  firmness.  I  was  eager  for  the 
Guards,  I  was  eager  for  Mademoiselle ;  but  you  have 
happily  restrained  me  from  both.  Since  then,  I  have 
experienced  your  superior  judgment  in  the  two  impor- 
tant articles  of  a  profession  and  the  choice  of  a  wife. 
I  shall  henceforth  do  nothing  without  your  advice." 
Worthy  man !  this  will  be  a  solace  to  him  upon  his 
Circuit.  As  for  Zelide,  I  have  written  to  her  that 
we  are  agreed.  My  pride  (say  I)  and  your  vanity 
would  never  agree :  it  would  be  like  the  scene  in  our 
burlesque  comedy,  '  The  Rehearsal :' — "  I  am  the  bold 


THE    FRIEND    OF    PAOLI.  151 

thunder,"  cries  one;  "The  quick  lightning  I,"  cries 
another,  "  et  voila  notre  menage."  But  she  and  I  will 
always  be  good  correspondents. 

I  forget  what  I  wrote  you  about  somebody  having 
talked  of  my  "  placing  "  the  Corsicans,  etc.  Who  was 
it  ?  and  how  is  he  wrong  ?  This  is  to  try  if  I  can  ba- 
lance your  "  humbler." 

I  am  really  the  great  man  now.  I  have  had  David 
Hume,  in  the  forenoon,  and  Mr.  Johnson,  in  the  after- 
noon, of  the  same  day,  visiting  me.  Sir  John  Pringle, 
Dr.  Franklin,  and  some  more  company,  dined  with  me 
today ;  and  Mr.  Johnson  and  General  Oglethorpe  one 
day,  Mr.  Garrick  alone  another,  and  David  Hume  and 
some  more  literati  another,  dine  with  me  next  week. 
I  give  admirable  dinners  and  good  claret;  and  the 
moment  I  go  abroad  again,  which  will  be  in  a  day  or 
two,  I  set  up  my  chariot.  This  is  enjoying  the  fruit 
of  my  labours,  and  appearing  like  the  friend  of  Paoli. 
By  the  bye,  the  Earl  of  Pembroke  and  Captain  Mea- 
dows are  just  setting  out  for  Corsica,  and  I  have  the 
honour  of  introducing  them  by  a  letter  to  the  General. 
David  Hume  came  on  purpose,  the  other  day,  to  tell 
me  that  the  Duke  of  Bedford  was  very  fond  of  my 
book,  and  had  recommended  it  to  the  Duchess.  David 
is  really  amiable  :  I  always  regret  to  him  his  unlucky 
principles,  and  he  smiles  at  my  faith ;  but  I  have  a 
hope  which  he  has  not,  or  pretends  not  to  have.  So 
who  has  the  best  of  it,  rny  reverend  friend  ?  David 
is  going  to  give  us  two  more  volumes  of  History,  down 
to  George  II.  I  wish  he  may  not  mire  himself  in  the 


152  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

Brunswick  sands.  Pactolus  is  there.  Dr.  Robertson 
is  come  up  laden  with  his  '  Charles  V.,' — three  large 
quartos :  he  has  been  offered  three  thousand  guineas 
for  it.  To  what  a  price  has  literature  arisen  !  I  am 
now  almost  well;  and,  upon  my  honour,  I  shall  be 
moral  for  the  future.  When  I  hear  from  you  again,  I 
will  fix  when  I  am  to  be  with  you,  and  happy  shall  I 
be,  I  do  assure  you,  though  I  cannot  stay  above  a  night 
or  two.  Wyvill  is  gone  home.  Claxton  asked  me  to 
dine  with  him  lately,  but  I  could  not  go.  Pray  send 
me  a  short  introduction  to  Mr.  Gray.*  You  are 
wrong  in  being  positive  against  Miss  Dick,  but  of 
this  when  we  meet.  Return  me  the  enclosed  letters. 
Present  my  best  compliments  to  Mrs.  Temple. 
Ever  yours,  my  dearest  friend, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


The  letter  of  the  24th  August  now  introduces  to  Mr, 
Temple  another  lady,  as  supreme  over  all  the  rest  as 
it  is  possible  for  a  Boswell's  imagination  to  conceive ; 
besides  which,  she  was  possessed  of  this  world's  goods. 
In  fact,  "  every  flower  is  united,  and  not  a  thorn  to  be 
found." 

.  *  Probably  the  desire  for  an  introduction  in  this  case  was  not 
mutual.  It  has  been  already  seen  what  Gray  and  Walpole  said  to 
each  other  in  respect  of  the  '  Account  of  Corsica ;'  and  one  of  the  re- 
miniscences of  Gray,  by  the  Rev.  N.  Nicholls,  is  as  follows  :  "  When 
Boswell  published  his  '  Account  of  Corsica/  I  found  Mr.  Gray  reading 
it.  '  With  this,'  he  said,  '  I  am  much  pleased,  because  I  see  the 
author  is  too  foolish  to  have  invented  it.'  "  (Edition  by  Mitford. 
Pickering.  1843.) 


GAMBLING.  153 

40.]  Auchinleck,  24<t7i  August,  1768. 

My  dear  Temple, 

You  have  good  reason  to  accuse  me  of  neglect  in 
being  silent  so  long.  My  apology,  I  fear,  is  not  suffi- 
cient ;  for  although  I  was  a  good  deal  taken  up  with 
the  business  of  the  Summer  Session,  had  I  not  allowed 
myself  to  employ  a  great  deal  of  time  in  gaming, 
I  need  not  have  put  off  from  day  to  day  writing  to 
my  best  friend.  Some  years  ago  I  had  the  rage  of 
gaming,  and  I  lost  more  money  than  I  was  able  to 
pay.  Mr.  Sheridan  advanced  me  as  much  as  cleared 
me,  but  took  a  promise  from  me  that  I  should  not 
play  at  all  for  three  years.  When  I  was  abroad  he 
freed  me  from  my  promise,  but  restricted  me  not  to 
lose  above  three  guineas  at  a  sitting.  I  thought  my 
passion  for  gaming  had  been  quite  gone ;  but  since  I 
came  last  to  Scotland  I  began  again  to  try  a  game  of 
chance,  and  I  found  the  fever  still  lurking  in  my  veins, 
and  it  seized  me  for  awhile,  and  I  know  not  how  much 
harm  it  might  have  done  me  had  it  continued;  but 
after  having  recovered  myself  so  as  to  have  lost  about 
fourteen  guineas,  I  have  made  a  resolution  never  to 
play  at  a  game  of  chance,  and  never  at  Whist  but  for 
a  trifle,  to  make  up  a  party. 

My  dear  Temple,  will  you  be  so  good  as  to  pardon 
this  last  neglect,  from  which  I  am  sure  I  suffer  more 
than  you  do ;  and  let  us  henceforth  keep  up  a  close 
correspondence,  and  so  live  together  as  much  as  pos- 
sible at  a  distance.  Your  misfortune  by  the  bank- 
ruptcy of  Mr.  Fenwick  Stow  really  afflicted  me ;  you 


154  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

have  a  noble  spirit,  not  to  be  cast  down  by  so  many 
misfortunes.  Are  you  in  any  immediate  want  of 
money?  If  you  are,  I  will  send  you  all  that  I  can 
command.  Do  you  remember  how  generous  you  was 
to  me  when  I  wanted  to  purchase  a  commission  in 
the  Guards  ?  I  hope  Mrs.  Temple  is  in  a  good  way ; 
let  me  know  particularly  about  her.  I  am  exceed- 
ingly lucky  in  having  escaped  the  insensible  Miss  B. 
and  the  furious  Zelide,  for  I  have  now  seen  the  finest 
creature  that  ever  was  formed,  la  belle  Irlandaise* 
Figure  to  yourself,  Temple,  a  young  lady  just  sixteen, 
formed  like  a  Grecian  nymph,  with  the  sweetest  coun- 
tenance, full  of  sensibility,  accomplished,  with  a  Dub- 
lin education,  always  half  the  year  in  the  north  of 
Ireland,  her  father  a  counsellor-at-law,  with  an  estate 
of  £1000  a  year,  and  above  £10,000  in  ready  money ; 
her  mother  a  sensible,  well-bred  woman ;  she  the  dar- 
ling of  her  parents,  and  no  other  child  but  her  sister. 
She  is  cousin  to  some  cousins  of  mine  in  this  county. 
I  was  at  their  house  while  she  and  her  father  and 
mother  and  aunt  were  over  upon  a  visit  just  last 
week.  The  counsellor  is  as  worthy  a  gentleman  as 
ever  I  saw.  Your  friend  was  a  favourite  with  all  of 
them.  From  morning  to  night  I  admired  the  charm- 
ing Mary  Anne.  Upon  my  honour,  I  never  was  so 

*  "  La  belle  Irlandaise"  is  here  called  Mary  Anne.  The  name  of 
the  lady  who  ultimately  became  Mrs.  Boswell  was  Margaret.  She 
belonged  to  the  family  of  the  Montgomeries  of  Lainshawe.  Mrs. 
Boswell  certainly  had  Irish  connections ;  but,  although  she  an- 
swers in  some  respects  to  the  description  here  given  of  la  belle 
Irlandaise,  the  two  cannot  safely  be  identified. 


LA    BELLE    1RLANDAISE.  155 

much  in  love;  I  never  was  before  in  a  situation  to 
which  there  was  not  some  objection,  but  here  every 
Jiower  is  united,  and  not  a  thorn  to  be  found.  But 
how  shall  I  manage  it?  they  were  in  a  hurry,  and 
are  gone  home  to  Ireland.  They  were  sorry  they 
could  not  come  to  see  Auchinleck,  of  which  they  had 
heard  a  great  deal.  Mary  Anne  wished  much  to  be 
in  the  grotto.  It  is  a  pity  they  did  not  come ;  this 
princely  seat  would  have  had  some  effect.  I  received 
the  kindest  invitation  to  come  and  see  them  in  Ire- 
land, and  I  promised  to  be  there  in  March.  In  the 
meantime  both  the  father  and  the  aunt  write  to  me. 
What  a  fortunate  fellow  am  I !  what  a  variety  of  ad- 
ventures in  all  countries !  I  was  allowed  to  walk  a 
great  deal  with  Miss ;  I  repeated  my  fervent  pas- 
sion to  her  again  and  again ;  she  was  pleased,  and  I 
could  swear  that  her  little  heart  beat.  I  carved  the 
first  letter  of  her  name  on  a  tree ;  I  cut  off  a  lock  of 
her  hair,  male  pertinax.  She  promised  not  to  forget 
me,  nor  to  marry  a  lord  before  March.  Her  aunt  said 
to  me,  "  Mr.  Bos  well,  I  tell  you  seriously  there  will 
be  no  fear  of  this  succeeding  but  from  your  own  in- 
constancy ;  stay  till  March."  All  the  Scotch  cousins 
too  think  I  may  be  the  happy  man.  Ah,  my  friend, 
I  am  now  as  I  ought  to  be ;  no  reserved,  prudent 
conduct,  as  with  Miss  B.  No !  all  youthful,  warm, 
natural ;  in  short,  all  genuine  love.  Pray  tell  me  what 
you  think.  I  have  great  confidence  in  your  judgment. 
I  mean  not  to  ask  what  you  think  of  my  angelic  girl ; 
I  am  fixed  beyond  a  possibility  of  doubt  as  to  her. 


156  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

Believe  me,  she  is  like  a  very  part  of  my  soul.  But 
will  not  the  fond  parents  insist  on  having  quality  for 
their  daughter,  who  is  to  have  so  large  a  fortune  ?  or 
do  you  think  that  the  Baron  of  Auchinleck  is  great 
enough  ?  Both  father,  mother,  and  aunt  assured  me  of 
my  high  character  in  Ireland,  where  my  book  is  printed 
the  third  edition :  that  is  no  bad  circumstance.  I  shall 
see  in  what  style  the  counsellor  writes,  and  shall  send 
some  elegant  presents  to  my  lovely  mistress. 

This  is  the  most  agreeable  passion  I  ever  felt ;  six- 
teen, innocence,  and  gaiety,  make  me  quite  a  Sicilian 
swain.  Before  I  left  London  I  made  a  vow  in  St. 
Paul's  Church,  that  I  would  not  allow  myself  in  licen- 
tious connections  of  any  kind  for  six  months.  I  am 
hitherto  firm  to  my  vow,  and  already  feel  myself  a 
superior  being.  I  have  given  up  my  criminal  inter- 
course with  Mrs. ;  in  short,  Maria  has  me  with- 
out any  rival.  I  do  hope  the  period  of  my  perfect 
felicity,  as  far  as  this  state  can  afford,  is  now  in  view. 

The  affairs  of  the  brave  Corsicans  interest  me  ex- 
ceedingly. Is  it  not  shocking  in  France  to  send  a 
great  armament  against  such  a  noble  little  people? 
I  have  had  four  letters  from  the  General  this  summer; 
he  and  his  countrymen  are  resolved  to  stand  to  the 
last.  I  have  hopes  that  our  Government  will  inter- 
fere. In  the  meantime,  by  a  private  subscription  in 
Scotland,  I  am  sending  this  week  £700  worth  of  ord- 
nance. The  Carron  Company  has  furnished  me  them 
very  cheap;  there  are  two  32-pounders,  four  24's,  four 
18's,  and  twenty  l)-pounders,  with  one  hundred  and 


CONFLICT    OF    AFFECTIONS.  157 

fifty  ball  to  each.    It  is  really  a  tolerable  train  of  artil- 
lery. 

My  brother  David  was  so  lucky  as,  just  at  the  con- 
clusion of  his  apprenticeship,  to  be  assumed  partner 
in  a  house  at  Valencia,  in  Spain.  Honorius  Dalliol,  a 
Frenchman,  Mr.  Charles  Herries,  a  Scotchman,  and 
David,  are  the  partners.  He  has  been  there  some 
months ;  he  is  delighted  with  the  country,  and  writes 
me  admirable  letters  •  he  is  still  agitated  with  gene- 
rous ideas  of  perfection,  as  you  and  I  used  to  be.  He 
is  miserable  if  he  does  not  make  that  figure  in  com- 
pany which  he  wishes  to  do ;  and  he  begs  that  I 
would  inform  him,  from  you,  how  it  is  that  you  can 
sit  quite  serene,  placid,  and  happy,  in  a  company 
where  perhaps  you  have  hardly  opened  your  mouth. 
Pray  humour  him  thus  far. 

And  now,  my  dear  friend,  I  trust  that  you  wih1  for- 
give my  long  silence,  and  will  be  assured  that  I  ever 
am,  with  the  warmest  regard, 

Your  affectionate  and  faithful 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


The  conflict  in  Boswell's  mind  between  his  various 
loves  is  here  very  amusingly  told.  The  flame  for 
Miss  Blair  and  his  passion  for  "  sweet  Mary  Anne  " 
are  in  ridiculous  contrast,  but  the  latter  seems  to  have 
the  advantage  ;  at  least  he  says  eventually  that  he  re- 
mains quite  constant  to  her.  Still  he  does  not  quite 


158  LETTERS    OF    BOS  WELL. 

know  what  to  do,  though  sure  that  he  is  himself  the 
"  candid,  generous  Boswell." 

As  might  be  expected,  Boswell's  attempts  to  live 
like  the  friend  of  Paoli,  setting  up  chariots,  etc.,  ends 
by  his  being  "  a  good  deal  in  debt."  He  also  falls  into 
dissipation  again,  and  has  various  other  difficulties  to 
encounter,  the  result  of  his  us"&l  want  of  self-control. 

41.]  Edinburgh,  Sth  December,  1768. 

My  dear  Temple, 

I  delay  not  a  post  to  tell  you  that  I  have  received 
your  letter  of  the  27th  November,  and  that  I  sincerely 
sympathize  with  the  gloomy  feelings  which  at  present 
seem  to  distress  you.  Your  long  silence  reaMy  made 
me  uneasy.  I  did  not  know  what  to  think,  and  I  was 
just  going  to  have  written  to  Mrs.  Temple,  or  to  Lord 
Lisburne,  to  inquire  if  my  best  friend  was  alive.  I 
thank  God  I  have  you  still ;  for  indeed,  my  dear  Tem- 
ple, I  cannot  be  without  you. 

I  trust  that  before  this  reaches  you  the  clouds  will 
be  dispelled.  Believe  me,  your  imagination  has  sug- 
gested false  terrors.  Read  Epictetus ;  read  Johnson. 
Let  a  manly  and  firm  philosophy  brace  your  mind, 
and  you  will  be  convinced  that,  although  you  deserve 
a  better  situation,  you  have  no  reason  to  be  dejected. 
After  all  your  misfortunes,  I  believe  you  have  £200  of 
your  own,  which,  with  Mrs.  Temple's  £1300,  is  no 
inconsiderable  fund.  Your  living  is,  I  believe,  £80  a 
year,  which,  with  what  you  have  clear  after  paying 
your  father's  annuity,  may  enable  you  to  live  very  com- 


.    EVILS    OF    AMBITION.  159 

fortably.  Be  not  too  anxious  on  account  of  your  chil- 
dren ;  educate  them  with  good  principles  and  active 
habits,  and  they  will  make  their  way  through  life.  I 
wish  you  joy  of  your  son,  and  I  most  heartily  accept 
the  office  of  being  its  godfather.  I  give  you  my  so- 
lemn promise  that  I  shall  be  in  earnest  to  do  my  duty ; 
and,  if  my  best  friend  shall  leave  the  world  before  me, 
it  may  be  a  comfort  to  him  to  think  that  I  am  left 
some  time  longer  to  take  care  of  his  children.  If 
taking  a  journey  to  Devonshire  could  be  of  any  essen- 
tial service  to  you,  I  should  willingly  come;  but  in 
this  case  a  proxy  will  do. 

Mr.  Hume  is  not  to  go  to  Paris  :  he  is  busy  with 
the  continuation  of  his  History.  You  admire  our  Scot- 
tish authors  too  much;  but  you  know,  my  worthy 
friend,  we  differ  just  enough  to  enliven  us,  and  afford 
some  exercise  of  our  talents. 

I  cannot  approve  of  your  wishing  to  leave  your  fa- 
mily :  it  was  a  sudden  wish  while  your  mind  was  un- 
hinged. Do  not  allow  yourself  to  suppose  that  Lord 
L.  will  do  nothing  more  for  you :  he  is  your  relation ; 
keep  well  with  him,  and  things  may  come  about.  Let 
me  beseech  you,  Temple,  not  to  fix  your  desires  on 
external  greatness.  Recollect  how  you  and  I  flattered 
ourselves  that  we  were  to  be  the  greatest  men  of  our 

time. 

"  Eectius  vives,  Licini,  neque  altum 
Semper  urgeiido." 

Do  you  know  that  in  reality  your  uneasiness  is  owing 
to  your  allowing  yourself  to  think  too  much  of  those 


160  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

who  have  superior  degrees  of  the  favours  of  fortune. 
Pardon  me,  my  friend,  if  I  write  thus ;  I  am  sure  I 
mean  it  well.  I  should  like  much  to  have  you  settled 
in  the  English  chapel  here,  but  I  believe  the  income  is 
less  than  at  your  present  residence.  I  shall  however 
consider  of  it,  and  inquire  as  to  particulars,  and  when 
there  will  be  an  opening.  Keep  up  your  spirits,  and 
pray  let  me  know  exactly  the  state  of  your  affairs.  Be 
assured  that  my  friendship  for  you  is  unchangeable. 

And  now  as  to  myself.  What  think  you,  my  friend  ? 
Miss  Blair  is  Miss  Blair  still !  Her  marriage  with  the 
Knight  is  not  to  be.  I  understand  that  when  terms 
came  to  be  considered,  neither  answered  the  expecta- 
tions which  they  had  formed  of  each  other's  circum- 
stances, and  so  the  match  was  broken  off.  After  the 
departure  of  my  "  belle  Irlandaise,"  I  was  two  or  three 
times  at  Adamtown,  and,  upon  my  word,  the  old  flame 
was  kindled.  The  wary  mother,  as  you  called  her, 
told  me  that  it  was  my  own  fault  that  her  daughter 
was  not  long  ago  my  wife ;  but  that  after  the  young 
lady  had  shown  me  very  particular  marks  of  regard, 
corresponded  with  me,  etc.,  I  had  made  such  a  joke  of 
my  love  for  the  heiress  in  every  company,*  that  she 
was  piqued,  and  did  not  believe  that  I  had  any  serious 
intentions ;  that  in  the  meantime  the  Knight  offered, 
and  what  could  she  do  ?  Temple,  to  a  man  again  in 
love,  this  was  engaging.  I  walked  whole  hours  with 
the  Princess ;  I  kneeled  ;  I  became  truly  amorous,  but 

*  A  heavy  charge  against  Mr.  Boswell,  which  nevertheless,  as  has 
been  seen,  was  probably  too  true. 


DIFFICULTIES    IN    LOVE.  161 

she  told  me  that  "  really  she  had  a  very  great  regard 
for  me,  but  did  not  like  me  so  as  to  marry  me."  You 
never  saw  such  a  coldness ;  yet  the  Nabob  told  me, 
upon  his  honour  and  salvation,  that  he  had  it  from 
one  who  had  it  from  Miss  B.'s  own  mouth  last  year, 
that  she  was  truly  in  love  with  me,  and  reckoned  upon 
having  me  for  her  husband.  My  relapse  into  this 
fever  lasted  some  weeks.  I  wrote  to  her,  as  usual,  the 
most  passionate  letters.  I  said,  "  I  shall  not  again 
have  the  galling  reflection  that  my  misery  is  owing  to 
my  own  fault."  Only  think  of  this,  Temple !  She 
might  have  had  me,  but,  luckily  for  me,  she  still  af- 
fected the  same  coldness,  and  not  a  line  would  she 
write.  Then  came  a  kind  letter  from  my  amiable 
aunt  Boyd  in  Ireland,  and  all  the  charms  of  sweet 
Mary  Anne  revived.  Since  that  time  I  have  been 
quite  constant  to  her,  and  as  indifferent  towards  Kate 
as  if  I  never  had  thought  of  her.  She  is  still  in  the 
country.  Should  I  write  to  her,  and  tell  her  I  am 
cured,  as  she  wished  ?  or  is  there  more  dignity  in  just 
letting  the  affair  sleep  ?  After  her  behaviour,  do  I, 
the  candid,  generous  Boswell,  owe  her  anything  ?  Am 
I  anyhow  bound  by  passionate  exclamations  to  which 
she  did  not  even  answer?  Write  to  me,  my  dear 
friend.  She  will  be  here  soon  ;  I  am  quite  easy  with 
her.  What  should  I  do?  By  all  that's  enchanting, 
I  go  to  Ireland  in  March.  What  should  I  say  to 
Kate  ?  You  see  I  am  still  the  old  man  :  I  have  still 
need  of  your  advice :  write  me  without  delay.  I  shall 
soon  give  you  a  more  general  epistle. 

M 


162  LETTERS    OP    BOS  WELL. 

Adieu,  my  dearest  friend !     My  kind  compliments 

to  Mrs.  Temple. 

Ever  yours, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 

P.S. — I  am  just  now  a  good  deal  in  debt.  If  you 
want  any  credit  from  me,  let  me  know  some  weeks 
before.  Excuse  this.  Whatever  I  can  do,  you  may 
always  depend  on. 

Postscript. 
My  dear  Temple, 

You  are  by  this  time  well  acquainted  with  my  pre- 
sent situation ;  many  a  different  one  have  you  known 
me  in.  You  must  comfort  me,  for  by  the  time  I  can 
have  your  answer  my  spirits  will  be  very  low.  My 
present  misfortune  is  occasioned  by  drinking.  Since 
my  return  to  Scotland  I  have  fallen  a  great  deal  too 
much  into  that  habit,  which  still  prevails  in  Scotland. 
Perhaps  the  coldness  of  the  Scots  requires  it,  but  my 
fiery  blood  is  turned  to  madness  by  it.  This  will  be 
a  warning  to  me,  and  from  henceforth  I  shall  be  a 
perfect  man ;  at  least  I  hope  so.  Adieu,  my  friend  ! 
let  us  correspond  once  a  fortnight.  Write  me  fully. 
Tell  me  sincerely,  am  I  right  to  insist  that  my  dear 
little  woman  shall  stay  ?  She  was  married  very  young, 
but  she  has  three  children :  I  hate  to  think  of  it.  No 
matter;  she  is  like  a  girl  of  eighteen;  she  has  the 
finest  black  hair.  Is  it  not  right  I  should  have  a  fa- 
vourite to  keep  me  happy  ?  but  alas  !  I  love  her  so 
much  that  I  am  in  a  kind  of  fever.  Tftis  is  unworthy 


BOSWELL    MARRIES.  163 

of  Paolis  friend.  Lord  Eglinton  once  observed,  very 
justly,  that  "a  man  may  be  in  love  with  an  Italian 
woman  of  gallantry,  because,  by  the  custom  of  the 
country,  she  does  not  think  she  is  doing  wrong,  so 
may  be  called  virtuous ;"  but  I  cannot  apply  it  to  my 
angel.  Adieu  encore. 


The  following  letters  are  from  the  married  Boswell, 
the  question  of  selecting  a  wife  having  been  at  last 
solved,  as  has  been  mentioned  at  the  beginning  of  the 
Chapter,  in  favour  of  Miss  Montgomerie.  We  cannot 
help  recollecting  a  sage  reflection  offered,  in  the  c  Life 
of  Johnson/  by  Boswell  upon  this  subject :  "  In  a  man 
whom  religious  education  has  secured  from  licentious 
indulgence,  the  passion  of  love,  when  once  it  has  seized 
him,  is  exceedingly  strong,  being  unimpaired  by  dissi- 
pation, and  totally  concentrated  in  one  object." 

The  "man"  here  alluded  to  does  not  answer  the 
description  of  Boswell;  but  what  was  the  effect  of 
matrimony  upon  him  will  appear  in  the  subsequent 
pages. 


42.]  Edinburgh,  1th  May,  1770. 

My  dear  Friend, 

Your  letter,  dated  April  26th,  has  given  me  both 
pleasure  and  pain :  pleasure  to  hear  from  you ;  and 
pain  to  think,  or  at  least  doubt,  that  you  have  not 
received  a  long  letter,  which  I  wrote  to  you  the  3rd 

M  2 


164  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

of  April,  containing  a  full  account  of  Mr.  Hume's 
opinion  as  to  the  study  of  modern  history,  and  also, 
as  I  flattered  myself,  a  satisfactory  answer  to  your 
strange  scheme  of  changing  your  profession.  My 
letter  was  directed  to  Lord  Lisburne,  Mamhead,  near 
Chudleigh,  Devon.  I  would  fain  hope  that  my  letter 
has  before  now  come  to  your  hands ;  but  lest  it  should 
not,  I  now  sit  down  to  recollect,  as  well  as  I  can,  what 
Mr.  Hume  said  as  to  the  study  of  modern  history. 
He  seemed  to  be  of  opinion  that  no  fixed,  exact 
system  need  be  observed.  You  must,  he  said,  "  read 
the  best  modern  history.  I  would  begin  with  Eng- 
land, and  (here  he  smiled)  read  Mrs.  Macaulay.  (You 
may  guess  what  History  of  England  he  really  thinks 
the  best.)  You  may  then  read  the  history  of  France. 
I  am  told  the  new  history  by  Velly  and  Villaret  is 
the  best,  better  than  Pere  Dariee."  He  then  said  I 
might  read  the  histories  of  the  Low  Countries,  by 
Bentivoglio,  and  those  of  the  other  parts  of  Europe 
in  what  order  I  chose,  as  Machiavel,  Father  Paul,  Guic- 
ciardini,  etc.  I  would  fain  hope  my  letter  has  reached 
you;  if  it  has  not,  you  have  here  the  substance  of 
what  Mr.  Hume  said.  I  told  you  a  great  deal  more 
of  him,  which  I  shall  tell  you  on  being  assured  my 
letter  has  miscarried. 

I  will  not  now  repeat  what  I  said  against  your 
changing  your  profession ;  that  may  keep  cold.  I 
shall  do  it  also,  when  I  hear  that  my  letter  has  not 
arrived.  It  really  hurts  me  much,  my  worthy  friend, 
to  see  the  nemo  quam  sibi  sortem  seu  ratio  dederit,  sen 


DEFINITION    OF   HISTORY.  165 

sors  objecerit,  ilia  contentus  vivat,  so  strongly  exem- 
plified in  you.  Well  do  I  know  that  I  have  the  seeds 
of  the  same  discontent,  but  I  strive  to  bury  them ; 
do  you  the  same.  I  am  sure  I  am  right,  but  of 
this  more  hereafter.  I  rejoice  to  hear  that  your  bro- 
ther has  been  so  lucky.  I  shall  be  disappointed  if 
I  do  not  see  you  here  this  summer  or  autumn ;  but 
your  objections  till  July  is  over  are,  I  confess,  unan- 
swerable. I  believe  August  will  be  the  same  sort  of 
season  in  my  family.  My  best  compliments  to  Mrs. 
Temple,  and  kind  wishes  for  my  godson.  Pray  write 
as  soon  as  you  receive  this. 

I  am,  my  dear  Temple,  ever  yours, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


44.]  Edinburgh,  \%tfi  June,  1770. 

My  dear  Temple, 

A  long  letter  which  I  lately  wrote  to  you  has,  I 
hope,  come  safe  to  hand.  I  told  you  in  it  that  the 
Rev.  Mr.  Henry  was  soon  to  publish  the  preface  to 
his  History  as  a  prospectus  or  plan  of  the  work.  I 
got  it  yesterday,  and  now  send  it  you,  as  you  are  at 
present  so  much  in  the  historical  humour,  and  will 
relish  anything  of  that  kind  as  much  as  a  fine  lady 
a  new  fashion  in  dress.'  I  shall  be  glad  to  know  what 
you  think  of  Mr.  Henry's  plan;  it  is  certainly  very 
laborious,  and  the  work  promises  to  be  very  substan- 
tial. The  first  advantage,  which  I  have  marked  on 
page  5,  really  puts  history  in  a  new  light.  Do  you 


166  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

know  any  good  definition  of  history  ?  The  idea  which 
I  have  been  accustomed  to  entertain  of  it  is,  an  ac- 
count of  the  political  and  military  transactions  of  a 
nation  or  nations,  containing  the  characters  of  the 
principal  persons  who  have  contributed  to  the  several 
operations,  interspersed  with  various  reflections.  My 
meaning  is  clumsily  expressed,  but  you  see  it.  Mr. 
Henry  argues  strongly  for  his  extensive  plan;  but 
will  it  not  be  too  much  like  the  '  Dictionary  of  Arts 
and  Sciences'  in  an  historical  form  ?  Mr.  Hume,  when 
I  spoke  to  him  of  it,  before  I  saw  the  plan,  seemed 
to  think  it  would  be  much  of  the  nature  of  a  book 
published  a  few  years  ago,  Anderson's  '  History  of 
Commerce.'  The  language  of  this  history  will  not, 
as  far  as  I  think,  be  so  flowing  and  elegant  as  that 
of  some  writers  to  whom  our  taste  is  habituated ;  but 
it  seems  to  be  distinct,  and  sufficiently  expressive.  I 
throw  out  these  hasty  observations  to  you,  as  my  in- 
timate friend.  I  am  to  consider  the  plan  at  leisure, 
and  give  Mr.  Henry  my  opinion.  After  all  it  may  be 
a  valuable  work,  and,  if  well  executed,  not  only  may 
the  entire  book  find  a  place  in  libraries,  but  each 
branch  may  be  separately  published  for  the  use  of 
different  classes  of  readers.  I  met  him  today,  and 
told  him  I  was  to  send  him  one  of  his  plans. 

My  father  is  come  to  town,  and  never  looked  better 
in  his  life.  Honest  man  ! .  he  really  is,  I  believe,  very 
fond  of  me;  and  we  are  at  present  on  very  good 
terms.  I  behave  with  prudence  towards  the  person 
who  has  occasioned  so  much  uneasiness.  I  do  not  as 


DEATH    OF    INFANT.  167 

yet  see  any  appearances  of  her  multiplying.  My  wife 
joins  me  in  best  compliments  to  you  and  Mrs.  Temple. 
My  love  to  my  little  godson. 

Your  sincerely  affectionate  friend, 

JAMES  BOSWELL.  * 


44.]  Edinburgh,  1st  September,  1770. 

My  dear  Temple, 

After  about  eight-and-forty  hours'  illness  and  real 
danger,  my  wife  was,  on  Tuesday  last,  safely  delivered 
of  a  son;  but  the  poor  child  had  suffered  so  much 
that  he  did  not  live  above  two  hours.  Thank  God, 
my  wife  is  in  a  very  good  way.  I  received  yours  from 
Gainslaw  this  afternoon.  I  am  glad  you  are  so  near 
me :  you  may  imagine  my  feelings.  Pray  write  to  me : 
I  have  much  need  of  your  comfort.  If  you  can,  stay 
with  me  ten  days  ;  come  immediately,  if  you  can  only 
give  me  a  day  or  two.  I  would  wish  my  wife  were 
able  to  see  you. 

Most  sincerely  and  affectionately  yours, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


45.]  Edinburgh,  Gtk  September,  1770. 

My  dear  Friend, 

Yours  of  the  4th  instant  came  to  my  hands  yester- 
day. The  consolation  of  hearing  from  you,  and  the 
prospect  of  seeing  you  soon,  do  me  more  good  than 
your  philosophical  considerations  on  the  death  of  my 


168  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

child.  I  grant  you  that  there  is  no  reason  for  our 
having  an  affection  for  an  infant,  which,  as  it  is  not 
properly  a  rational  being,  can  have  no  qualities  to  en- 
gage us ;  yet  nature  has  given  us  such  an  instinctive 
fondness,  that  being  deprived  of  an  infant  gives  us 
real  distress.  I  have  experienced  this,  and  there  is 
no  arguing  against  it.  It  may  be  accounted  for,  even 
reasonably,  to  a  certain  degree,  because  every  parent 
annexes  to  the  child  a  number  of  most  agreeable  hopes; 
and  therefore  when  he  is  bereft  of  his  child  he  is  de- 
prived of  all  those  hopes.  This,  to  a  man  of  a  warm 
imagination,  is  no  small  loss.  I  was  this  forenoon 
paying  a  visit  to  John  Dalrymple.  He  told  me  that 
Fergusson  (Civil  Society)  used  to  maintain,  that  till  a 
child  was  four  years  old  it  was  no  better  than  a  cab- 
bage. However,  Fergusson  married  and  had  a  child, 
which  died  soon  after  it  was  born :  the  firm  philoso- 
pher was  changed  into  the  parent,  and  he  was  in  very 
great  grief, — greater,  said  Dalrymple,  than  he  would 
perhaps  have  been  had  his  child  died  at  the  age  of  one- 
and-twenty,  as  his  idea  of  what  the  child  might  have 
been  was  higher  than  in  all  probability  the  reality 
would  have  been.  John  Dalrymple  is  a  very  knowing, 
lively  companion ;  you  shall  have  him  with  us  at  my 
house.  He  tells  him  there  is  a  '  History  of  the  Barbar- 
ous Conquest  of  Mexico,'  written  by  one  of  the  Princes 
of  India  who  lived  at  the  time.  It  is  an  authentic 
book,  and  is  translated  into  French.  He  says  he  can- 
not undertake  to  read  it  himself,  but  he  is  very  desi- 
rous to  know  what  is  in  it.  I  have  undertaken  to  read 


CLASSICAL    SOCIALITY.  169 

it,  and  I  shall  do  it  with  great  pleasure.  If  the  Indian 
Prince  writes  of  the  horrible  transactions  of  the  Spa- 
niards in  his  country,  as  I  imagine  he  must  do,  his 
History  will  be  very  striking.  It  will  be  like  Michael 
Angelo's  picture  of  the  Day  of  Judgment.  Mr.  Hume 
is  just  now  at  Sir  Gilbert  Elliot's  country-seat;  he 
will  be  here  again  in  ten  days.  My  wife  recovers  as 
well  as  I  could  possibly  expect. 

Send  your  portmanteau  on  Monday,  directed  for  me, 
at  my  house  in  Chessels's  Buildings,  Canongate,  and 
ride  you  over  whenever  you  please.  Give  me  all  the 
time  you  can.  My  wife  will  be  in  her  drawing-room  next 
week,  if  it  pleases  God  to  continue  to  favour  her.  My 
dear  friend,  how  happy  will  it  make  me  to  have  you 
under  my  roof,  and  enjoy  with  you  some  invaluable 
hours  of  elegant  friendship  and  classical  sociality !  Let 
me  hear  from  you  frequently. 

Your  affectionate  friend, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


Our  two  correspondents  therefore  had  at  last  the 
opportunity  of  enjoying  "  some  invaluable  hours  of 
elegant  friendship  and  classical  sociality ;"  perhaps 
somewhat  the  less  social  and  the  more  elegant  in  that 
Mr.  Temple  seems  to  have  been,  unlike  Mr.  Boswell, 
given  to  great  temperance. 

The  subject  of  Boswell's  wife  is,  in  the  next  letter, 
touched  upon  in  a  very  characteristic  fashion. 


170  LETTERS    OF    BOS  WELL. 

46.]  Edinburgh,  Mh  October,  1770. 

My  dear  Temple, 

You  have  reason  to  blame  me  for  not  answering 
your  last  kind  letter  ere  now.  The  truth  is,  my  uncle, 
Commissioner  Cochrane,  has  been  very  ill;  he  lives 
about  six  miles  out  of  town,  and  I  have  been  frequently 
with  him :  he  is  better,  and,  I  hope,  quite  out  of  danger. 

I  rejoice  that  you  got  so  well  to  Gainslaw.  I  was 
afraid  you  might  find  the  journey  very  fatiguing,  but 
you  water-drinkers  are  Herculean  fellows.  I  believe 
it  would  be  better  for  me,  were  I  to  adopt  your  sys- 
tem ;  but  this  only  en  passant ;  it  is  a  bill  which  would 
meet  with  a  good  deal  of  opposition  in  my  lower  house. 

How  agreeable  is  it  to  me  to  find  that  my  old  and 
most  intimate  friend  was  so  happy  in  my  house !  We 
must  really  contrive  it  so  as  to  pass  a  good  part  of  our 
time  together.  I  never  will  rest  till  you  have  a  Living 
in  the  north ;  I  hope,  in  Northumberland  or  Cumber- 
land. 

You  cannot  say  too  much  to  me  of  my  wife.  How 
dare  you  quote  to  me  sua  si  bona  norint!  I  am  fully 
sensible  of  my  happiness  in  being  married  to  so  ex- 
cellent a  woman,  so  sensible  a  mistress  of  a  family,  so 
agreeable  a  companion,  so  affectionate  and  peculiarly 
proper  helpmate  for  me.  I  own  I  am  not  so  much  on 
my  guard  against  fits  of  passion  or  gloom  as  I  ought 
to  be,  but  that  is  really  owing  to  her  great  goodness. 
There  is  something  childish  in  it,  I  confess  :  I  ought 
not  to  indulge  in  such  fits ;  it  is  like  a  child  that  lets 
itself  fall  purposely,  to  have  the  pleasure  of  being  ten- 


RESIDENCE    IN    EDINBURGH.  171 

derly  raised  up  again  by  those  who  are  fond  of  it.  I 
shall  endeavour  to  be  better.  Upon  the  whole,  I  do 
believe  I  make  her  very  happy.  God  bless  and  pre- 
serve her ! 

Honest  Johnston  is  very  ill,  and  desires  to  be 
kindly  remembered  to  you ;  he  is  very  often  with  me ; 
I  always  find  him  a  worthy,  sensible  friend.  My  wife 
and  I  intend  to  set  out  on  Monday  for  Ayrshire  :  we 
shall  be  part  of  our  time  with  her  sisters,  and  part  at 
Auchinleck.  You  may  just  direct  for  me  at 'Edinburgh; 
the  post-office  people  forward  my  letters  to  me  wher- 
ever I  am.  I  wish  to  know  how  you  are  settling  your 
affairs.  Write  me  particularly,  and  you  shall  have  my 
father's  advice.  I  hope  Mrs.  Temple  and  your  young 
family  continue  well.  My  wife  joins  me  in  best  com- 
pliments. 

Your  most  affectionate  friend, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


The  following  fragment  of  a  letter  is  without  a  date, 
but  was  evidently  written  about  August,  1772. 


My  brother  John  took  a  ride  this  summer  as  far  as 
the  Land's  End  ;  he  was  at  Chudleigh,  no  less.  But  so 
strange  a  man  is  he,  that,  upon  hearing  that  it  was  a 
cross-road  to  Mamhead,  or  some  such  small  difficulty, 
he  did  not  pay  you  a  visit,  though  he  knew  that  I 
wished  it  much,  and  I  believe  wished  it  himself;  for 


172 


LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 


he  has  a  good  deal  of  kindness  under  that  curious  ap- 
pearance of  his.  He  disagreed  with  my  father's  lady, 
and  so  is  gone  back  to  Newcastle  with  Dr.  Wilson, 
physician  there.  David  is  a  fine  fellow,  but  I  am 
afraid  will  become  so  much  a  foreigner  that  we  shall 
find  it  difficult  to  get  him  home.  In  the  late  multi- 
tude of  bankruptcies,  a  gentleman  in  London,  with 
whom  my  father  was  anxious  to  have  David  admitted 
a  partner,  failed ;  and  as  it  is  so  uncertain  who  are  in 
good  circumstances,  who  in  bad,  my  father  is,  at  pre- 
sent, very  well  satisfied  that  David  should  continue  in 
Spain. 

I  had  some  hopes  that  Mr.  Samuel  Johnson  would 
have  visited  Scotland,  and  made  a  tour  through  part 
of  the  Highlands  and  isles  with  me  this  autumn,  but 
I  had  a  letter  from  him,  some  posts  ago,  telling  me 
that  he  could  not  come  this  year ;  but  he  says,  "  I  am 
very  sincere  in  my  intention  to  pay  the  visit  and  take 
the  ramble."  I  hope  you  hear  frequently  from  worthy 
Claxton ;  when  I  was  last  in  London,  I  formed  a  much 
higher  opinion  of  him  than  formerly :  I  hope  we  "three 
shall  meet  again  "  comfortably.  I  write  by  this  post 
to  Lord  Lisburne  to  thank  him  for  his  polite  letter. 
Worthy  Johnston  has  just  left  me  (now  the  24th). 
My  wife  and  he  join  me  in  best  compliments  to  you 
and  Mrs.  Temple.  I  ever  am,  my  dear  Temple,  with 
unalterable  affection  and  regard,  yours, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


• 


VISIT    TO    THE    HIGHLANDS. 


173 


It  has  been  observed,  that  Boswell's  marriage  and 
residence  in  Edinburgh  caused  a  suspension  of  his  in- 
dustry, even  in  the  pursuit  of  his  correspondence  with 
Dr.  Johnson.*  However  in  1 772,  when  he  reappeared 
in  London,  he  recommenced  collecting  material  for  the 
magnum  opus,  and  the  next  year  had  the  inexpres- 
sible joy  of  accompanying  his  revered  friend  on  his 
visit  to  the  Hebrides,  the  Journal  of  which,  incorpo- 
rated by  Mr.  Croker  into  the  Biography,  forms  perhaps 
one  of  its  most  interesting  portions. 

*  See  'Life  of  Johnson,'  anno  1770  (chap,  xxiv.,  Croker's  edit.). 


174 


CHAPTER  VII. 

1774-1775. 

LETTER  TO  MRS.  TEMPLE. — ADVICE  TO  HER  AS  A  WIFE. — BOSWELL's 
JOURNEY  TO  LONDON.  —  SUPERSTITION  AND  FEUDALISM.  — 
LORD  LISBURNE. — INCONVENIENCE  TO  A  CHAPLAIN  IN  BREAK- 
FASTING.— SUCCESS  IN  MAKING  ACQUAINTANCE. — THE  AMERI- 
CAN QUESTION. — TALKING  FROM  BOOKS. — LANGTON  GARRICK. 
—  TEMPLE'S  ESSAY  ON  THE  CLERGY.  —  BOSWELL'S  HOPE  OF 
PLACE. — LORD  PEMBROKE. — A  SPECULATION  ON  THE  PATRI- 
ARCHS.— BOSWELL'S  MORAL  FENCES. — TEMPLE'S  CHARACTER 

OF  GRAY  ADOPTED  BY  MASON.  —  LONDON  MAGAZINE. BOS- 
WELL  IN  ELECTION  CASE.  —  DINNERS  AND  PLEASURES  IN 
TOWN. — RICHARD  OWEN  CAMBRIDGE. — HERMES  HARRIS. 

AT  this  period  we  find  Boswell  differing  from  his  fa- 
ther as  to  the  wisdom  of  coming  to  London  ;  but  the 
son  has  his  way,  and,  fortunately  for  the  readers  of 
the  '  Life  of  Johnson/  takes  up  his  abode  in  the  Me- 
tropolis. He  now  rushes  about  in  violent  bustle  :  he 
himself  confesses  that  his  exuberant  spirits  prevent  his 
listening ;  but  he  sees  a  variety  of  men  and  manners, 
and  is  happy.  Still  one  cannot  help  wishing,  for  some 
reasons,  and  especially  on  his  own  account,  that  Mrs. 
Boswell  had  accompanied  him  on  this  visit. 

The  reader  will  find  Boswell  presently  breaking  out 
into  a  generous  rapture,  because  a  chance  extract  from 


TEMPLE'S  CHARACTER  OF  GRAY.  175 

one  of  Temple's  letters  to  him,  which  he  communicated 
anonymously  to  the  '  London  Magazine/  has  been  used 
by  Mason  in  his  *  Life  of  Gray.'  It  was  subsequently 
also  borrowed  by  Dr.  Johnson.  The  passage  in  ques- 
tion appeared  in  Vol.  41  of  the  Magazine  (March, 
1772),  and  the  editor  (or  Boswell)  introduces  the  cri- 
ticism as  written  "  by  a  gentleman  of  Cambridge,  of 
much  learning,  who  knew  him  (Gray)  well."  Mr. 
Mason  thus  prefaces  its  insertion  in  the  Memoirs*  : — 
"•I  might,"  says  he,  "  here  lay  down  my  pen ;  yet  if 
any  reader  should  still  want  his  character,  I  will  give 
him  one  "which  was  published  very  soon  after  Mr. 
Gray's  decease.  It  appears  to  be  well  written ;  and 
as  it  came  from  an  anonymous  pen,  I  choose  the  rather 
to  insert  it,  as  it  will  on  that  account  be  less  sus- 
pected of  partiality."  Although  Dr.  Johnson  thought 
Temple's  remarks  worthy  of  a  place  in  his  biography, 
yet  he  does  not  admit  them  in  a  very  cordial  manner. 
Having  quoted  them,  he  says,  "  His  character  I  am 
willing  to  adopt,  as  Mr.  Mason  has  done,  from  a  letter 
written  to  my  friend  Mr.  Boswell  by  the  Rev.  Mr. 
Temple,  rector  of  St.  Gluvias,  in  Cornwall ;  I  am  as 
willing  as  his  warmest  well-wisher  to  believe  it  true." 
Thus  Mr.  Temple's  casual  criticism,  unknown  to  him- 
self, was  presented  to  the  public  in  two  authentic 
works.  It  runs  thus : — "  Perhaps  he  was  the  most 
learned  man  in  Europe.  He  was  equally  acquainted 
with  the  elegant  and  profound  parts  of  science,  and 

*  Edit.  1775,  p.  401.     In  the  superb  edition  by  Mr.  Mathias 
(1814)  Mr.  Temple's  name  is  affixed  to  this  passage. 


176  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

that  not  superficially,  but  thoroughly.  He  knew  every 
branch  of  history,  both  natural  and  civil ;  had  read 
all  the  original  historians  of  England,  France,  and 
Italy,  and  was  a  great  antiquarian ;  criticism,  meta- 
physics, moral  politics,  made  a  principal  part  of  his 
study ;  voyages  and  travels  of  all  sorts  were  his 
favourite  amusements ;  and  he  had  a  fine  taste  in 
painting  fruits,  architecture,  and  gilding.  With  such 
a  fund  of  knowledge  his  conversation  must  have  been 
equally  instructing  and  entertaining ;  but  he  was  also 
a  good  man,  a  man  of  virtue  and  humanity.  There 
is  no  character  without  some  speck,  some  imperfec- 
tion ;  and  I  think  the  greatest  defect  in  his  was  an 
affectation  in  delicacy,  or  rather  effeminacy,  and  a 
visible  fastidiousness  or  contempt  and  disdain  of  his 
inferiors  in  science.  He  also  had  in  some  degree 
that  weakness  which  disgusted  Voltaire  so  much  in 
Mr.  Congreve;  though  he  seemed  to  value  others 
chiefly  according  to  the  progress  they  had  made  in 
knowledge,  yet  he  could  not  bear  to  be  considered 
himself  merely  a  man  of  letters;  and,  though  with- 
out birth  or  fortune  or  station,  his  desire  was  to  be 
looked  upon  as  an  honest  independent  gentleman,  who 
read  for  amusement.  Perhaps  it  may  be  said,  what 
signifies  so  much  knowledge  when  it  produced  so 
little  ?  Is  it  worth  taking  so  much  pains  to  leave  no 
memorial  but  a  few  Poems  ?  But  let  it  be  considered 
that  Mr.  Gray  was  to  others  at  least  pleasantly  em- 
ployed ;  to  himself  certainly  beneficially.  His  time 
passed  agreeably  ;  he  was  every  day  making  some  new 


TEMPLE'S  CHARACTER  OF  GRAY.  177 

acquaintance  in  science  ;  his  mind  was  enlarged,  his 
heart  softened,  his  virtue  strengthened  ;  the  world  and 
mankind  were  shown  to  him  without  a  mask,  and  he 
was  taught  to  consider  everything  as  trifling  and  un- 
worthy of  the  attention  of  a  wise  man,  except  the 
pursuit  of  knowledge  and  practice  of  virtue  in  that 
state  wherein  God  hath  placed  us." 

The  following  letter  is  to  Mrs.  Temple.  Boswell 
seems  here  to  imitate,  as  he  occasionally  does  also 
elsewhere,  the  Johnsonian  tone  and  style  of  address. 


75.]  Edinburgh,  31*rf  December,  1774. 

Dear  Madam, 

I  return  you  my  thanks  for  your  kind  letter,  and 
be  assured  that  it  gives  me  sincere  comfort  and  satis- 
faction to  think  that  my  dearest  friend  has  such  a 
wife  as  you.  I  need  not  tell  you  how  anxiously  I 
wish  for  his  happiness  ;  and  it  is  no  small  circum- 
stance that  he  has  a  partner  for  life  who  loves  him  as 
much  as  you  do,  and  who  has  qualities  which  I  should 
mention  fully  did  I  not  fear  to  be  suspected  of  paying 
compliments,  while  I  am  only  expressing  the  feelings 
of  my  heart. 

I  heartily  wish  you  joy  of  another  son,  and  am 
much  obliged  to  you  for  your  good  wishes  that  I  may 
have  one  soon.  I  shall  please  myself  with  the  hopes 
of  that  acquisition  ;  and  if  I  am  not  so  happy,  I  shall 
endeavour  to  be  content.  You  never  saw  two  finer 
children  than  my  two  little  daughters. 

My  wife  joins  me  in  best  compliments  to   you, 

N 


178  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

though  you  did  not  favour  us  with  your  company 
when  Mr.  Temple  was  last  in  Scotland.  I  hope  to 
have  the  pleasure  of  being  a  few  days  with  you  at 
Mamhead  next  spring.  Take  good  care  of  my  old  and 
most  intimate  friend,  and  be  always  good-humoured 
when  he  complains. 

I  am,  dear  Madam, 

Your  affectionate  humble  servant, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


48.]  Edinburgh,  3rd  January,  1775. 

My  dearest  Friend, 

The  enclosed  to  Mrs.  Temple  should  have  been  sent 
last  night,  but  was  omitted  in  the  hurry  I  was  in  to 
catch  the  post. 

I  was  lately  troubled  a  good  deal,  as  formerly,  about 
human  liberty  and  God's  prescience.*  I  had  recourse 
to  the  great  Montesquieu,  in  one  of  his  '  Lettres  Per- 
sanes,'  and  had  the  subject  made  clear  to  me,  as  I 
once  had  by  that  letter  when  I  was  at  Mamhead,  I 
forget  whether  by  chance  or  by  your  directing  me  to 
it.  Are  you  ever  disturbed  with  abstract  doubts  ? 

Adieu !  ever  yours, 

J.  B. 


*  This  question  is  discussed  in  the  '  Life  of  Johnson '  (April  15, 
1778)  by  the  Doctor  and  Boswell  and  Dr.  Mayo.  Johnson  sums 
it  up  thus :  "  All  theory  is  against  the  freedom  of  the  will, — all  ex- 
perience for  it." 


DR.  JOHNSON'S  JOURNEY  TO  SCOTLAND.       179 

49.]  Grantham,  18th.  March,  1775. 

My  dear  Temple, 

Your  letter  of  the  1st  February  was  really  a  feast  to 
me.  You  and  I  cannot  flatter  each  other.  We  may 
then  freely  communicate  our  agreeable  sentiments. 
You  have  read  Mr.  Johnson's  'Journey'  with  judg- 
ment and  taste,  and  your  remarks  are  all  well  said, — 
some  of  them  just,  even  in  my  opinion,  and  none  but 
what  most  people  will  approve.  The  second  sight  and 
the  tacksmen  are  to  me  valuable.  The  first  pleases  my 
superstition,  which  you  know  is  not  small,  and  being 
not  of  the  gloomy,  but  the  grand  species,  is  an  enjoy- 
ment ;  and  I  go  further  than  Mr.  Johnson,  for  the 
facts  which  I  heard  convinced  me.  The  latter  pleases 
my  old  feudal  spirit.  You  are  clearly  right  in  your 
criticism  on  his  using  the  word  elegance,  when  he 
speaks  of  Hebridian  entertainment.  I  must  tell  him 
too  that  when  he  says  Scotch  is  seldom  heard  in  splen- 
did companies,  he  gives  a  word  too  great,  for  I  hardly 
ever  saw  a  splendid  company  at  Edinburgh.  I  am 
pleased  with  Lord  Lisburne,  that  he  should  fancy  my 
remarks :  I  have  them  written  out,  and  you  shall  see 
them.  I  never  had  a  letter  from  his  Lordship  but  one, 
long  ago,  which  I  answered.  I  shall  pay  my  respects 
to  him  at  the  Admiralty. 

I  am  now  so  far  on  my  way  to  London  in  the  fly. 
It  is  Saturday  night,  and  we  repose  here  all  Sunday. 
I  have  an  acquaintance  in  Grantham,  the  Rev.  Mr. 
Palmer,  who  was  chaplain  to  the  late  Speaker :  he  is 
a  worthy,  learned,  social  man.  I  sent  him  a  card  that 

N  2 


180  LETTERS    OF    BO&WELL. 

I  would  breakfast  with  him  tomorrow,  if  not  incon- 
venient for  him :  his  answer  is  just  come,  which  you 
shall  hear : — As  breakfasting  will  be  attended  with 
some  inconveniences  in  the  present  state  of  his  family, 
he  will  be  very  glad  of  the  favour  of  his  company  to 
a  family  dinner  tomorrow  at  two  o'clock.     What  can 
be  the  meaning  of  this?     How  can  breakfasting  be 
inconvenient  to  a  family  that  dines  ?     Can  he  wish  to 
lie  long  in  the  morning,  that  Queen  Mab  may  be 
with  him,  "  tickling  the  parson  as  he  lies  asleep  ?" 
or  can  his  wife  and  daughter  not  dress  early  enough  ? 
Pray  guess  in  your  next,  with  a  sacerdotal  sagacity, 
what  this  can  be.     I  shall  try  to  learn,  and  let  you 
know.    It  is  now  early  in  the  morning.    I  am  writing 
in  a  great  English  parlour,  to  have  my  letter  ready 
for  the  post  at  nine ;  it  is  comfortable  to  have  such  an 
acquaintance  as  Palmer,  so  situated.     I  have  thought 
of  making  a  good  acquaintance  in  each  town  on  the 
road.     No  man  has  been  more  successful  in  making 
acquaintance  easily  than  I  have  been :  I  even  bring 
people  quickly  on  to  a  degree  of  cordiality.     I  am  a 
quick  fire,  but  I  know  not  if  I  last  sufficiently,  though 
surely,  my  dear  Temple,  there  is  always  a  warm  place 
for  you.     With  many  people  I  have  compared  myself 
to  a  taper,  which  can  light  up  a  great  and  lasting  fire 
though  itself  is  soon  extinguished.     I  called  on  Mrs. 
Collingwood  at  Morpeth:  you  have  seen  how  I  am 
received  in  that  house :  she  desired  to  be  kindly  re- 
membered to  you  and  Mrs.  Temple. 

As  to  American  affairs,  I  have  really  not  studied 


TALKING  FROM  BOOKS.  181 

the  subject :  it  is  too  much  for  me  perhaps,  or  I  am 
too  indolent  or  frivolous.  From  the  smattering  which 
newspapers  have  given  me,  I  have  been  of  different 
minds  several  times.  That  I  am  a  Tory,  a  lover  of 
power  in  monarchy,  and  a  discourager  of  much  liberty 
in  the  people,  I  avow ;  but  it  is  not  clear  to  me  that 
our  colonies  are  completely  our  subjects.  I  am  puz- 
zled with  the  charters.  At  any  rate  the  measures  of 
Administration  appear  to  have  been  ill-digested  and 
violent.  I  should  hope  that  things  may  now  take  a 
good  turn.  I  can  figure  Britain  and  the  colonies  in  a 
most  agreeable  state,  like  a  father  and  a  son  who  are 
both  sensible  and  spirited  men,  who  can  make  mutual 
allowances,  and  who,  having  a  kindness  for  each  other, 
study  to  promote  a  common  interest.  But  selfishness 
and  narrowness  of  comprehension  destroy  men  and 
nations.  I  began  '  Histoire  Philosophique  et  Poli- 
tique'  before  I  left  Edinburgh :  it  is  eloquent  indeed. 
I  promise  to  read  it  in  London,  and  we  shall  talk  of 
it  at  Mamhead.  Mr.  Johnson,  when  enumerating  our 
Club,  observed  of  some  of  us,  that  they  talked  from 
books, — Langton  in  particular.  Garrick,  he  said, 
would  talk  from  books,  if  he  talked  seriously.  "  //' 
said  he,  "  do  not  talk  from  books ;  you  do  not  talk 
from  books."  This  was  a  compliment  to  my  origi- 
nality :  but  I  am  afraid  I  have  not  read  books  enough 
to  be  able  to  talk  from  them.  You  are  very  kind  in 
saying  that  I  may  overtake  you  in  learning.  Believe 
me  though,  that  I  have  a  kind  of  impotency  of  study : 
however,  nil  desperandum  esf.  I  have  not  yet  fixed 


182  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

when  I  shall  be  with  you ;  I  would  make  it  as  late  as 
I  can,  that  the  weather  may  be  fine.  I  need  not  be 
at  Edinburgh  till  the  20th  May.  Might  I  not  see 
Bath  and  Bristol  in  coming  to  see  you  ?  How  would 
it  do  to  get  Claxton  or  Nicholls  to  come  with  me  ? 
But  we  will  be  better  alone,  as  we  can  pour  out  all 
ourselves,  as  plain  as  downright  Skipper  or  as  old 
Montaigne.  You  rejoice  me  by  the  information  that 
the  Bishops  of  Exeter  and  Derry  have  given  you  such 
promises.  I  hope  the  former  shall  make  good  his,  for 
I  would  rather  keep  you  in  England.  The  second  good 
living  that  falls  can  be  at  no  great  distance  of  time. 
It  pleases  me  that  your  Essay*  has  been  the  occasion 
of  the  Bishop's  friendship.  You  are  right  in  resolving 
to  undertake  something  more  extensive :  I  am  sure  you 
have  learning  and  good  sense  and  an  elegant  style : 
let  me  know  what  you  think  of  writing.  Eor  my  own 
part,  I  have  continual  schemes  of  publication,  but  can- 
not fix.  I  am  still  very  unhappy  with  my  father.  We 
are  so  totally  different  that  a  good  understanding  is 
scarcely  possible.  He  looks  on  my  going  to  London 
just  now  as  an  expedition,  as  idle  and  extravagant, 
when  in  reality  it  is  highly  improving  to  me,  consider- 
ing the  company  which  I  enjoy ;  and  I  think  it  is  also 
for  my  interest;  as  in  time  I  may  get  something.  Lord 
Pembroke  was  very  obliging  to  me  when  he  was  in 
Scotland,  and  has  corresponded  with  me  since.  I  have 
hopes  from  him.  How  happy  should  I  be  to  get  an 

*    '  An  Essay  on  the  Clergy,   their  Studies,  Recreations,'  etc. 
London,  1774. 


PATRIARCHAL   EXAMPLES.  183 

independency  by  my  own  influence  while  my  father  is 
alive ! 

I  am  in  charming  health  and  spirits.     There  is  a 
handsome  maid  at  this  inn,  who  interrupts  me  by 
coming  sometimes  into  the  room.     I  have  no  confes- 
sion to  make,  my  priest ;  so  be  not  curious. 
***** 

Dr.  Young  says,— 

"  A  fever  argues  better  than  a  Clarke." 
It  is  as  fair  reasoning  for  me  to  say  that  this  handsome 
maid  (Matty  is  her  name)  argues  better  than — whom 
you  please.  But  remember,  I  am  only  speculating. 
My  best  compliments  to  Mrs.  Temple,  and  kind  wishes 
to  your  young  ones.  Write  to  me  at  Messrs.  Dilly's. 
Let  us  keep  up  a  close  fire,  now  that  I  am  free  from 
business. 

I  am  ever,  my  dear  friend, 

Most  faithfully  yours, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


50.]  JLondon,  4th  April,  1775. 

My  dear  Temple, 

My  last  was  indeed  a  characteristical  letter  :  I  was 
quite  in  my  old  humour.  My  mind,  formerly  a  wild, 
has  been  for  some  years  pretty  well  enclosed  with 
moral  fences ;  but  I  fear  the  fences  are  stone  hedges 
(to  use  a  strange  expression  of  Mr.  Johnson  in  his 
Journey)  of  a  loose  construction,  for  a  storm  of  pas- 
sion would  blow  them  down ;  when  at  Grantham,  there 


184  LETTERS    O      BOSWELL. 

was  a  pretty  brisk  gale,  which  shook  them,  but  now 
Reason,  that  steady  builder  and  overseer,  has  set  them 
firm ;  or  they  have  proved  to  be  better  than  I  thought 
them,  for  my  enclosures  are  in  as  good  order  as  ever. 
I  thank  you  however  for  your  friendly  props ;  your 
kind  counsels  pleased  me  much. 

Franklin  has  written  upon  stilling  the  waves  of  the 
ocean  by  oil,  as  I  see  you  would  quiet  the  turbulent 
Americans  by  lenient  measures. 

Your  soft  admonitions  would  at  any  time  calm  the 
tempests  of  my  soul.  I  told  you  that  my  arguments 
for  concubinage  were  only  for  theory ;  the  patriarchs 
might  have  a  plurality,  because  they  were  not  taught 
that  it  was  wrong ;  but  I,  who  have  always  been  taught 
that  it  is  wrong,  cannot  have  the  same  enjoyment  with- 
out an  impression  of  its  being  so,  and  consequently 
without  [my  moral  sense  suffering].  But  is  not  this 
prejudice  ?  Be  it  so. 

I  think  I  told  you  in  my  last  that  I  am  proud  of 
having  such  a  friend,  when  I  read  your  elegant  letter 
upon  Mr.  Johnson's  Journey,  and  other  subjects :  I  am 
prouder  today.  Mr.  Mason  concludes  his  '  Life  of  Gray' 
with  a  character  of  him,  which  he  says  is  well  written, 
and  which  he  says  he  has  taken  from  the  '  London 
Magazine.'  He  mentions  it  as  by  an  anonymous 
writer.  What  is  it,  think  you,  but  a  character  of  Gray 
written  by  you  to  me  in  a  letter  soon  after  his  death, 
and  which  I  greatly  admired,  and  copied  out  for  the 
Magazine,  of  which  I  am  a  proprietor  ?  It  appears  to 
great  advantage  as  the  peroration  of  Mason's  '  Life  of 


MASON'S  LIFE  OF  GRAY.  185 

Gray/  and  Mason  has  written  several  notes  upon  it. 
If  you  are  not  to  have  the  book  sent  down  to  you  by 
Lord  Lisburne  immediately,  I  will  have  the  character 
and  notes  reprinted  in  a  newspaper,  and  send  you  a 
copy.  Mr.  Mason  must  be  informed  who  it  is  that 
wrote  a  character  which  he  has  thought  worthy  of  so 
much  distinction.  When  you  and  I  sat  up  all  night 
at  Cambridge  and  read  Gray  with  a  noble  enthusiasm ; 
when  we  first  used  to  read  Mason's  '  Elfrida,'  and 
when  we  talked  of  that  elegant  knot  of  worthies,  Gray, 
Mason,  and  Walpole,  etc.,  how  would  (or  should)  we 
have  been  elated  to  know  that  a  character  drawn  by 
you  should  be  placed,  by  the  hands  of  Mason,  upon 
the  top  of  Gray's  pyramid  as  a  suitable  apex ! 

You  must  write ;  you  must  publish ;  you  must  have 
fame ;  your  letters  are  admirable.  Were  you  as  rich 
as  Pliny,  had  you  his  fine  seat,*  your  epistles  would  be 
as  good ;  for,  like  all  other  men  of  sensibility,  your 
writings  are  coloured  by  your  circumstances. 

I  was  not  long  in  town  without  calling  on  Claxton ; 
he  is  the  most  unchangeable  man  that  I  almost  ever 
knew;  this  year  however  two  considerable  varieties 
have  occurred ;  he  has  resumed  his  own  hair,  and  has 
ascended  to  the  second  story  of  No.  21. 

I  had  last  night  an  unexpected  call  to  be  at  the  Bar 
of  the  House  of  Commons  this  day  for  Captain  Erskine, 
brother  to  Miss  Floyer's  husband,  as  counsel  for  him 
in  the  Clackmannan  election,  where  he  is  petitioner : 
I  had  neither  wig  nor  gown  with  me.  I  posted  to 

*  Sic  in  orig. 


136  LETTERS    OF    BOS  WELL. 

Claxton's  early  this  morning,  and  he  has  kindly  lent 
me  both :  I  know  not  but  in  equity  he  ought  to  have 
a  share  of  the  guineas  which  they  bring.  He  tells  me 
you  are  about  some  Church  History :  let  it  be  concise 
and  philosophical ;  I  should  think  it  will  have  success. 
I  have  not  yet  seen  Lord  Lisburne  ;  I  shall  call  on 
him  soon,  and  hope  to  get  acquainted  with  him.  You 
have  drawn  me  at  whole  length  in  your  last ;  you  have 
analyzed  me  too.  I  am  indeed  as  happy  as  you  could 
wish.  Today  I  dine  at  Sir  John  Pringle's ;  tomorrow 
at  Dilly's,  with  Mr.  Johnson  and  Langton,  etc. ;  Thurs- 
day, at  Torn  Davies's,  with  Mr.  Johnson,  and  some 
others;  Friday,  at  the  Turk's  Head,  Gerrard  Street, 
with  our  Club,  Sir  Joshua  Reynolds,  etc.,  who  now  dine 
once  a  month,  and  sup  every  Friday.  My  forenoons 
are  spent  in  visiting,  and  you  know  the  distances  of 
London  make  that  business  enough.  Mr.  Johnson 
has  allowed  me  to  write  out  a  supplement  to  his  Jour- 
ney, but  I  wish  I  may  be  able  to  settle  to  it.  This 
House  of  Commons  work  will  be  good  ballast  for  me. 
I  am  little  in  what  is  called  the  gaiety  of  London ;  I 
went  to  Mrs.  Abington's  benefit  to  please  Sir  Joshua 
Reynolds.  I  have  been  at  no  other  public  place  ex- 
cept exhibitions  of  pictures  with  Lord  Mountstuart ; 
he  is  warmly  my  friend,  and  has  engaged  to  do  for 
me.  His  brother's  lady,  a  sweet,  handsome,  lively  little 
woman,  is  my  wife's  intimate  friend :  I  pass  many  of 
my  morning  hours  with  her.  Paoli  and  I  (for  his 
simple  designation  is  the  highest)  are  to  be  at  Wilton 
sometime  between  the  10th  and  26th  of  this  month; 


RICHARD    OWEN    CAMBRIDGE.  187 

I  shall  go  from  thence  to  your  parsonage,  and  over- 
power you  with  vivacity,  and  return  by  Bath.  My 
wife  and  children  were  well ;  I  heard  from  them  a  few 
days  ago.  Write  often,  under  cover,  to  "  Col.  Archi- 
bald Campbell,  M.P.,  London." 

Ever  yours, 

J.  B. 


51.]  London,  Ylth  April,  1775. 

My  dear  Temple, 

I  am  indeed  enjoying  this  Metropolis  to  the  full, 
according  to  my  taste,  except  that  I  cannot,  I  see, 
have  a  plenary  indulgence  from  you  for  Asiatic  mul- 
tiplicity. Be  not  afraid  of  me,  except  when  I  take 
too  much  claret ;  and  then  indeed  there  is  a  furor 
brevis,  as  dangerous  as  anger.  I  intended  to  have 
set  out  for  Wilton  tomorrow ;  but  I  am  invited  to  a 
dinner  on  the  banks  of  the  Thames,  at  Richard  Owen 
Cambridge's,*  where  are  to  be  Reynolds,  Johnson,  and 

*  Boswell,  in  acknowledging  some  useful  communications  im- 
parted to  him  by  Mr.  Cambridge,  says  of  him,  in  laborious  compli- 
ment, "  If  a  beautiful  villa  on  the  banks  of  the  Thames,  a  few  miles 
from  London ;  a  numerous  and  excellent  library,  which  he  accurately 
knows  and  reads ;  a  choice  collection  of  pictures,  which  he  under- 
stands and  relishes ;  an  easy  fortune ;  an  amiable  family ;  an  exten- 
sive circle  of  friends  and  acquaintances,  distinguished  by  rank, 
fashion,  and  gemus ;  a  literary  fame  various,  elegant,  and  still  in- 
creasing ;  colloquial  talents,  rarely  to  be  found ;  and  with  all  those 
means  of  happiness  enjoying,  when  well  advanced  in  years,  health 
and  vigour  of  body,  serenity  and  animation  of  mind,  do  not  entitle 
him  to  be  addressed  fortunate  senex,  I  know  not  to  whom  in  any 
age  that  expression  could  with  propriety  have  been  used." — Life 
of  Johnson,  anno  1782. 


188  LETTERS    OF    BOS  WELL. 

Hermes  Harris.*  "  'Do you  think  so  ?'  said  he.  '  Most 
certainly!  said  I"  Do  you  remember  how  I  used  to 
laugh  at  his  style  when  we  were  in  the  Temple  ?  He 
thinks  himself  an  ancient  Greek  from  these  little  pe- 
culiarities, as  the  imitators  of  Shakspeare,  whom  the 
'  Spectator'  mentions,  thought  they  had  done  wonder- 
fully when  they  had  produced  a  line  similar : — 

"  And  so  good  morrow  to  ye,  good  Master  Lieutenant !" 

I  have  rather  had  too  much  dissipation  since  I  came 
last  to  town.  I  try  to  keep  a  journal,  and  shall  show 
you  that  I  have  done  tolerably ;  but  it  is  hardly  cre- 
dible what  ground  I  go  over,  and  what  a  variety  of 
men  and  manners  I  contemplate  in  a  day ;  and  all  the 
time  I  myself  ampars  magna,  for  my  exuberant  spiritsf 

*  Spoken  of  generally  in  the  '  Life  of  Johnson'  as  Mr.  Harris  of 
Salisbury,  or  James  Harris,  Esq.,  father  of  the  first  Earl  of  Salis- 
bury. Dr.  Johnson,  in  reference  to  his  work  '  Hermes,'  calls  him 
a  "coxcomb." — See  'Life  of  Johnson'  (November  3,  1773),  where 
Boswell  depreciates  while  he  appears  to  defend  Mr.  Harris.  In  an- 
other passage  (April  7th,  1770)  Johnson  is  made  to  say,  "Harris 
is  a  sound,  sullen  scholar ;  he  does  not  like  interlopers.  Hams 
however  is  a  prig,  and  a  bad  prig."  He  seems  however  to  have 
conversed  with  Mr.  Harris  ';olerably  complacently  on  several  occa- 
sions ;  but  their  friend  Boswell  has  left,  as  in  other  cases,  no  very 
pleasant  impression  as  to  either  the  worth  of  Mr.  Harris  or  the 
charitableness  of  Dr.  Johnson. 

f  "  I  am  for  the  most  part  either  too  high  strung  or  too  low." 
February,  1777,  (Philobiblion,  vol.  ii.)  In  the  same  paper  is  another 
remark  of  Boswell's,  which  perhaps  may  not  be  misapplied  here : 
— "A  dull  fool  was  nothing  that  he  should  show  himself;  the  great 
thing  is  to  have  your  fool  well  furnished  with  animal  spirits,  and 
he  will  supply  to  you  a  rich  fund  of  risibility."  Boswell  adds,  that 
he  gave  expression  to  this  wisdom  "at  a  certain  Court  in  Germany." 


EXUBERANT    SPIRITS.  189 

will  not  let  me  listen  enough.  On  Wednesday  Ge- 
neral Paoli  and  I  shall  be  at  Wilton ;  I  should  sup- 
pose we  may  stay  there  till  Saturday.  I  shall  take 
the  fly  at  Salisbury,  and  so  get  to  Exeter.  Write  to 
me  at  Wilton,  by  Salisbury,  and  I  will  let  you  know 
what  day  I  can  be  at  Exeter.  I  shall  not  have  it  in 
my  power  to  be  with  you  more  than  two  or  three 
days,  as  I  must  see  Bath  and  be  back  here  by  the  first 
of  May ;  but  we  shall  see  what  is  to  be  done  when  we 
meet. 

By  all  means  let  us  dine  with  Lord  Clifford.  Lord 
Lisburne  and  I  have  never  met  yet.  I  hope  to  see 
him  when  I  return,  and  then  I  shall  get  you  what  in- 
formation you  want  from  Lord  Stormont.  I  am  just 
going  to  the  Lord  Mayor's  grand  dinner  on  Easter 
Monday,  so  must  conclude.  I  have  only  to  tell  you, 
as  my  divine,  that  I  yesterday  received  the  holy  sacra- 
ment in  St.  Paul's  Church,  and  was  exalted  in  piety. 

My  best  compliments  to  Mrs.  Temple. 

Ever  yours  most  affectionately, 

J.  B. 


190 


CHAPTER  VIII. 

1775. 

DR.  JOHNSON  REPRESSES  THE  PUBLICATION  OF  THE  '  TOTJR  TO 

THE  HEBRIDES.' — PREFERMENT  FOR  TEMPLE. — MR.  THRALE. 

BEAUCLERK'S  ELEGANT  VILLA,  ETC.  —  A  DAY'S  WORK.  —  DR. 
JOHNSON.  —  WILKES.  —  LORD  BUTE'S  DAUGHTER-IN-LAW.  — 
MISS  BOSVILLE. — RETURN  TO  EDINBURGH. — HARRY  DUNDAS 

MADE  KING'S  ADVOCATE.  —  DR.  JOHNSON'S  INJUNCTION. 

CONJUGAL  LOVE.  —  CONTRAST  BETWEEN  EDINBURGH  AND 
LONDON. — PAOLl's  KINDNESS. — THE  STATE  AND  DIGNITY  OF  A 
COACH. — PROFESSIONAL  PRACTICE. — ANECDOTE  OF  MR.  HUME. 
— COURTIERS  AND  COURTESANS. — HUME  ON  PITT. — THE  AME- 
RICAN WAR. — BOSWELL'S  AMBITION  FOR  POLITICAL  POWER. — 

HUME    ON   DR.  JOHNSON.  TEMPLE  ON    HUME.  —  LETTER   TO 

MASON. — DR.  BLACK. — LORD    AUCHINLECK  ON  JOHNSON. 

THE  egotism  of  one  remark,  which  the  reader  will 
find  in  the  following  letter,  that  Dr.  Johnson  was 
"  not  apt  to  encourage  one  to  share  reputation  with 
himself,"  is  amusing  enough,  but,  on  the  instance  in 
question,  probably  true.  The  association  of  Boswell 
with  Dr.  Johnson,  personal  and  literary,  as  we  have 
abundant  evidence,  was  not  productive  of  unalloyed 
satisfaction  to  the  latter.  Boswell's  plan  of  writing 
out  his  remarks  for  Temple  to  revise,  especially  if  it 
means  that  the  letters  are  to  be  fathered  upon  Tem- 
ple, is  a  curious  proposition ;  but  Boswell  was  very 


THE    TOUR    TO    THE    HEBRIDES.  191 

anxious  to  publish  his  Journal,  while  Dr.  Johnson 
was  content  that  his  own  work  should  not  be  inter- 
fered with.  In  the  following  letter  some  interesting 
conversations  with  Hume  will  be  found  recorded. 
Boswell  was  now,  it  seems,  as  diligent  with  Hume  as 
he  was  at  other  times  with  Dr.  Johnson. 


52.]  London,  IQth  May,  1775. 

My  dear  Temple, 

I  had  the  pleasure  to  receive  from  you  yesterday  one 
of  the  most  judicious  letters  you  ever  wrote.  I  mean 
that  in  it  you  judge  with  more  propriety  of  yourself 
than  I  have  almost  ever  seen  you  do.  There  is  more 
of  the  yva>0i  a-eavrdv  in  it  than  usual.  Depend  upon 
it,  my  excellent  friend,  you  are  in  the  very  situation 
adapted  to  your  bodily  frame  and  disposition  of  mind, 
— a  pretty  little  parish,  a  fine  country,  a  relation  and 
a  friend  for  your  patron. 

I  breakfasted  with  his  Lordship  of  Lisburne  yes- 
terday :  he  has  a  great  value  for  you,  and  knows  you 
perfectly.  He  said,  if  you  had  been  the  greatest  chief 
in  Scotland  he  could  not  have  treated  you  with  more 
respect.  My  Lady  is  very  amiable,  and  spoke  of  you 
in  such  terms  as  charmed  me.  I  am  clear  that  you 
should  not  leave  Mamhead,  unless  for  some  very  ad- 
vantageous settlement  indeed.  My  Lord's  chief  exr 
pectations  for  you  are  from  the  Bishop  of  Exeter. 
His  own  chaplain  only  stands  between  you  and  pro- 
motion in  his  diocese.  I  would  rather  wish  you  to 


192  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

have  less  in  Devonshire,  as  that  you  may  continue  at 
Mamhead,  than  a  much  better  living  in  Ireland.  I 
am  very  willing  that  you  should  rise  and  have  more 
money ;  but  believe  me,  neither  the  one  nor  the  other 
are  essential  to  your  happiness,  or  to  that  of  your 
children. 

I  am  at  present  in  a  tourbillon  of  conversations  ; 
but  how  come  you  to  throw  in  the  Thrales  among 
the  Reynoldses  and  the  Beauclerks  ?  Mr.  Thrale  is  a 
worthy,  sensible  man,  and  has  the  wits  much  about 
his  house ;  but  he  is  not  one  himself.  Perhaps  you. 
mean  Mrs.  Thrale. 

I  have  not  written  out  another  line  of  my  remarks 
on  the  Hebrides.  I  found  it  impossible  to  do  it  in 
London.  Besides,  Dr.  Johnson  does  not  seem  very 
desirous  that  I  should  publish  any  supplement.  Be- 
tween ourselves,  he  is  not  apt  to  encourage  one  to  share 
reputation  with  himself.  But  don't  you  think  I  may 
write  out  my  remarks  in  Scotland,  and  send  them  to 
be  revised  by  you,  and  then  they  may  be  published 
freely  ?  Give  me  your  opinion  of  this. 

I  am  ashamed  to  say  that  I  have  not  yet  written  to 
Mason  about  your  character  of  Gray.*  It  would  have 
been  too  late  for  the  second  edition  of  his  book, 
which  is  come  out.  I  shall  certainly  write.  Lord 
Lisburne  is  to  send  you  the  books  you  mention  when- 
ever he  has  a  case  made  up.  You  will  devour  Gray,  I 
suppose,  with  eagerness  ;  but  perhaps  you  will  be  dis- 
appointed. Dr.  Johnson  does  not  like  the  book ;  he 
*  See  ante,  p.  185. 


TERMS    AT    THE    TEMPLE.  193 

however  says,  that  one  should  consider  these  letters 
were  written  and  received  in  a  long  series  of  years, 
and  so  might  do  very  well  at  the  time ;  whereas  now 
we  must  read  them  as  one  mass,  which  makes  a  great 
difference.  I  shall  talk  to  Davies  of  Muratori.  Clax- 
ton  has,  I  hope,  forgiven  me;  but  he  has  not  asked 
me  to  dine,  and  I  am  apprehensive  is  not  quite 
pleased ;  but  I  shall  call  on  him  again. 

I  have  now  been  twice  at  Commons  in  the  Inner 
Temple ;  I  shall  be  twice  next  week,  so  as  to  make 
one  Term.  Direct  for  me  at  Edinburgh,  after  Satur- 
day, as  I  go  next  week.  I  am  much  pleased  that  I  am 
now  a  favourite  with  Mrs.  Temple.  Make  my  best 
compliments  to  her.  Adieu,  my  dearest  friend  ! 

Ever  yours, 

J.  B. 


53.]  Streatham,  11  th  May,  1775. 

My  dear  Temple, 

It  gives  me  acute  pain  that  I  have  not  written 
more  to  you  since  we  parted  last ;  but  I  have  been 
like  a  skiff  in  the  sea,  driven  about  by  a  multiplicity 
of  waves.  I  am  now  at  Mr.  Thrale's  villa,  at  Streat- 
ham, a  delightful  spot.  Dr.  Johnson  is  here  too.  I 
came  yesterday  to  dinner,  and  this  morning  Dr.  John- 
son and  I  return  to  London;  and  I  go  with  Mr. 
Beauclerk  to  see  his  elegant  villa  and  library,  worth 
£3000,  at  Muswell  Hill,  near  Highgate,  and  return 
and  dine  with  him.  I  hope  Dr.  Johnson  will  dine 
with  us.  I  am  in  that  dissipated  state  of  mind  that 


194  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

I  absolutely  cannot  write  ;  I  at  least  imagine  so.  But 
while  I  glow  with  gaiety,  I  feel  friendship  for  you, 
nay,  admiration  of  some  of  your  qualities,  as  strong 
as  you  could  wish.  My  excellent  friend,  let  us  ever 
cultivate  that  mutual  regard  which,  as  it  has  lasted 
till  now,  will,  I  trust,  never  fail. 

Worthy  Claxton  had  not  taken  my  neglect  amiss  : 
he  has  been  in  a  hurry  when  I  imagined  him  not 
satisfied  with  me.  I  ate  bread  and  cheese  and  drank 
negus  with  him  at  his  chambers  on  Sunday  evening. 

I  have  a  cause  to  come  on  in  the  House  of  Lords, 
on  Friday  ;  it  may  perhaps  last  till  Monday.  I  must 
set  off  for  Edinburgh  on  Monday  evening,  to  be  in 
time  for  the  General  Assembly. 

On  Saturday  last  I  dined  with  John  Wilkes  and 
his  daughter,  and  nobody  else,  at  the  Mansion-house ; 
it  was  a  most  pleasant  scene.  I  had  that  day  break- 
fasted with  Dr.  Johnson ;  I  drank  tea  with  Lord 
Bute's  daughter-in-law,  and  I  supped  with  Miss 
Bos  well.  What  variety ! 

Mr.  Johnson  went  with  me  to  Beauclerk's  villa, 
Beauclerk  having  been  ill;  it  is  delightful,  just  at 
Highgate.  He  has  one  of  the  most  numerous  and 
splendid  private  libraries  that  I  ever  saw;  green- 
houses, hot-houses,  observatory,  laboratory  for  chemi- 
cal experiments,  in  short  everything  princely.  We 
dined  with  him  at  his  box  at  the  Adelphi.  Write 
next  to  me  at  Edinburgh.  My  best  compliments  to 
Mrs.  Temple.  I  am  ever  most  affectionately  yours, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


DUNUAS  AS  KING'S  ADVOCATE.  195 

I  have  promised  to  Dr.  Johnson  to  read  when  I 
get  to  Scotland,  and  to  keep  an  account  of  what  I 
read :  I  shall  let  you  know  how  I  go  on.  My  mind 
must  be  nourished. 


54.]  Grantham,  %2nd  May,  1775. 

My  dear  Temple, 

Here  I  am  again  on  my  return  from  London,  in 
almost  as  good  spirits  as  when  I  wrote  to  you  on  my 
way  to  that  metropolis ;  but  the  handsome  chamber- 
maid is  gone  from  the  inn,  and  I  have  the  prospect 
of  seeing  my  excellent  wife  very  soon.  I  beg  your 
pardon  for  neglecting  to  speak  to  Davies  about  Mu- 
ratori ;  I  was  really  in  such  a  hurry  of  variety  that  it 
escaped  me.  You  can  easily  write  to  him,  or  make 
Claxton  call  at  his  shop.  I  drank  tea  with  Miss 
Claxton  one  day  last  week,  and  sat  with  her  till  he 
came  home  from  the  Antiquarian  Society.  I  hope  I 
am  well  with  that  worthy  man  and  his  sister ;  better 
people  cannot  be  found.  Only  think,  Temple,  of  a 
law  promotion  in  Scotland ;  Harry  Dundas  is  going  to 
be  made  King's  Advocate, — Lord  Advocate  at  thirty- 
three  !  I  cannot  help  being  angry  and  somewhat  fret- 
ful at  this ;  he  has,  to  be  sure,  strong  parts,  but  he  is 
a  coarse,  unlettered,  unfanciful  dog.  Why  is  he  so 
lucky  ?  is  not  such  an  office  degraded  by  his  getting 
it?  By  some  strange  coincidence  he,  a  branch  of  a 
Whig  family,  is  a  great  favourite  of  Lord  Mansfield, 
and  so  he  has  jumped  so  high  now,  for  I  believe  Lord 

o  2 


196  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

Rockingham  made  him  Solicitor-General.    Tell  me,  is 
it  wrong  to  feel  this  at  his  success  ? 

I  have  now  eat  a  Term's  Commons  in  the  Inner 
Temple.  You  cannot  imagine  what  satisfaction  I  had 
in  the  form  and  ceremony  of  the  Hall.  I  must  try 
to  prevail  with  my  father  to  consent  to  my  trying  my 
fortune  at  the  English  Bar.  Do  what  I  may,  I  have 
a  treasure  in  having  your  friendship.  I  passed  a  de- 
lightful day  yesterday.  After  breakfasting  with  Paoli, 
and  worshipping  at  St.  Paul's,  I  dined  tete-a-tete  with 
my  charming  Mrs.  Stuart,  of  whom  you  have  read  in 
my  journal ;  she  refused  to  be  of  a  party  at  Richmond, 
that  she  and  I  might  enjoy  a  farewell  interview.  We 
dined  in  all  the  elegance  of  two  courses  and  a  dessert, 
with  dumb-waiters,  except  when  the  second  course 
and  the  dessert  were  served.  We  talked  with  unre- 
served freedom,  as  we  had  nothing  to  fear;  we  were 
philosophical,  upon  honour, — not  deep,  but  feeling ;  we 
were  pious ;  we  drank  tea,  and  bid  each  other  adieu 
as  finely  as  romance  paints.  She  is  my  wife's  dearest 
friend ;  so  you  see  how  beautiful  our  intimacy  is.  I 
then  went  to  Mr.  Johnson's,  and  he  accompanied  me 
to  Billy's,  where  we  supped ;  and  then  he  went  with 
me  to  the  inn  in  Holborn,  where  the  Newcastle  Ply  sets 
out :  we  were  warmly  affectionate.  He  is  to  buy  for 
me  a  chest  of  books,  of  his  choosing,  off  stalls,  and  I 
am  to  read  more  and  drink  less ;  that  was  his  counsel. 
I  have  called  on  my  friend  Dr.  Palmer,  and  I  am  now 
so  sleepy  that  I  can  scarcely  keep  my  eyes  from  clo- 
sing. Tell  Mrs.  Temple  that  I  am  a  favourite  with 


JOURNEY    TO    EDINBURGH.  197 

her  because  she  knows  me  better,  and  that  she  may 
be  assured  that  the  more  she  knows  me  the  more 
allowance  will  she  make  for  my  faults.  God  bless 
and  preserve  you,  my  dearest  friend ! 

Ever  yours, 

J.  B. 

There  is  a  Miss  Silverton  in  the  Ely  with  me,  an 
amiable  creature,  who  has  been  in  France.  I  can 
unite  little  fondnesses  with  perfect  conjugal  love.  Re- 
member to  put  my  letters  in  a  book  neatly ;  see  which 
of  us  does  it  first. 


This  postscript  lets  us  into  the  secret  that  the 
letters  here  presented  to  the  reader  were  certainly 
thought  worthy  of  being  kept  by  the  writer,  and  that 
the  idea  of  other  eyes  conning  them  was  not  absent 
from  his  mind. 

The  Mrs.  Stuart  above  referred  to  is  probably  the 
wife  of  the  gentleman  who,  once  joking  Boswell  for 
being  ugly,  the  latter  deemed  it  a  pleasant  retort  to 
ask  him  whether  his  wife  thought  so. 


55.]  Edinburgh,  3rd  June,  1775. 

My  dearest  Friend, 

A  better  journey  could  not  be  than  my  last  from 
London  to  Edinburgh.  I  was  in  great  health  and 
spirits ;  and  every  occurrence  of  every  sort  was  made 
into  amusement  of  some  kind  or  other,  as  we  are  told 


198  LETTERS    OF    BOS  WELL. 

distillers  will  extract  a  spirit  from  substances  in  them- 
selves disagreeable  enough.  I  visited  my  brother  John 
near  Newcastle,  and  found  him  pretty  much  in  the 
same  state  as  when  I  saw  him  in  March ;  he  does  not 
seem  to  be  unhappy.  On  my  arrival  here  I  had  the 
pleasure  to  find  my  wife  and  two  little  daughters  as 
well  as  I  could  wish ;  but  indeed,  my  worthy  priest, 
it  required  some  philosophy  to  bear  the  change  from 
England  to  Scotland.  The  unpleasing  tone,  the  rude 
familiarity,  the  barren  conversation  of  those  whom  I 
found  here,  in  comparison  with  what  I  had  left,  really 
hurt  my  feelings.  The  excellent  Laird  of  Grange  hap- 
pened to  be  here  for  some  days  after  I  came  down; 
he  was  a  comfort  to  me.  He  was  delighted  with  my 
account  of  my  late  jaunt  into  Devonshire ;  and  Lord 
Clifford  and  his  old  trees  and  the  priests,  etc.,  feasted 
his  imagination. 

The  General  Assembly  is  sitting,  and  I  practise  at 
its  Bar.  There  is  de  facto  something  low  and  coarse 
in  such  employment,  though  on  paper  it  is  a  Court 
of  Supreme  Judicature ;  but  guineas  must  be  had.  I 
have  written  a  conciliating  letter  to  my  father,  but 
I  fear  he  is  callous.  If  he  persists  in  retaining  the 
allowance  or  establishment  which  he  has  hitherto  paid 
me,  I  shall  be  somewhat  embarrassed.  I  trust  how- 
ever that  he  will  not  be  so  unreasonable.  If  Lord 
Mountstuart  would  but  get  me  an  independency  from 
the  King,  while  my  father  lives,  I  should  be  a  fine 
fellow. 

Do  you  know,  it  requires  more  than  ordinary  spirit 


PRACTICE    IN    THE    COURT    OP    SESSION.  199 

to  do  what  I  am  to  do  this  very  morning :  I  am  to 
go  to  the  General  Assembly  and  arraign  a  judgment 
pronounced  last  year  by  Dr.  Robertson,  John  Home, 
and  a  good  many  more  of  them,  and  they  are  to 
appear  on  the  other  side.  To  speak  well,  when  I 
despise  both  the  cause  and  the  Judges,  is  difficult ; 
but  I  believe  I  shall  do  wonderfully.  I  look  forward 
with  aversion  to  the  little,  dull  labours  of  the  Court 
of  Session.  You  see,  Temple,  I  have  my  troubles  as 
well  as  you  have.  My  promise  under  the  venerable 
yew  has  kept  me  sober.  You  shall  hear  from  me 
often.  What  would  I  give  to  have  you  here  today, 
that  I  might  be  cheered  by  your  company  after  my 
day's  drudgery  !  My  best  compliments  to  Mrs.  Temple, 
and  kind  wishes  to  the  young  ones.  Pray  let  me  be 
respectfully  remembered  to  Lord  and  Lady  L.  I  never 
received  Lord  L.'s  letter. 

Ever  most  faithfully  yours, 

J.  B. 


There  is  a  strange  notion  expressed  in  the  following 
letter  by  the  writer,  that  he  had  earned  the  hospita- 
lity General  Paoli  extended  to  him,  and  which  he  so 
excessively  enjoyed. 

56.]  Edinburgh,  &th  June,  1775. 

My  dear  Temple, 

Believe  me,  your  excellent  letter  of  the  27th  of  May, 
which  I  received  last  night,  after  my  coming  home  fa- 
tigued, after  seeing  a  review,  was  exceedingly  refresh- 


200  LETTERS    OF   BOSWELL. 

ing  to  ine ;  nay,  it  elevated  my  mind  higher  than  I 
can  well  express  to  so  intimate  a  friend ;  for  it  is  most 
certain  that  all  expressions  of  compliment  or  kindness 
between  such  friends  as  we  are  ought  to  be  superflu- 
ous. General  Paoli  told  me  lately  that  his  brother 
was  ill ;  he  consulted  physicians  in  London,  and  in- 
formed him  of  what  they  said ;  but  he  never  once  put 
in  words  that  he  was  sorry  or  affectionately  concerned, 
for  he  thought  that  would  be  quite  unnecessary :  he 
was  so  obliging  as  to  apply  this  remark  to  me ;  "I  need 
not  tell  you,"  said  he,  "  that  everything  in  my  power 
is  at  your  disposal."  For  the  last  fortnight  that  I  was 
in  London,  since  I  saw  you,  I  lay  at  his  house,  and 
had  the  command  of  his  coach.  My  lodgings  in  Ger- 
rard  Street  were  taken  by  a  gentleman  for  a  longer 
time  than  I  could  stay ;  so  it  was  obliging  my  landlord 
to  quit  them,  and  all  cards  and  messages  of  every  kind 
were  taken  in  there  for  me.  I  felt  more  dignity  when 
I  had  several  servants  at  my  devotion,  a  large  apart- 
ment, and  the  convenience  and  state  of  a  coach ;  I  re- 
collected that  this  dignity  in  London  was  honourably 
acquired  by  my  travels  abroad,  and  my  pen  after  I 
came  home,  so  I  could  enjoy  it  with  my  own  appro- 
bation ;  and  in  the  extent  and  multiplicity  of  the  Me- 
tropolis, other  people  had  not  even  the  materials  for 
finding  fault,  as  my  situation  was  not  particularly 
known. 

Thus  far  I  have  written,  when  my  clerk  warns  me 
I  shall  be  late  for  the  post.  Let  me  then  only  tell  you 
that  I  wrote  to  Mason  a  week  ago;  and  that  I  am 


DIGNITY    IN    LONDON.  201 

happier  than  you  can  imagine  at  the  prospect  of  your 
letters  addressed  to  me;*  it  is  a  charming  thought. 
Wyvill  is  here :  I  dined  at  his  father's  today ;  his  wife 
is  very  homely  indeed;  he  and  Sir  Alexander  Dick, 
who  was  there,  begged  that  I  would  send  you  their 
best  compliments.  Wyvill  bid  me  tell  you,  he  was 
sorry  he  could  give  you  no  aid  on  Church  history,  as 
he  has  not  studied  it.  Adieu,  my  dearest  friend  ! 

Ever  yours, 

J.  B. 
Best  compliments  to  Mrs.  Temple. 


57.]  Edinburgh,  19 tk  June,  1775. 

My  dear  Temple, 

This  summer  I  hope  shall  be  much  more  fertile  than 
usual  in  letters  between  you  and  me.  Our  late  com- 
fortable week  at  Mamhead  has  had  the  best  effect  on 
my  mind :  when  harassed  and  fretted  with  Court  of 
Sessions  business,  when  vexed  to  think  myself  a  coarse 
labourer  in  an  obscure  corner,  I  get  into  good  humour 
again  by  recollecting  that  I  am  Temple's  most  inti- 
mate friend;  that  Temple,  who  knows  me  perfectly, 
thinks  of  me  as  I  know  you  do.  No  doubt  the  prac- 
tice of  the  law  here  is  sometimes  irksome  to  me,  but 
it  is  often  a  kind  of  amusement;  I  have  to  consi- 
der and  illustrate  quicquid  agunt  homines ;  I  have  to 
treat  of  characters,  of  the  history  of  families,  of  trade 

*  Keferring  probably  to  their  proposed  publication. 


202  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

and  manufactures,  as  contracts  concerning  them  are 
the  foundations  of  many  lawsuits ;  in  short,  the  variety 
of  subjects  of  which  fragments  pass  through  my  mind, 
as  a  pleader,  engages  my  attention ;  and,  as  upon  most 
occasions,  I  become  warmly  desirous  of  my  client's 
success;  there  is  the  agitation  of  contest,  and  some- 
times, in  a  certain  degree,  the  triumph  of  victory ;  but 
there  is  also  sometimes  the  discouragement  of  defeat. 
Since  I  came  down  I  have  seen  Mr.  David  Hume 
several  times.  I  know  you  love  to  hear  little  anec- 
dotes of  him,  so  I  shall  endeavour  to  cull  as  many  as 
I  can.  I  first  saw  him  one  forenoon  that  I  called 
on  him;  he  had  Macpherson's  History  before  him, 
and  he  said  it  was  the  worst  style  he  had  ever  read, 
and  that  Macpherson  had  written  his  two  volumes  in 
quarto  in  six  weeks ;  he  said  he  himself  did  not  like 
to  continue  the  History  of  England  further  down,  be- 
cause we  have  not  yet  had  access  to  papers  sufficient 
to  let  us  know,  with  authenticity,  the  state  of  affairs ; 
and  it  was  disagreeable  to  write  history  which  after- 
wards might  be  proved  not  to  be  true.  He  spoke 
highly  of  the  'Histoire  Philosophique  et  Politique,' 
and  I  wondered  to  find  him  excuse  very  easily  the  au- 
thor of  that  book,  for  translating  long  passages  from 
English  writers  without  quoting  them,  but  just  ingraft- 
ing the  passages  into  his  text ;  he  said  there  are  about 
fifteen  pages  translated  from  his  History,  but  he  com- 
plained of  one  mistake.  He  has  mentioned  that  the 
clergy  carried  their  claim  of  tithes  to  so  strange  an 
excess  that  they  insisted  to  have  a  tenth  of  the  gain  of 

«/  ,  O 


ANECDOTES    OF    HUME.  203 

courtesans  ;  the  Frenchman,  mistaking  courtesans  for 
courtisans  (courtiers)  in  his  own  language,  makes  the 
tenth  to  be  of  the  gains  de  ceux  gui  avaient  des  em- 
plois  a  la  Cour.  This,  said  David  very  justly,  takes  the 
salt  from  the  observation.  He  says  Abbe  Raynal  can- 
not have  written  that  book  himself;  the  eloquence 
must  have  been  borrowed ;  he  is,  said  he,  a  dull  man 
in  conversation  ;  that  however  is  not  a  certain  rule  for 
judging  that  a  man  cannot  write  well;  but  he  has 
written  ill ;  his  *  Histoire  du  Parlement  d'Angleterre ' 
is  very  ill  written.  He  says,  when  he  was  at  Paris, 
Abbe  Raynal  was  making  collections  for  a  work  on 
America,  and  he  supposed  the  materials  have  been 
supplied  by  him. 

On  Wednesday  last  I  dined  at  Sir  Alexander  Dick's, 
where  we  had  the  Wyvill  family,  a  M.  de  Septchenes, 
a  very  young  Parisian,  introduced  to  me  in  London  by 
Mr.  Burke,  and  who  brought  letters  to  me  and  some 
others  here  from  Sir  John  Pringle,  and  was  also  re- 
commended by  M.  Buffon.  Mr.  Hume  was  there  too.. 
Wyvill  was  glad  to  meet  with  him,  as  he  had  never 
seen  him  before.  He  said  Mr.  Pitt  was  an  instance 
that  in  this  country  eloquence  alone,  without  any  other 
talents  or  fortune,  will  raise  a  man  to  the  highest 
office.  On  Thursday  I  supped  at  Mr.  Hume's,  where 
we  had  the  young  Parisian,  Lord  Kames,  and  Dr.  Ro- 
bertson, an  elegant  supper,  three  sorts  of  ice-creams. 
What  think  you  of  the  northern  Epicurus  style  ?  I  can 
recollect  no  conversation.  Our  writers  here  are  really 
not  prompt  on  all  occasions,  as  those  of  London. 


204  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

On  Saturday,  the  Parisian  and  Mr.  Hume  and  some 
gentlemen  supped  with  me, — no  fruit  that  night  either. 
But  the  word  fruit  makes  me  recollect  that  Hume 
said  Burke's  speech  on  Reconciliation  with  the  Co- 
lonies, which  I  lent  to  him,  had  a  great  deal  of  flower, 
a  great  deal  of  leaf,  and  a  little  fruit. 

Yesterday  I  met  Mr.  Hume  at  Lord  Kames',  in  the 
forenoon.  He  said  it  was  all  over  in  America :  we 
could  not  subdue  the  colonists,  and  another  gun  should 
not  be  fired,  were  it  not  for  decency's  sake;  he  meant, 
in  order  to  keep  up  an  appearance  of  power.  But  I 
think  the  lives  of  our  fellow-subjects  should  not  be 
thrown  away  for  such  decency.  He  said  we  may  do 
very  well  without  America,  and  he  was  for  withdraw- 
ing our  troops  altogether  and  letting  the  Canadians 
fall  upon  our  colonists.  I  do  not  think  he  makes  our 
right  to  tax  at  all  clear.  He  says  there  will  in  all  pro- 
bability be  a  change  of  the  Ministry  soon,  which  he 
regrets.  Oh,  Temple,  while  they  change  so  often,  how 
does  one  feel  an  ambition  to  have  a  share  in  the  great 
department !  but  I  fear  my  wish  to  be  a  man  of  con- 
sequence in  the  State  is  much  like  some  of  your  ambi- 
tious sallies. 

Mr.  Hume  and  Lord  Kames  joined  in  attacking 
Dr.  Johnson  to  an  absurd  pitch.  Mr.  Hume  said  he 
would  give  me  half-a-crown  for  every  page  of  his  Dic- 
tionary in  which  he  could  not  find  an  absurdity,  if  I 
would  give  him  half-a-crown  for  every  page  in  which 
he  did  not  find  one  :  he  talked  so  insolently,  really,  that 
T  calmly  determined  to  be  at  him ;  so  I  repeated,  by 


CONVERSATION    WITH    HUME.  205 

way  of  telling  that  Dr.  Johnson  could  be  touched,  the 
admirable  passage  in  your  letter,  how  the  Ministry  had 
set  him  to  write  in  a  way  that  they  "  could  not  ask 
even  their  infidel  pensioner  Hume  to  write."5  Upon 
honour,  I  did  not  give  the  least  hint  from  whom  I 
had  the  letter.  When  Hume  asked  if  it  was  from  an 
American,  I  said,  No,  it  was  from  an  English  gentle- 
man. "Would  a  gentleman  write  so?"  said  he.  In 
short,  Davy  was  finely  punished  f  for  his  treatment  of 
my  revered  friend ;  and  he  deserved  it  richly,  both  for 
his  petulance  to  so  great  a  character  and  for  his  talking 
so  before  me  (!). 

I  dined  yesterday  with  Lord  Kames  and  his  Lady 
en  famitte,  and  got  from  my  Lord  a  good  deal  of  his 
life.  He  says  he  will  put  down  particulars  of  himself 
if  I  will  put  them  together  and  publish  them.  I  think 
he  has  eminence  enough  to  merit  this.  This  forenoon 
Mr.  Hume  came  in  awhile  to  my  brother  lawyer  Mr. 
Crosbie's,  where  I  was  sitting.  He  did  not  say  much : 
I  only  remember  his  remark,  that  characters  depend 
more  on  original  formation  than  on  the  way  we  are 
educated ;  "  for,"  said  he,  "  princes  are  educated  uni- 

*  The  passage  of  Temple's  letter  which  Boswell  then  read  to  Dr. 
Johnson  and  Hume,  with  the  object  of  affecting  both  uncomfortably, 
ran  thus  : — "  How  can  your  great,  I  will  not  say  your  pious,  but  your 
-moral  friend,  support  the  barbarous  measures  of  Administration, 
which  they  have  not  the  face  to  ask  even  their  infidel  pensioner 
Hume  to  defend?"  (Life  of  Johnson,  21st  March,  1778.) 

•f  Whether  Temple  could  be  quite  pleased  with  the  turn  of  this 
conversation,  brought  about  by  Boswell's  omciousness,  is  somewhat 
doubtful.  The  "  talking  so  before  me  "  is  thoroughly  Boswellian. 


206  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

formly,  and  yet  how  different  are  they!  how  different 
was  Jaines  the  Second  from  Charles  the  Second !" 

I  am  glad  you  are  going  to  compose  sermons;  I  shall 
ask  Dr.  Johnson  in  my  next  what  is  the  best  Com- 
mentary on  the  Bible.  Among  old  sermons,  he  men- 
tioned Latimer's  and  Sanderson's,  which  I  find  you 
do  not  like,  and  I  forget  what  others. 

I  believe  I  mentioned  to  you  that  I  dined  one  day 
at  old  Mr.  Wyvill's.  He  and  his  daughter,  and  our 
friend  and  his  wife,  and  Sir  Alexander  and  Miss  Dick 
dined  with  us  here ;  and  last  night  Dr.  "Wy vill  came 
and  sat  with  me  a  long  while,  and  we  had  a  very  solid, 
good  tete-a-tete ;  he  asked  me  kindly  to  his  Seat.  He 
is  gone  today. 

I  enclose  you  a  copy  of  my  letter  to  Mason,  toge- 
ther with  his  answer,  which  I  received  this  afternoon. 
I  certainly  wrote  to  him  with  sufficient  civility ;  yet 
his  answer  is,  I  think,  very  dry  and  ill-humoured. 
Worthy  Grange,  who  was  with  me,  said  he  must  be  a 
surly  child.  Observe  with  what  arrogance  he  talks  of 
his  strictures  on  your  character  of  Gray ;  when  I  pub- 
lished it,  I  did  not  know  that  he  was  preparing  me- 
moirs :  I  fancy  he  is  of  a  sour  temper.  Pray  return 
me  my  copy  and  his  letter,  and  tell  me  if  I  should 
write  to  him  again.  I  shall  ask  from  Lord  Hailes  a 
sheet  of  his  Annals  to  send  you.  Still  I  have  not  begun 
to  read ;  but  my  resolution  is  lively,  and  I  trust  I  shall 
have  it  in  my  power  soon  to  give  you  an  account  of 
my  studies  :  all  that  I  can  say  for  myself  at  present  is, 
that  I  attend,  along  with  John  Swinton  and  others,  a 


PARENTAL    DISCOMFORTS.  207 

course  of  lectures  and  experiments  by  Dr.  Black,  Pro- 
fessor of  Chemistry, — a  study  which  Dr.  Johnson  re- 
commends much. 

My  father  is  most  unhappily  dissatisfied  with  me. 
My  wife  and  I  dined  with  him  on  Saturday ;  he  did 
not  salute  her,  though  he  had  not  seen  her  for  three 
months ;  nor  did  he  so  much  as  ask  her  how  she  did, 
though  she  is  advanced  in  pregnancy.  I  understand  he 
fancies  that  if  I  had  married  another  woman  I  might 
not  only  have  had  a  better  portion  with  her,  but  might 
have  been  kept  from  what  he  thinks  idle  and  extrava- 
gant conduct.  He  harps  on  my  going  over  Scotland 
with  a  brute*  (think,  how  shockingly  erroneous !),  and 
wandering  (or  some  such  phrase)  to  London.  In  vain 
do  I  defend  myself:  even  the  circumstance  that  my 
last  jaunt  to  London  did  not  cost  me  £20 — as  I  got 
forty-two  guineas  in  London — does  not  affect  him. 
How  hard  is  it  that  I  am  totally  excluded  from  pa- 
rental comfort !  I  have  a  mind  to  go  to  Auchinleck 
next  autumn,  and  try  what  living  in  a  mixed  stupidity 
of  attention  to  common  objects,  and  restraint  from  ex- 
pressing any  of  my  own  feelings,  can  do  with  him.  I 
always  dread  his  making  some  bad  settlement.  My 
wife  joins  me  in  best  compliments  to  you  and  Mrs. 
Temple.  My  love  to  the  children.  Go  on  with  your 
Green-book  scheme ;  I  delight  in  the  prospect. 

Ever  yours, 

J.  B. 

*  Referring  to  Dr.  Johnson,  the  "  anlil  Dominie." 


208 


CHAPTER  IX. 

1775. 

HYPOCHONDRIA.  —  PROPOSED  PUBLICATION  OF  MR.  TEMPLE'S 

LETTERS  TO  BOSWELL. LORD  HAILES'  ANNALS  OF  SCOTLAND. 

LORD  LISBURNE. — CAPABILITY  BROWN. — EDMUND  BURKE. — 
BOSWELL'S  PEDIGREE. — ALLOWANCE  BY  HIS  FATHER. — AME- 
RICAN WAR. CONJUGAL  SOCIETY. — BOSWELL'S  ESTIMATION 

OF  HIMSELF. — HIS   FATHER'S  VIEWS. — DIVARICATION   OF  THE 

TWO. — FAMILY  SETTLEMENTS. — BIRTH  OF  A  SON. — DUNDAS. 

DR.  JOHNSON  ON  THE  CONTINENT. — SPECULATION  ON  HAPPI- 
NESS. 

IN  several  passages  of  the  letters  in  this  Chapter, 
we  see  that  Mr.  Temple  had  it  in  contemplation  to 
prepare  for  the  press  the  letters,  or  part  of  them, 
which  he  had  addressed  to  Boswell  during  this  cor- 
respondence. The  intention  of  publishing  them  as 
"  Letters  to  James  Boswell,"  seems  to  have  been  sub- 
sequently abandoned. 

The  disgust  which  poor  Boswell  experienced,  and 
in  his  letters  frequently  expresses,  on  account  of  the 
appreciation  which  Lord  Auchinleck  both  felt  and 
exhibited  for  his  son, — so  ludicrously  different  to  that 
of  the  son  himself,  and  "  a  wonderful  number  of  man- 
kind" besides, — is  again  reiterated. 


HYPOCHONDRIACAL    ATTACK.  209 

58.]  Edinburgh,  \Wi  August,  1775. 

My'  dearest  Friend, 

Again  there  has  been  a  sad  interval  in  our  corre- 
spondence, but  do  not  blame  me.  I  have  had  a  pretty 
severe  return  this  summer  of  that  melancholy,  or  hy- 
pochondria, which  is  inherent  in  my  constitution,  and 
from  which  I  have  suffered  miserably  in  former  years, 
though  since  my  marriage  I  have  been  wonderfully 
free  from  it.  Your  languor  and  discontent  are  occa- 
sioned by  a  gentler  species  of  that  distemper.  You 
have  a  slow  fever, — I,  a  raging  one.  While  gloomy 
and  fretful,  and  grossly  indolent,  I  was  shocked  with 
the  recollection  of  my  good  spirits,  gaiety,  and  activity, 
as  a  man  with  a  headache  is  shocked  by  bright  sun- 
beams. But  I  need  not  describe  my  feelings  to  you. 
The  strange  thing  was  that  I  did  not  write  to  you  a 
few  lines,  merely  as  firing  guns  of  distress.  Nobody 
here  but  my  wife  and  worthy  Johnston  had  the  least 
notion  of  my  being  at  all  uneasy,  for  I  have  been  re- 
markably busy  this  summer.  I  wrote  about  three- 
score law  papers,  and  got  £124  in  fees  during  last 
Sessions  of  two  months.  The  Court  rose  yesterday, 
and  this  day  the  clouds  have  begun  to  recede  from 
niy  mind,  I  cannot  tell  from  what  cause.  My  promise 
under  the  solemn  yew  I  have  observed  wonderfully, 
having  never  infringed  it  till,  the  other  day,  a  very 
jovial  company  of  us  dined  at  a  tavern,  and  I  un- 
warily exceeded  my  bottle  of  old  Hock ;  and  having 
once  broke  over  the  pale,  I  run  wild,  but  I  did  not  get 
drunk.  I  was  however  intoxicated,  and  very  ill  next 

p 


210  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

day.  I  ask  your  forgiveness,  and  I  shall  be  more 
strictly  cautious  for  the  future.  The  drunken  man- 
ners of  this  country  are  very  bad. 

I  am  exceedingly  pleased  with  the  Sketches  which 
you  have  sent  me.*  Your  assuming,  or  rather  appear- 
ing as,  a  character,  to  give  them  a  dramatical  cast,  is 
very  right ;  but  I  would  guard  you  against  loading 
the  character  too  much  with  evil.  I  have  therefore 
suggested  the  omission  of  some  passages  and  the 
softening  of  others.  You  know  it  is  a  trite  remark, 
that  there  is  nothing  more  difficult  for  a  man  than  to 
speak  of  himself;  and  you  will  judge  if  anything  more 
is  necessary  to  introduce  the  letters,  or  rather  to  ac- 
count for  their  being  written,  than  our  long  friend- 
ship, great  distance,  and  the  effects  of  a  literary  cor- 
respondence on  us  both,  which  you  well  describe  when 
you  talk  of  my  being  engaged  in  the  pursuits  of  a  vir- 
tuous ambition.  It  appears  to  me  not  well  to  omit 
the  Scotch  Bar,  at  which  I  ply  much  against  my  will ; 
but  let  it  remain.  Letters  are  now  become  so  common 
that,  like  sermons,  they  do  not  attract  public  curiosity. 
I  would  therefore  have  the  title  of  your  volume  to  be, 
'  Remarks  on  various  Authors,  in  a  series  of  Letters  to 
James  Boswell,  Esq./  or  some  such  arrangement,  so 
as  that  '  Letters'  may  not  stand  in  the  front.  I  have 
no  doubt  of  your  making  a  valuable,  elegant  book. 

Lord  Hailes  very  readily  agreed  to  my  sending  you 
a  specimen  of  his  '  Annals  of  Scotland.'  I  give  you 
a  double  treat,  for  I  enclose  you  a  specimen,  with 
*  Probably  '  Historical  and  Political  Memoirs.' 


IDEA    OF    HAPPINESS.  211 

emendations  by  Dr.  Johnson.  Sir  David  is  to  pub- 
lish first  an  edition  in  quarto,  with  notes,  in  the  form 
of  one  sheet  of  the  specimen  sent.  If  that  edition 
takes,  he  is  then  to  publish  one  in  octavo,  without 
notes,  in  the  form  of  another  sheet  of  the  specimen 
sent.  The  text  of  both  editions  will  be  the  same. 
Above  two  hundred  pages  of  the  quarto  edition  are 
thrown  off.  He  says  he  will  not  sell  his  copy  so  as 
that  the  book  shall  be  too  high  priced.  He  will  give 
us  four  hundred  pages  in  quarto,  such  as  you  see,  for 
fifteen  shillings.  Dr.  Johnson  likes  the  work  ;  it  has 
the  most  minute  authenticity,  and  the  style  is  concise 
and  real.  You  will  return  me  the  specimen,  and  tell 
me  how  you  liked  it  and  Dr.  Johnson's  critical  re- 
marks :  he  has  gone  through  a  great  deal  of  the  work. 
I  told  Lord  Hailes  you  were  Lord  Lisburrie's  clergy- 
man :  he  said  my  Lord  was  his  intimate  friend.  Pray 
talk  to  Lord  L.  of  him,  and  at  the  same  time  pre- 
sent my  best  respects  to  his  Lordship  and  Lady  Lis- 
burne. 

You  are  certainly  right,  that  none  are  so  happy  as 
they  appear  to  be.  You  tell  me  that  Lord  L.,  with 
his  large  estates,  fine  place,  fine  wife,  seat  at  the  Ad- 
miralty Board,  elegant  table,  etc.  etc.,  is  not  happy. 
I  believe  it,  for  I  can  trust  to  your  opinion ;  yet  I  can- 
not think  but  he  has  excellent  portions  of  existence, 
and  I  imagine  I  should  prefer  his  worst  hours  to  the 
best  of  a  Scotch  lawyer  or  a  country  Laird.  What 
say  you  to  Lord  Clifford's  happiness,  with  his  noble 
park  ?  But,  by  the  bye,  Sir  Joshua  Reynolds  told  me 

p  2 


212  LETTERS    OF    BOS  WELL. 

that  Capability  Brown's  compliment,  of  nature  being 
lewd,  is  what  he  pays  upon  many  occasions.  What  say 
you  to  Lord  Clifford's  family  pride,  his  vivacity,  the 
varieties  which  move  his  mind  from  being  a  Koman 
Catholic?  I  recollect  that  even  in  the  midst  of  all 
that  surrounded  us  at  Ugbrook,  even  in  the  midst  of 
the  merriment  about  Wilkes  and  Tuberville  Needham, 
("  Honest  Tub,")  a  cloudiness  damped  my  mind ;  but 
I  had  been  exhausted  by  riding  all  the  forenoon,  and 
expatiating  upon  rural  beauties  which  I  did  not  much 
feel.*  But  it  is  absurd  to  hope  for  continual  happi- 
ness in  this  life  ;  few  men,  if  any,  enjoy  it.  I  have  a 
kind  of  belief  that  Edmund  Burke  does :  he  has  so 
much  knowledge,  so  much  animation,  and  the  con- 
sciousness of  so  much  fame.  I  am  now  writing  on 
Monday  the  14th.  The  post  has  brought  me  a  letter 
from  the  Lord  Mayor  Wilkes.  I  wrote  to  him,  begging 
him  that  he  would  authenticate  a  pedigree  of  our  fa- 
mily for  my  brother  David.  He  writes,  "  The  pedigree 

*  There  are  frequent  repetitions  of  this  sentiment ;  and  we  may 
accept  his  own  evidence  to  show  that  Boswell  was  not  impressed 
with  the  beauties  or  picturesque  of  landscape.  Dr.  Johnson's 
feelings  on  the  same  subject  confirmed  his  views,  as  one  reads 
in  the  '  Life  of  Johnson'  thus :  "  We  walked  in  the  evening  in 
Greenwich  Park :  he  asked  me,  I  suppose  by  way  of  trying  my 
disposition,  '  Is  not  this  very  fine  ?'  Having  no  exquisite  relish  of 
the  beauties  of  nature,  and  being  more  delighted  with  the  '  busy 
hum  of  men,'  I  answered,  '  Yes,  Sir,  but  not  equal  to  Meet  Street.' 
Johnson  :  '  You  are  right,  Sir.'  "  (July  30th,  1763.)  Again,  "As 
we  walked  to  St.  Clement's  Church,  I  again  remarked,  that  Fleet 
Street  was  the  most  cheerful  scene  in  the  world.  '  Meet  Street,' 
said  he,  'is  in  my  mind  more  delightful  than  Tempe.'"  (April  17th, 
1778.) 


LORD    MAYOR    WILKES.  213 

was  authenticated  with  all  due  solemnity,  and  in  a  more 
beautiful  manner  than  has  been  done  before  at  the 
Lord  Mayor's  office,  that  the  name  of  Boswell  may 
be  considered  in  as  fair  a  light  in  Spain  as  it  is  in 
Scotland  and  England."  He  says,  "  I  expect  in  half  an 
hour  a  score  of  worthy  liverymen,  friends  of  Wilkes 
and  liberty,  whom  so  liberal  a  Scot  as  you  would  re- 
joice to  hear  and  make  libations  with."  My  company 
are  just  arrived.  Mr.  Boswell  in  a  bumper — huzza ! 
huzza !  huzza ! 

Tell  me,  my  dear  Temple,  if  a  man  who  receives  so 
many  marks  of  more  than  ordinary  consideration  can 
be  satisfied  to  drudge  in  an  obscure  corner,  where  the 
manners  of  the  people  are  disagreeable  to  him  ?  You 
see  how  soon  I  revive  again.  Could  I  but  persuade  my 
father  to  give  me  £400  a  year,  and  let  me  go  to  the 
English  Bar,  I  think  I  should  be  much  better.  That 
however  seems  to  be  impossible.  As  he  is  bound  for 
£1000  which  I  owe,  he  has  resolved  to  lessen  his  al- 
lowance to  me  of  £300  to  £200.  I  must  not  dispute 
with  him,  but  he  is  really  a  strange  man.  He  is  gone 
to  Auchinleck.  I  intend  to  pass  a  little  while  with  him 
there  soon,  and  sound  him,  or  rather  see  just  what 
attention  can  produce. 

Nothing  have  I  read  yet  except  three  small  trea- 
tises on  Midwifery,  as  1  was  engaged  in  a  cause  con- 
cerning the  duration  of  pregnancy.  I  last  year  began 
Robertson's  '  Charles  V. ;'  I  shall  finish  it  in  the  first 
place.  I  forgot  that  I  have  read  half  through  a  trans- 
lation of  the  '  Lusiad'  of  Camoens  by  Mr.  Mickle,  a 


214  LETTERS    OF    RQSWELL. 

•  Scotsman,  who  resides  near  Oxford,  and  I  shall  have 
done  with  it  in  a  day  or  two;  it  will  be  published 
early  next  winter.  It  seems  to  be  a  work  of  capital 
merit ;  he  has  translated  it  well,  and  enriched  it  with 
many  good  notes. 

Your  cider  is  arrived,  and  is  excellent ;  I  am  much 
obliged  to  you  for  it.  I  am  to  give  worthy  Johnston 
a  dozen  of  it. 

While  afflicted  with  melancholy,  all  the  doubts  which 
have  ever  disturbed  thinking  men  come  upon  me.  I 
awake  in  the  night  dreading  annihilation,  or  being 
thrown  into  some  horrible  state  of  being.  We  must 
own,  my  friend,  that  moral  and  religious  truths  are  not 
such  as  that  we  can  contemplate  them  by  reason  with 
a  constant  certainty.  The  disposition  of  our  tempers, 
of  our  spirits,  influences  our  persuasion,  though  we 
know  that  we  may  help  it  in  part.  The  other  night, 
while  I  was  gloomy,  I  felt  a  strong  impression  or 
recollection  of  the  phrase  in  Scripture,  "  Seek  ye  the 
Lord  while  he  may  be  found."  My  wife  is  an  admi- 
rable companion  for  a  man  of  my  atrabilious  tempera- 
ment, for  she  has  a  good  store  of  common  sense  and 
cheerfulness.  She  and  my  little  daughters  are  very 
well ;  but  you  cannot  imagine  what  apprehensions  I 
have  at  times  lest  I  should  lose  them,  or  they  me,  by 
death. 

I  am  growing  more  and  more  an  American.  I  see 
the  unreasonableness  of  taxing  them  without  the  con- 
sent of  their  Assemblies ;  I  think  our  Ministry  are 
mad  in  undertaking  this  desperate  war.  Let  us  write 


PATERNAL    ESTIMATION.  215 

oftener ;  your  correspondence  is  a  great  comfort  to  me. 
My  sincerest  compliments  to  Mrs.  Temple  and  love  to 
the  children. 

Ever  most  affectionately  yours, 

J.  B. 


59.]  Anchinleck,  2nd  September,  1775. 

My  dear  Temple, 

Here  I  am,  according  to  my  purpose.  I  came  to 
Auchinleck  on  Monday  last,  and  I  have  patiently  lived 
at  it  till  Saturday  evening.  Tomorrow  I  shall  go  to 
the  Parish  Kirk  and  hear  Mr.  John  Dur  preach.  On 
Monday  I  go  in  my  father's  coach  to  Glasgow,  and 
on  Tuesday  he  goes  west  on  his  Circuit,  and  I  go  east 
to  my  home  at  Edinburgh,  to  my  valuable  spouse  and 
my  dear  little  children.  Intervals  of  absence  make 
conjugal  society  more  agreeable,  especially  when  the 
time  of  absence  has  not  been  very  happily  spent.  You 
may  remember  how  I  described  to  Lord  Lisburne  the 
causes  of  my  aversion  to  the  country :  it  is  hardly 
credible  how  difficult  it  is  for  a  man  of  my  sensibi- 
lity to  support  existence  in  the  family  where  I  now 
am.  My  father,  whom  I  really  both  respect  and  affec- 
tionate (if  that  is  a  word,  for  it  is  a  different  feeling 
from  that  which  is  expressed  by  love,  which  I  can  say 
of  you  from  my  soul),  is  so  different  from  me.  We 
divaricate  so  much,  as  Dr.  Johnson  said,  that  I  am 
often  hurt  when,  I  dare  say,  he  means  no  harm  ;  and  he 
has  a  method  of  treating  me  which  makes  me  feel  my- 
self like  a  timid  boy,  which  to  Boswell  (comprehending 


216  LETTERS    OF    BOS  WELL. 

all  that  my  character  does  in  my  own  imagination  and 
in  that  of  a  wonderful  number  of  mankind)  is  intole- 
rable. His  wife  too,  whom  in  my  conscience  I  cannot 
condemn  for  any  capital  bad  quality,  is  so  narrow- 
minded,  and,  I  don't  know  how,  so  set  upon  keeping 
him  under  her  own  management,  and  so  suspicious 
and  so  sourishly  tempered,  that  it  requires  the  utmost 
exertion  of  practical  philosophy  to  keep  myself  quiet. 
I  however  have  done  so  all  this  week  to  admiration : 
nay,  I  have  appeared  good-humoured  ;  but  it  has  cost 
me  drinking  a  considerable  quantity  of  strong  beer 
to  dull  my  faculties.  The  place  is  greatly  improved ; 
it  is  really  princely.  I  perceive  some  dawnings  of 
taste  for  the  country.  I  have  sauntered  about  with 
my  father,  and  he  has  seen  that  I  am  pleased  with 
his  works.  But  what  a  discouraging  reflection  is  it 
that  he  has  in  his  possession  a  renunciation  of  my 
birthright,  which  I  madly  granted  to  him,  and  which 
he  has  not  the  generosity  to  restore  now  that  I  am 
doing  beyond  his  utmost  hopes,  and  that  he  may  in- 
commode and  disgrace  me  by  some  strange  settle- 
ments, while  all  this  time  not  a  shilling  is  secured  to 
my  wife  and  children  in  case  of  my  death !  You  know, 
my  best  friend,  that  as  an  old  Laird  of  this  family  gave 
the  estate  to  the  heir  male,  though  he  had  four  daugh- 
ters, I  hold  it  as  a  sacred  point  of  honour  not  to  alter 
that  line  of  succession.  Dr.  Johnson  praises  me  for 
my  firmness,  and  my  own  mind  is  immovable.  There 
is  a  kind  of  heroism  in  it,  but  I  have  severe  paroxysms 
of  anxiety ;  and  how  unhappy  is  it  for  a  man  to  have 


A    FAMILY    LETTER.  217 

no  security  for  what  is  dear  to  him  but  his  father's 
death !  Do  not  reason  against  me ;  try  to  comfort 
me.  My  father  is  visibly  failing :  perhaps  I  may  get 
him  yet  to  do  as  I  wish.  In  the  meantime  I  have 
written  plainly  to  my  brother  David,  to  see  if  he  will 
settle  on  my  wife  and  daughters,  in  case  of  his  suc- 
ceeding. I  shall  now  know  whether  trade  has  de- 
stroyed his  liberal  spirit.  This  is  quite  a  family  letter, 
written  in  the  utmost  confidence.  Perhaps  all  may 
happen  well.  May  God  preserve  you  to  me,  my  dearest 

friend ! 

Ever  yours, 

J.  B. 


60.]  Edinburgh,  IQtk  October,  1775. 

My  dear  Temple, 

I  am  really  uneasy  that  I  have  been  so  long  of  hear- 
ing from  you.  I  wrote  to  you  in  August,  I  think, 
from  this  place,  and  in  September  from  Auchinleck ; 
but,  instead  of  complaining  of  your  silence,  I  feel  a 
kind  of  exultation  in  thus  being  superior  to  you  in 
the  duties  of  friendship.  However,  to  put  an  end  to 
uninteresting  reflections,  let  me  inform  you  that  last 
night  my  wife  was  safely  delivered  of  a  son.  You  know, 
my  dearest  friend,  of  what  importance  this  is  to  me ; 
of  what  importance  it  is  to  the  family  of  Auchinleck, 
which  you  may  be  well  convinced  is  my  supreme  ob- 
ject in  this  world.  My  wife  was  very  ill  in  her  labour, 
but  is  in  a  good  way,  and  the  child  appears  to  be  as 
well  as  we  could  wish.  My  kind  compliments  to  Mrs. 


218  LETTERS    OF    BOS  WELL. 

Temple.  I  am  hurried,  and  cannot  expatiate  on  this 
happy  event ;  I  hope  you  will  find  time  to  do  it  with 
your  elegant  pen,  thou  characterizer  of  Gray ! 

Pray  present  my  respects  to  Lord  and  Lady  Lis- 
burne  and  Lord  and  Lady  Clifford,  and  make  them 
understand  how  happy  I  am. 

Ever  yours, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


61.]  Edinburgh,  l&th  October,  1775. 

My  dearest  Friend, 

By  the  very  return  of  the  post  I  can  make  you  easy 
with  respect  to  an  apprehension  which  your  anxiety 
about  me  has  made  you  form,  with  probability  enough 
too,  and  which  has  been  magnified  and  darkened  in 
the  cloudy  musings  of  dismal  dreaming.  Upon  my 
honour,  I  did  not  write  the  attack  in  the  newspapers 
upon  Dundas  and  Cochrane ;  nor  do  I  know  who 
wrote  it  or  who  sent  it ;  in  short,  I  know  nothing  at 
all  of  it.  I  confess  I  did  intend  to  have  written 
against  them,  for  daring  to  assume  most  illegal  powers ; 
but  I  considered  better,  and  let  it  alone  :  you  are  right 
in  suggesting  that  it  would  be  attributed  to  envy. 
Were  it  not  that  I  feel  myself  in  right,  and,  in  my  views 
at  least,  near  the  present  Lord  Advocate,  I  should  cer- 
tainly trim  him  for  his  insolence,  though,  to  speak 
with  candour,  I  rather  believe  that  he  is,  upon  the 
whole,  a  man  of  abilities  and  a  man  of  worth. 

I  imagine  that  this  very  day  my  letter  of  the  1  Oth, 


BIRTH    OF    AN    HEIR.  219 

informing  you  of  the  birth  of  my  son,  has  reached  you ; 
upon  more  accurate  computation  of  the  course  of  the 
post,  it  would  be  yesterday.  I  figure  the  joy  with 
which  you  and  Mrs.  Temple  would  receive  the  news ; 
it  is,  you  know,  of  very  great  importance  to  me  to  have 
a  son,  considering  how  firmly  rooted  my  old  feudal 
principles  are ;  and  I  imagine  my  wife,  having  brought 
an  heir  male,  will  make  her  be  more  regarded  by  my 
father. 

For  fear  of  being  too  late  for  the  post,  I  conclude  for 
this  night,  but  shall  very  soon  write  to  you  again.  I 
am  much  pleased  with  your  visit  at  Mount  Edgecumbe, 
but  let  me  know  your  faults ;  I  will  endeavour  to  un- 
derstand them.  I  will  force  a  taste  for  rural  beauties. 
I  know  Mr.  Jerningham's  pleasing  poetry ;  I  saw  him 
one  day  in  the  street,  in  London,  with  Langdon.  Did 
Lord  Lisburne  introduce  you  at  Mount  Edgecumbe, 
or  how  did  you  go  ?  You  see  how  highly  I  think  of 
being  there  ;  General  Paoli  is  to  take  me  thither.  My 
wife  and  children  are  well.  Best  compliments  to  Mrs. 
Temple,  and  love  to  the  young  ones. 

Ever  most  warmly  yours, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


In  the  following  letter  Boswell  remarks,  that  "Dr. 
Johnson  has  said  nothing  to  me  of  my  remarks  during 
my  journey  with  him,  which  I  wish  to  write."  Dr. 
Johnson  however,  we  know,  had  an  opinion  upon  Bos- 
well  in  the  capacity  of  travelling  reporter ;  for  he  writes 


220  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

to  Mrs.  Thrale,  asking  her  how  Boswell's  Journal  had 
entertained  her ;  "  One  would  think,"  says  he,  "  the 
man  had  been  hired  to  be  a  spy  upon  me ;  he  was 
very  diligent,  and  caught  opportunities  of  writing  from 
time  to  time."  Still,  as  before  observed,  the  Doctor 
was  not  willing  to  have  Boswell's  amusing  remarks 
published,  especially  as  they  were  open  to,  and  indeed 
when  published  incurred,  no  little  ridicule.  Dr.  John- 
son had  travelled  over  the  same  ground  in  his  own 
work,  which  must  nevertheless  be  pronounced  far  less 
interesting  than  that  of  his  companion. 

62.]  Edinburgh,  Qtk  November,  1775. 

My  dear  Temple, 

This  is  to  be  only  a  letter  of  congratulation  on  the 
very  good  news  which  you  have  announced  to  me. 
The  best  living  in  the  Diocese  of  Exeter,  and  the  pre- 
sent incumbent  eighty-six !  with  such  a  prospect,  can 
you  be  dispirited  ?  If  you  attain  to  such  a  reality,  will 
you  have  the  assurance  to  complain  any  more?  I 
most  heartily  rejoice  at  this  great  good  fortune.  Your 
removal  to  Ireland  had  something  dreary  in  it;  Old 
England  is  your  clime,  and  Devonshire  has  chiefly  the 
sun  and  summer  gale.  We  shall  meet  once  a  year  ;  we 
shall  be  often  in  London  together.  We  may  visit  some 
part  of  the  Continent,  which,  by  the  bye,  Dr.  Johnson 
has  done  lately,  with  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Thrale.  I  long  to 
have  some  account  of  his  peregrination  in  Gaul.  How 
do  you  imagine  he  would  pass  his  time  in  Paris  ?  if 
he  got  fairly  into  conversation  with  some  of  the  French 


TEMPLE'S  LETTERS.  221 

Icaux  esprits,  how  would  he  stun  them  by  one  of  his 
violent  explosions !  I  have  seen  the  preface  to  his 
Dictionary,  translated  by  Diderot,  and  when  Madame 
de  Boufflers  was  in  England,  she  visited  him  in  the 
Temple. 

It  pleases  me  much  that  you  are  making  good  pro- 
gress in  your  Essays, — I  understand  by  that  word  your 
letters  to  me.  I  always  was  sure  that  they  would  do 
you  honour  as  a  man  of  reading  and  taste;  but  I 
must  insist  on  your  putting  your  name  to  them,  and 
leaving  out,  for  some  future  publication,  any  passages 
which  you  do  not  choose  at  present  to  own.  I  shall 
be  impatient  to  receive  some  more  of  your  manuscript. 

My  wife  is  recovered  remarkably  well.  This  son 
has  been  quite  a  cordial  to  her.  He  has  been  a  little 
unlucky.  The  nurse  had  not  milk  enough;  and,  as 
he  is  a  big-boned  fellow,  he  cannot  subsist  without 
plentiful  sustenance.  We  have  got  another  nurse,  a 
strong,  healthy  woman,  with  an  abundant  breast.  His 
mother  is  quite  unfit  for  nursing,  she  is  of  a  temper  so 
exceedingly  anxious. 

I  have  not  yet  seen  Mr.  Hume,  but  shall  call  on 
him  soon,  and  then  you  shall  have  a  letter  from  me 
stored  with  entertainment.  I  cannot  as  yet  say  any- 
thing of  my  studies ;  I  have  read  the  first  volume  of 
Robertson's  '  Charles  V. ; '  when  I  have  finished  the 
book  I  shall  give  you  my  opinion ;  in  the  meantime 
I  am  really  disappointed.  I  have  read  a  beautiful 
little  French  piece,  '  Consultation  sur  la  Discipline  des 
Avocats ;'  it  will  animate  my  essay  on  the  profession 


222  LETTERS    OF    BOSWKLL. 

which  I  follow,  if  I  ever  write  it.  Dr.  Johnson  has 
said  nothing  to  me  of  my  remarks  during  my  journey 
with  him,  which  I  wish  to  write.  Shall  I  task  my- 
self to  write  so  much  of  them  a  week,  and  send  to 
you  for  revisal?  If  I  do  not  publish  them  now,  they 
will  be  good  materials  for  my  ( Life  of  Dr.  Johnson.' 

My  best  compliments  to  Mrs.  Temple  and  love  to 
the  children.  I  was,  upon  honour,  much  pleased  when 
last  at  Mamhead.  What  is  the  reason  that  no  life 
whatever  appears  happy  in  a  descriptive  detail  ?  Even 
your  life  at  Mount  Edgecumbe  would  not  have  ap- 
peared happy  though  you  had  not  added  your  con- 
fession of  weariness.  I  wish  you  would  explain  this 
to  me ;  may  it  be  that  life  is  happy  only  in  masses  ? 
For  to  see  a  man  live,  hour  by  hour,  makes  us  not 
think  him  happy  so  well  as  reading  a  detail  does.  I 
am  afraid  this  is  very  confused  speculation,  but  try 
the  sentiment.  Read  an  account  how  any  happy  fa- 
mily passes  a  day,  and  tell  me  if  you  would  not  wish 
to  live  so.* 

Lord  Lisburne  is  certainly  your  patron  now.  I 
would  wish  to  write  to  him  to  thank  him,  if  you  allow 
me.  I  hope  he  will  introduce  me  to  your  Bishop  in 
the  Spring.  Adieu,  my  dearest  friend ! 

I  am  ever  most  affectionately  yours, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 

*  Unfortunately  Mr.  Temple's  explanation  of  this  propounded 
puzzle,  although  very  necessary,  is  not  presented  to  us. 


223 


CHAPTER  X. 

1776. 

MBS.  RUDD,  HER  TRIAL  AND  TREACHERY. — BOSWELL  SEEKS  HER 
ACQUAINTANCE. — AT  BATH  WITH  DR.  JOHNSON  AND  THE 
THRALES. — THE  YEW-TREE  VOW  NOT  KEPT.  —  HABITS  OP 
DRINKING.  —  MRS.  RUDD  BOSWELL1ZED.  —  PURE  FRIENDSHIP 
FOR  MRS.  STUART. THE  DEVONSHIRE  FAMILY. 

BOSWELL'S  making  the  acquaintance  of  Mrs.  Rudd, 
mentioned  at  the  close  of  the  following  letter,  affords 
another  instance  of  his  dominant  passion  for  knowing 
people  who  had  achieved  notoriety.  It  is  in  reading 
such  letters  that  one  feels  almost  disposed  to  ex- 
claim,— 

"  How  much,  methinks,  I  could  despise  this  man, 
But  that  I  am  bound  in  charity  against  it."* 

"The  celebrated"  wretch  was  sought  out,  and,  no 
doubt,  for  the  time  incessantly  discussed  by  Boswell, 
who  had  successfully  aspired  to  her  acquaintance.  He 
observes,  in  a  memorandum  of  a  conversation  with 
Dr.  Johnson,  "  I  talked  a  good  deal  [to  Johnson]  of 
the  celebrated  Margaret  Caroline  Rudd,  whom  I  had 
visited,  induced  by  the  fame  of  her  talents,  address, 

*  Henry  VIII. ,  Act  iii.  scene  2. 


224  LETTERS    OF   BOS  WELL. 

and  irresistible  power  of  fascination.  To  a  lady  who 
disapproved  of  my  visiting  her  he  said,  on  a  former 
occasion,  '  Nay,  Madam,  Boswell  is  in  the  right ;  I 
should  have  visited  her  myself,  were  it  not  that  they 
have  now  a  trick  of  putting  everything  into  the  news- 
papers.' This  evening  he  exclaimed,  '  I  envy  him  his 
acquaintance  with  Mrs.  Rudd.'" 

Who  Mrs.  Rudd  was  will  be  best  seen  in  the  New- 
gate Calendar.  A  sufficient  account  however  of  the 
trial  of  her  confederates  in  crime  and  of  herself,  and  of 
her  attempt  to  save  herself  by  turning  King's  evi- 
dence against  her  paramour  and  his  twin  brother,  will 
be  found  in  the  'Annual  Register'  for  the  year  1775 
(vol.  xviii.),  under  the  title,  "  Some  Account  of  the  Ap- 
prehending and  Trying  Robert  Perreau  of  Golden 
Square,  Apothecary,  Daniel  Perreau  of  Harley  Street, 
and  Margaret  Caroline  Rudd,  for  divers  Forgeries." 
It  is  not  easy  to  determine  from  this  account  what 
was  the  proportion  of  guilt  attaching  to  each  of  these 
individuals  respectively,  if  indeed  the  brothers  Perreau 
were  guilty  at  all. 

Mrs.  Rudd  used  to  pass  as  Mrs.  Daniel  Perreau ; 
and  although  there  is  considerable  obscurity  as  to  the 
part  which  the  Perreaus  played  in  the  frauds  perpe- 
trated by  forging  and  uttering  bonds  in  the  name  of 
William  Adair,  and  possibly  some  doubt  as  to  the 
criminality  of  both  of  them,  as  principals  at  least,  yet 
in  the  end  the  brothers  were  hanged,  some  months 
after  their  trial,  protesting  their  innocence.  Mrs. 
Rudd  was  acquitted,  and  was,  as  we  are  told,  and 


MRS.    RUDD.  225 

can  readily  understand,  "  confounded  with  joy  at  her 
discharge." 

The  case  is  all  the  more  remarkable  from  the  fact 
that  Robert  Perreau  in  the  first  instance  produced  Mrs. 
Rudd  at  Bow  Street,  as  the  person  who  had  given  him 
a  bond,  which,  when  he  offered  it  as  a  security  to 
Messrs.  Drummond  (the  bankers),  was  discovered  to 
be  a  forgery.  The  magistrate  admitted  her,  with  some- 
what questionable  discretion,  it  would  seem,  to  give 
evidence  for  the  Crown  against  the  Perreaus.  Upon  the 
ground  of  having  thus  been  allowed  to  become  "  King's 
evidence,"  she  claimed  to  be  exempt  from  trial,  and 
applied  to  be  discharged  forthwith  from  custody  on 
bail.  Lord  Mansfield*  however,  having  considered 
her  claim  fully,  refused  the  application.  "It  has 
been  urged,"  said  he,  "  that  the  prisoner  in  this  case 
is  an  accomplice,  who  has  been  admitted  to  give  evi- 
dence ;  that  she  has  already  given  evidence,  and  is 
further  ready  to  give  evidence,  to  convict  her  partners 
in  the  business ;  and  therefore,  that  she  is  entitled 
by  law  to  the  King's  pardon,  and  to  a  pardon  which 
would  operate  in  bar  of  her  own  crime.  If  she  had 
such  a  right,  we  should  be  bound,  ex  debilo  justitice, 
to  quit  her ;  if  she  had  not  such  a  legal  right,  but  yet 
came  under  circumstances  sufficient  to  warrant  the 
Court  in  saying  that  she  had  such  a  title  of  recom- 
mendation to  the  King  for  a  pardon,  we  should  bail 
her,  for  the  purpose  of  giving  her  an  opportunity  of 
applying  for  such  pardon."  After  discussing  the  law 
*  See  Cowper's  Keports,  p.  331. 

Q 


226  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

of  "  approvement,"  the  learned  Judge  thus  proceeds : — 
"  These  being  the  general  rules,  let  us  see  how  far 
the  present  case  is  applicable  to  them,  or  in  any  de- 
gree falls  within  the  reason  of  them.  A  bond  is  de- 
tected to  have  been  forged ;  three  persons  are  appre- 
hended on  suspicion — the  two  Perreaus,  and  the  pri- 
soner (Mrs.  Rudd).  The  Justices,  by  their  affidavit, 
say  they  admitted  the  prisoner  as  an  evidence  against 
the  Perreaus,  and  swear  they  considered  her  as  an 
accomplice  ;  and  they  say  they  told  her  '  that  if  she 
would  speak  the  truth,  and  the  whole  truth,  not  only 
in  respect  of  the  bond  in  question,  but  of  all  the  other 
forgeries,  that  then  she  should  be  safe ;  if  not,  she 
would  be  prosecuted;'  and  the  truth  is,  she  was  liable 
to  be  prosecuted  for  all. 

"  What  is  the  disclosure  she  makes  ?  It  is  this, 
that  Daniel  Perreau  came,  with  a  knife  to  her  throat, 
and  threatened  to  kill  her,  if  she  did  not  forge  one  of 
the  bonds  in  question ;  that,  under  the  terror  of  death, 
she  forged  it ;  and  that  Robert  Perreau  brought  the 
bond  before  ready  filled  up.  On  this  information  she 
is  no  accomplice :  she  has  confessed  no  guilt,  if  the 
fact  is  true  that  she  was  under  the  fear  of  immediate 
death ;  for  it  is  the  will  that  constitutes  the  crime. 
She  comes,  therefore,  in  the  character  of  a  person  in- 
jured, in  the  character  of  one  to  whom  this  violence 
has  been  done.  Instead  of  being  a  party  offending, 
she  is  a  party  offended,  as  much  as  a  man  who  has 
been  robbed  on  the  highway."  Lord  Mansfield  also 
observes  another  most  material  fact,  namely,  "  that  her 


TRIAL    OF    MRS.    RUDD.  227 

information  is  flatly  contradicted  by  herself;  for,  on 
a  voluntary  confession  of  her  own,  she  took  the  whole 
guilt  upon  herself ;  said  that  she  alone  forged  the  bond 
for  £7500,  and  that  Robert  Perreau  was  an  innocent 
man.  If  the  Justices  had  known  of  this  confession, 
they  could  not  have  admitted  her  as  evidence."  The 
confession  here  alluded  to  was  made  at  Messrs.  Drum- 
mond's,  in  the  first  instance ;  for  when  they  doubted 
the  genuineness  of  the  signature  of  the  bond,  purport- 
ing to  be  that  of  Mr.  Adair,  Robert  Perreau  sent  im- 
mediately for  Mrs.  Rudd  to  explain  the  matter,  as  it 
was  she  who  had  handed  the  bond  to  him  originally, 
and  she  thereupon  admitted  her  forgery.  Lord  Mans- 
field resolved  on  the  whole  that  "  her  information  is 
false,  and  the  conditions  not  complied  with,"  and  that 
she  must  take  her  trial  in  due  course. 

The  trial  accordingly  took  place.  We  read  that  it 
"lasted  from  nine  o'clock  in  the  morning  till  three- 
quarters  past  seven.  Mrs.  Rudd  was  neatly  dressed, 
in  second  mourning..  During  her  trial  she  wrote 
near  fifty  notes  to  her  counsel,  and  displayed  a  most 
astonishing  composure."  The  trial  was  a  very  painful 
one.  Mrs.  Robert  Perreau  was  called  as  a  witness  for 
the  prosecution  ;  "  and  the  Counsel,  in  cross-examining 
her,  were  so  extremely  abrupt  that  she  burst  into  tears, 
and  was  near  fainting."  Mrs.  Rudd,  on  the  other 
hand,  exhibited  much  firmness  in  her  defence  :  "  she 
avowed  her  innocence  in  explicit  terms ;  said  that  her 
life  was  to  be  taken  to  save  the  Perreaus ;  and,  turning 
to  the  jury,  added,  '  I  have  no  reliance  but  on  you : 


228  LETTERS    OF    BOS  WELL. 

you  are  honest  men,  and  I  am  safe  in  your  hands.' ' 
A  note  to  Cowper's  Reports  gives  us  the  information 
that  the  jury  brought  in  their  verdict  as  follows  :  "  Npt 
guilty,  according  to  the  evidence  before  us ;"  which 
looks  very  much  as  if  they  thought  that  there  might 
be  some  matters  not  before  them,  as  indeed  was  the 
fact, — her  own  confession  was  not  given  in  evidence. 
The  '  Annual  Register'  adds,  that  "  There  were  the 
loudest  applauses  on  this  acquittal  almost  ever  known 
in  a  Court  of  Justice."  We  are  also  informed  that  the 
avidity  of  the  public  to  hear  her  trial  was  such  that 
the  galleries  were  crowded  "  soon  after  daylight."  The 
fact  is,  that  the  issue  of  Mrs.  Rudd's  trial  was  thought 
to  involve  the  ultimate  fate  of  the  brothers  Perreau, 
or  at  least  that  of  Robert ;  and  the  popular  fancy  had 
taken  the  part  of  the  woman  as  against  the  men.  She 
seems  in  some  manner  to  have  created  great  but  un- 
deserved interest  in  her  fate ;  and  it  was  said,  as  Bos- 
well  states,  that  she  either  had,  or  was  supposed  to  have, 
great  power  of  fascination.  Nay,  that  not  only  did 
she  thus  procure  her  acquittal,  but  that  by  her  means 
the  unfortunate  Perreaus  had  been  snared  into  the 
acts  which  led  to  their  execution.  The  woman  was 
however,  at  the  best,  infamous  enough  to  have  been 
shunned  by  persons  of  ordinary  virtue  or  decency,  as 
we  account  these  qualities  nowadays ;  but  she  was  no- 
torious, and  this  was  enough  to  excite  the  anxiety  of 
Bos  well  to  see  her  and  talk  to  her,  that  he  might  talk 
of  her.  The  remarks  of  the  Doctor  himself,  above  re- 
ferred to,  were  probably  made  in  some  of  his  contra- 


VISITING    MRS.    RUDD.  22& 

dictory  moods,  for  they  hardly  accord  with  the  morality 
which  he  so  sternly  professed  and  practised.     Not- 
withstanding the  contempt  which  we  ought  to  feel  for 
people  who  flocked,  according  to  a  fashionable  whim, 
to  associate  with   a  profligate  woman,   and  one  not 
far,  if  at  all,  removed  from  being  a  murderess,  still,  as 
Boswell  did  go  to  her,  and  doubtless  had  his  usual  ex- 
traordinary success  in  inducing  characteristic  conver- 
sation, we  cannot  help  confessing  to  a  desire  that  the 
account  which  he  wrote,  for  the  perusal  of  his  wife 
and  his  friend's  amusement,  had  been  preserved  to  us 
The  trial  of  the  Perreaus  will  be  found  in  the  Ses- 
sions Papers  of  the  Old  Bailey  (May,  1775),  but  the 
case  was  so  remarkable  that  several  publications  rela- 
ting to  it  issued  from  the  press.    The  title-page  of  one 
is  "  Prudence  triumphing  over  Vanity  and  Dissipation, 
in  the  History  of  the  Life,  Character,  and  Conduct  of 
Mr.  Robert  and  Mr.  Daniel  Perreau  and  Mrs.  Rudd ; 
containing  an  account  of  everything  relating  to  these 
Celebrated   Personages,  their   Parentage,  Education, 
Circumstances  in  Life,  and  the  means  by  which  they 
brought  Ruin,  Infamy,  and  Misery  upon  themselves: 
the  whole  compiled  from  authentic  records,  communi- 
cated to  the  Editor  by  a  person  well  known  in  the 
literary  world."     This  person  "  well  known  in  the  lite- 
rary world"  is  probably  mythical ;  at  all  events,  it  is 
but  fair  to  state  here,  that  the  nature  of  the  work  is 
too  scandalous  and  vulgar  to  admit  of  any  supposition 
that  Mr.  Boswell  could  be  the  person  alluded  to  under 
this  designation. 


230  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

One  of  the  worst  features  in  the  woman's  history  is 
the  cruel  letter  which  she  wrote,  after  her  own  acquit- 
tal and  before  the  execution  of  the  Perreaus,  to  Lord 
Weymouth,  urging  statements  incriminating  her  late 
confederate  Robert  Perreau,  and  endeavouring  thus  to 
cut  him  off  from  even  the  slight  hope  of  a  pardon. 
This  letter,  it  is  said,  was  dictated  by  a  noble  Wor- 
cestershire Lord,  to  whose  house  and  protection  Mrs. 
Rudd  retired  immediately  upon  her  acquittal  at  the 
Old  Bailey.  What  eventually  became  of  her  is  not 
recorded. 

The  visit  to  Bath,  alluded  to  in  the  following  letter, 
was  productive  of  valuable  fruit  for  the  '  Life  of  John- 
son ;'  indeed  Boswell  made  good  use  of  his  opportuni- 
ties, during  the  year  1776,  for  the  purpose  of  his  bio- 
graphy. He  was  also,  it  will  be  observed,  now  prac- 
tising his  reporting  powers  upon  General  Paoli,  in  the 
same  way  as  we  have  lately  seen  him  employing  them 
on  David  Hume  himself.  Paoli  proved  himself  at  all 
times  a  real  friend  to  Boswell,  especially  by  endea- 
vouring to  wean  him  from  his  drinking  habits.  Poor 
Boswell  was  indeed  now  feeling  in  his  constitution  the 
effects  of  his  excesses  during  social  hours,  and  he  be- 
came another  instance  of  the  great  truth  which  our 
poet  tells  us,  when  he  says, — 

"  The  gods  are  just,  and  of  our  pleasant  vices 
Make  instruments  to  scourge  us." 


BOS  WELL    AT    BATH.  231 

B3.]  Bath,  Sunday,  28th  April,  1776. 

My  dear  Temple, 

I  am  now,  for  the  first  time,  at  this  most  elegant 
city,  which  far  exceeds  my  expectations.  I  will  not 
attempt  a  description  of  it ;  I  have  no  pencil  for  vi- 
sible objects ;  I  can  only  paint  the  varieties  of  mind, 
of  r esprit.  You,  who  gave  me  so  good  a  picture  of 
Mount  Edgecumbe,  could  also  describe  Bath ;  and 
what  would  I  give  to  have  you  here !  It  is  the  finest 
place  on  earth  for  you,  for  you  may  enjoy  its  society 
and  its  walks  without  effort  or  fatigue.  I  came  down 
from  London  on  Friday  in  the  stage-chaise,  or  dili- 
gaunce,  as  they  will  call  it,  and  had,  by  chance,  two 
very  agreeable  ladies  as  my  companions.  I  have  year 
after  year  thought  of  visiting  Bath,  and  always  neg- 
lected it,  and  perhaps  I  should  still  have  put  it  off  had 
not  Dr.  Johnson  with  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Thrale  been  here. 
I  lie  at  an  inn,  and  am  with  them  all  day.  Mr.  and 
Mrs.  Thrale  were  so  much  afflicted  with  the  loss  of 
their  only  son  that  they  could  not  think  of  going  to 
Italy,  so  the  project  is  laid  aside  for  this  year,  to  the 
disappointment  of  Dr.  Johnson,  and  many  a  one  who 
wished  to  look  at  Italy  through  his  noble  intellectual 
glass.  I  hope  he  will  go  next  year.  Tomorrow  he 
and  I  are  to  visit  Bristol,  and  be  back  at  night.  I  shall 
stay  one  day  more  here,  and  get  back  to  London  on 
Wednesday.  I  must  eat  Commons  in  the  Inner  Temple 
this  week  and  next,  to  make  out  another  Term,  that  I 
may  still  be  approximating  to  the  English  Bar,  and 
the  week  after  I  must  go  to  Scotland.  My  two  jaunts 


232  LETTERS    OP    BOSWELL. 

this  year  from  London  have  not  left  me  time  to  be 
with  you  at  Mamhead,  which,  upon  my  honour,  I  re- 
gret ;  for  you  may  be  sure  that  it  is  the  truest  happi- 
ness to  me  to  enjoy  the  conversation  of  my  most  inti- 
mate friend,  to  walk  in  serene  gaiety  of  heart  and 
mind  with  you,  and  to  refresh  my  best  dispositions  by 
social  intercourse  with  you.  You  and  I  have  attained 
to  the  perfection  of  friendship :  we  have  no  competi- 
tion or  vanity  mixed  with  our  intercourse.  Since  you 
cannot  come  to  London,  we  must  be  contented  to  wait 
till  next  year  for  another  meeting ;  but  let  us  write 
more  frequently,  I  shall  gladly  give  all  the  assistance 
I  can  in  ushering  your  volumes  into  the  world.  Will 
you  send  them  up  ?  I  should  think  you  had  better 
agree  as  to  one  edition,  and  see  how  they  succeed : 
but  why  not  put  your  name  to  them,  since  you  think 
they  will  do  you  credit,  for  how  can  you  get  credit  for 
what  is  anonymous  ?* 

The  political  disquisitions  were  a  collection  by  a  Mr. 
Burgh,  master  of  an  academy  at  Newington  Green, 
where  I  have  dined  with  him ;  he  was  a  Scotsman,  a 
cousin-german  of  Dr.  Robertson's,  the  historian,  and 
a  discontented  Whig;  he  died  not  long  ago.  This 
collection  is  much  valued  by  your  republican  reformers. 
It  is  quite  adverse  to  my  gentlemanly  system.  I  don't 
know  but  you  have  spoken  too  highly  of  Gibbon's 
book ;  the  Dean  of  Derry,  who  is  of  our  Club  as  well 
as  Gibbon,  talks  of  answering  it.  I  think  it  is  right 

*  As  to  what  was  the  proposed  publication  here  referred  to,  see 
pp.  239,  24 


VOWS    OF    ABSTINENCE.  233 

that  as  fast  as  infidel  wasps  or  venomous  insects, 
whether  creeping  or  flying,  are  hatched,  they  should 
be  crushed.  Murphy  says  he  has  read  thirty  pages 
of  Smith's  '  Wealth,'  but  says  he  shall  read  no  more : 
Smith  too  is  now  of  our  Club.  If  has  lost  its  select 
merit.  He  is  gone  to  Scotland  at  the  request  of  David 
Hume,  who  is  said  to  be  dying.  General  Paoli  had  a 
pretty  remark  when  I  told  him  of  this:  "Ah !  je  suis 
fache  qu'il  soit  detrompe  si  tot."  I  have  collected  a 
good  many  remarkable  '  Memorabilia  Paoli'  this  sea- 
son. My  promise  under  the  solemn  yew  at  Mamhead 
was  not  religiously  kept,  because  a  little  wine  hurried 
me  on  too  much.  The  General  has  taken  my  word  of 
honour  that  I  shall  not  taste  fermented  liquor  for  a 
year,  that  I  may  recover  sobriety :  I  have  kept  this 
promise  now  about  three  weeks ;  I  was  really  growing 
a  drunkard. 

You  know  my  curiosity  and  love  of  adventure ;  I 
have  got  acquainted  with  the  celebrated  Mrs.  Rudd. 
I  was  sending  an  account  of  this  to  my  wife,  but  as  it 
appeared  to  me  highly  entertaining,  I  thought  you 
should  have  a  reading  of  it,  I  therefore  send  it.  Pray 
take  the  greatest  care  of  it,  and  return  it  to  me  by  the 
first  or  second  post.  You  may,  if  you  please,  give  Lord 
Lisburne  a  tasting  of  it — if  that  be  English.  Com- 
pliments to  Mrs.  Temple,  and  love  to  the  children. 
How  hard  is  it  that  we  are  so  very  far  separated  !  I 
flatter  myself  better  days  are  coming.  Ever  yours, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


234  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

64.]  London,  1st  May,  1776. 

I  thought  my  letter  would  go  as  soon,  and  be  safer, 
when  put  into  the  post-office  at  London.  I  was  de- 
lighted with  Bath.  It  was  consolatory  to  see  that 
there  was  really  a  place  in  the  world  to  which  one 
may  retire,  and  be  calm,  placid,  and  cheerful :  such  is 
my  notion  of  Bath,  and  I  believe  it  is  a  general  notion. 
Quin  said  it  was  the  cradle  of  age,  and  a  fine  slope 
to  the  grave.  Were  I  a  Baron  of  the  Exchequer,  and 
you  a  Dean,  how  well  could  we  pass  some  time  there ! 
Luckily  Dr.  Taylor  has  begged  of  Dr.  Johnson  to 
come  to  London,  to  assist  him  in  some  interesting 
business ;  and  Johnson  loves  much  to  be  so  consulted, 
and  so  comes  up  on  Friday  and  Saturday,  and,  I  hope, 
will  stay  till  I  set  out  for  Scotland.  I  am  now  at  Ge- 
neral Paoli's,  quite  easy  and  gay,  after  my  journey; 
not  wearied  in  body,  or  dissipated  in  mind.  I  have 
lodgings  in  Gerrard  Street,  Soho,  where  cards  are  left 
to  me ;  but  I  lie  at  the  General's,  whose  attention  to  me 
is  beautiful.  I  am  going  to  sup  with  Lord  Mount- 
stuart,  my  Maecenas.  You  know  how  I  delight  in 
patronage.  My  intimacy  with  Mrs.  Stuart  is  friend- 
ship, sister  indeed  to  love,  but  such  as  I  can  never 
look  foolish  when  her  husband  comes  in,  who  perfectly 
understands  us,  and  is  happy  that  she  is  agreeably  en- 
tertained when  he  is  at  his  Clubs.  I  will  give  you 
another  late  saying  of  Paoli's  :  "  The  wound,"  said  he, 
"  given  to  the  Devonshire  family  has  occasioned  much 
disturbance ;  the  Court  would  willingly  cover  it  with 


A    SAYING    OF    PAOLl's.  235 

a  ribbon  of  any  colour."  Perhaps  the  adventure  with 
Mrs.  Rudd  is  very  foolish,  notwithstanding  Dr.  John- 
son's approbation :  judge,  then,  if  you  should  mention 
it  to  Lord  L. :  is  he  not  to  be  here  ? 

Direct  to  the  care  of  Messrs.  Dilly.  I  shall  be 
impatient  till  I  get  back  Mrs.  Rudd.  Strahan  and 
Cadell  may  perhaps  be  the  best  treaters  for  such  vo- 
lumes as  you  mention ;  be  assured  of  my  attentive 
exertion  about  them.  My  heart  is  vexed  that  we  do 
not  meet  this  season. 


To  the  "  friendship  "  which  Boswell  above  speaks  of 
he  has  referred  in  his '  Boswelliana'  with  curious  taste ; 
he  narrates  that  "  Lord  Mountstuart  said  it  was  ob- 
served I  was  like  Charles  Fox.  Colonel  J.  Stuart  said, 
with  his  usual  drollery, '  You  are  much  uglier/  I  turned 
to  him,  full  as  sly  and  as  droll,  '  Does  your  wife  think 
so,  Colonel  James  ?' '  But  it  is  added,  that  in  this 
retort  less  was  meant  than  met  the  ear. 


230 


CHAPTER  XL 

1776-1779. 

INTERVAL  IN  THE  CORRESPONDENCE. — TEMPLE'S  CIRCUMSTANCES. 
— DR.  JOHNSON  CONFIRMS  BOSWELL  IN  HIS  TORYISM. — A  YOUNG 
WIDOW. — LOUTH. — SIR  ALEXANDER  DICK'S  BRITISH  GEORGIC. 
— DR.  ARMSTRONG'S  DESCRIPTION  OF  GIBBON. — TEMPLE'S 
BOOK  AND  CHARACTER  CRITICIZED. — LETTER  FROM  A  FRIEND 
TO  TEMPLE. 

THE  next  few  years  were,  happily,  fertile  of  material 
for  the  '  Biography  of  Johnson,'  but  prove  barren  in 
respect  of  letters  belonging  to  the  present  collection. 
We  see  from  the  former  work  that  Boswell,  during  this 
time,  enjoyed  opportunities  of  visiting  London  and 
disporting  himself  in  English  society,  to  his  intense 
delight.  The  date  of  the  next  letter  is  May,  1779. 

65.]  London,  Slst  May,  1779. 

My  dear  Temple, 

Had  you  been  in  London  a  week  ago,  you  would 
have  seen  your  friend  sadly  changed  for  a  little.  So 
trifling  a  matter  as  letting  the  nails  of  my  great  toes 
grow  into  the  flesh,  particularly  in  one  foot,  produced 
so  much  pain  and  inflammation  and  lameness  and 
apprehension,  that  I  was  confined  to  bed,  and  my 


ILLNESS  OF  BOSWELL'S  FATHER.  237 

spirits  sank  to  dreary  dejection ;  however  this  gave 
me  leisure  to  finish  completely  the  reading  of  your 
book.  I  am  now  much  better,  but  still  unable  to 
walk ;  and,  having  received  a  very  wise  letter  from  my 
dear,  sensible,  valuable  wife,  that  although  my  father 
is  in  no  immediate  danger,  his  indisposition  is  such 
that  I  ought  to  be  with  him,  I  have  resolved  to  set  out 
tomorrow,  being  the  very  first  day  after  completing 
another  term  at  the  Temple.  I  am  sitting  comfortably 
at  Mr.  Dilly's.  The  three  letters  which  I  have  had 
the  pleasure  to  receive  from  you,  during  my  present 
visit  to  London,  are  lying  before  me;  I  have  marked 
the  heads,  as  you  advise,  upon  a  slip  of  paper,  and,  I 
trust,  shall  omit  no  article  or  particular  to  which  you 
wish  me  to  attend. 

It  gives  me  much  satisfaction  to  understand  that 
your  circumstances,  as  the  phrase  is,  are  so  good, — 
£6000  fund,  and  only  £1200  debt,  so  you  have 
£4800  clear;  i.  e.,  at  5  per  cent.,  £240  a  year,  which, 
with  your  living,  makes  better  than  £500  a  year. 
Living  in  Cornwall,  you  may  certainly  save  handsomely 
every  year,  so  as  to  increase  your  fortune ;  but  do  not 
delay  turning  your  land  into  money  as  soon  as  you  can. 
You  must  not  on  any  account  waver  as  to  your  north- 
ern jaunt ;  for  it  would  be  sad  indeed,  if  I  were  dis- 
appointed in  meeting  you  this  year,  after  so  long  a 
separation.  You  and  I  and  worthy.  Johnston  will  walk 
in  the  King's  Park,  and  have  all  the  good  ideas  we 
have  ever  possessed  agreeably  revived.  Is  it  not  curi- 
ous that  at  times  we  are  in  so  happy  a  frame  that  not 


23S  LETTERS    OF    BOS  WELL. 

the  least  trace  of  former  misery  or  vexation  is  left  upon 
the  mind  ?  but  is  not  the  contrary,  too,  experienced  ? 
Gracious  Author  of  our  being,  do  thou  bring  us  at 
length  to  steady  felicity  !  What  a  strange,  complicated 
scene  is  this  life  !  It  always  strikes  me  that  we  can- 
not seriously,  closely,  and  clearly  examine  almost  any 
part  of  it.  We  are  at  pains  to  bring  up  children,  just 
to  give  them  an  opportunity  of  struggling  through  cares 
and  fatigues ;  but  let  us  hope  for  gleams  of  joy  here, 
and  a  blaze  hereafter.* 

Let  us  not  dispute  any  more  about  political  notions. 
It  is  now  night.  Dr.  Johnson  has  dined,  drunk  tea, 
and  supped  with  only  Mr.  Charles  Dilly  and  me,  and 
I  am  confirmed  in  my  Toryism ;  what  is  more,  I  am 
happy  in  my  good  old  principles,  could  but  that  sad 
necessary  shock,  the  Revolution,  be  forgotten. 

I  know  not  if  Lord  Hailes's  second  volume  be  yet 
ordered  for  you.  I  shall  deliver  your  book  to  him, 
and  see  to  your  getting  his.  Mr.  Burke  told  me  he 
had  not  received  your  book,  yet  it  was  certainly  de- 
livered to  his  old  housekeeper.  He  asked  me  if  it  had 
merit ;  I  said  it  had  learning  and  elegance  of  expres- 
sion, and  a  great  deal  about  liberty,  which  he  would 
like,  but  which  I  did  not  like.f  He  said  he  would 

*  A  somewhat  ambiguous  prayer,  but  doubtless  it  is  to  a  blaze 
of  joy  the  writer  was  aspiring. 

t  Mr.  Boswell  here  seems  to  forget  a  certain  cap  of  his,  with  the 
inscription  "  Paoli  and  Liberty."  What  the  book  above  referred 
to  is,  is  not  certain :  but  probably  it  was  either  the  '  Selection  of 
Historical  and  Political  Memoirs,'  or  the  'Historical  Essay  on 
the  Abuse  of  Unrestrained  Power,'  which  was  published  in  1778. 


MR.  TEMPLE'S  BOOK.  239 

read  it,  which  is  a  compliment  he  does  not  often  pay 
to  a  book ;  I  have  therefore  ordered  another  copy  to 
be  sent  to  him,  with  a  card  from  me,  to  remind  him. 
It  is  an  erroneous  report  that  he  wrote  the  '  European 
Settlements ;'  he  told  me  he  did  not ;  a  friend  of  his 
did,  and  he  revised. 

1st  May,  1779,  Southill,  Bedfordshire. 
I  began  this  letter  at  the  literary  head-quarters  in 
the  Poultry :  I  am  now  at  Southill,  to  which  place 
Mr.  Charles  Dilly  has  accompanied ;  it  is  the  house  of 
Squire  John  Dilly,  his  elder  brother.  The  family  of 
Dilly  have  been  land-proprietors  in  this  county  for  two 
hundred  years,  but  have  lately  changed  their  ancient 
inheritance,  lying  in  the  midst  of  Lord  Torrington's 
estate,  for  another  estate  belonging  to  his  Lordship. 

There  were  also  certain  '  Essays,  Moral  and  Literary '  (8vo,  Dilly) 
published  in  1777,  which  might  be  suggested  as  the  probable  work 
of  Mr.  Temple.  Certain  political  discussions  are  interspersed  in 
these  Essays,  which  may  be  the  passages  which  excited  Boswell's  ob- 
servations upon  his  correspondent's  aptitude  for  such  matters.  In 
the  '  London  Magazine  '  for  December,  1777,  of  which  we  have  seen 
Boswell  says  he  was  a  proprietor,  there  is  a  review  of  these  '  Essays' 
Moral  and  Literary,'  which  are  described,  in  a  style  somewhat  fami- 
liar to  the  reader  of  Boswell's  Letters,  as  "  an  agreeable  collection  of 
ingenious,  concise  essays,  on  a  great  variety  of  useful  subjects,  by 
some  unknown  writer,  who  seems  to  be  well  acquainted  with  the 
world,  and  yet  unspoiled  by  the  degeneracy  of  manners  which  at 
present  universally  prevails ;  he  draws  his  maxims  from  the  schools 
of  wisdom  and  virtue,  and  sends  them  forth  in  search  of  literary 
fame,  which  we  think  they  must  acquire  from  the  judicious  and  sober 
part  of  mankind."  The  same  Work  is  reviewed  with  praise  in  the 
'  Gentleman's  Magazine,'  December,  1777. 


240  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

I  am  quite  the  great  man  here,  and  am  to  go  for- 
ward on  the  North  road  tomorrow  morning.  Poor 
Mr.  Edward  Dilly  is  fast  a-dying;  he  cried  with  affec- 
tion at  seeing  me  here ;  he  is  in  as  agreeable  a  frame 
as  any  Christian  can  be ;  repeats  the  second  paragraph 
of  Dr.  Young's  second  Night,  "  Why  start  at  death," 
etc.,  and  another  passage,  "Death,  a  subterraneous 
road  to  bliss,"  or  some  such  words.  I  am  edified 
here. 

Newcastle-upon-Tyne,  8th  May,  1779. 

I  got  into  the  fly  at  Buckden,  and  had  a  very  good 
journey.  An  agreeable  young  widow  nursed  me,  and 
supported  my  lame  foot  on  her  knee.  Am  I  not  for- 
tunate in  having  something  about  me  that  interests  most 
people  atjirst  sight  in  my  favour  ?  I  am  to  rest  here 
till  Monday,  when  I  hope  to  get  home  to  my  wife  and 
children.  I  never  wished  so  warmly  to  see  them  again 
as  I  do  at  present.  What  a  pleasing  attraction  after 
quitting  London ! 

You  ask  me  about  Lowth's  '  Isaiah ; '  I  never  once 
heard  it  mentioned  till  I  asked  Dr.  Johnson  about  it, 
who  said  he  could  give  no  opinion  about  it  himself,  as 
he  had  not  read  it,  but  he  was  told  it  was  a  great  work 
for  those  that  love  that  kind  of  learning.  The  second 
edition  is  not  in  octavo,  so  you  had  better  wait.  I  do 
not  think  Lowth  an  engaging  man ;  I  sat  a  good  while 
with  him  this  last  spring.  He  said  Dr.  Johnson  had 
great  genius.  I  give  you  this  as  a  specimen  of  his 
talk,  which  seemed  to  me  to  be  neither  discriminating, 
pointed,  nor  animated ;  yet  he  certainly  has  much  cu- 


DICK'S    BRITISH    GEORGIC   REVIEWED.  241 

rious  learning,  and  a  good  deal  of  critical  sagacity.  I 
put  into  his  hands,  at  Sir  Alexander  Dick's  desire,  the 
first  Book  of  a  British  Georgic,  which  the  worthy 
and  amiable  Knight  has  been  for  some  time  past 
(after  seventy-three)  amusing  himself  in  composing ;  it 
is  blank-verse  precepts  [I  am  now  writing,  or  rather 
going  to  write,  at  Newcastle,  Sunday,  9th  May] — on 
agriculture  and  gardening,  interspersed  with  political 
reflections  and  complimentary  characters.  You  cannot 
imagine  how  fond  he  is  of  this  work.  There  are  in  it 
very  good  things,  and  sometimes  tolerable  lines,  but 
he  really  is  not  a  poet.  He  said  that  for  some  time 
he  intended  it  only  for  his  son  and  a  few  friends,  but 
I  have  perceived  the  wish  of  publication  gradually 
springing  from  the  root,  which  has,  I  take  it,  been  all 
along  in  his  mind ;  he  even  desired  I  should  show  it 
to  Strahan,  which  was  a  strong  indication  of  what  he 
flattered  himself  would  be  encouraged  by  his  friends. 
I  evaded  his  inclination,  laying  hold  of  what  he  de- 
clared as  to  his  intending  his  Georgic  only  for  his  son 
and  his  descendants,  and  telling  him  that  to  show  it  to 
Strahan,  who,  as  poor  Garrick  said,  was  an  obtuse  man, 
would  be  like  showing  family  furniture  to  an  auc- 
tioneer, and  that  the  critical  remarks  of  Lowth  would 
be  quite  sufficient.  Lady  Dick  was  very  uneasy  lest 
he  should  publish  it ;  last  year  I  left  a  part  of  it  with 
Dr.  Armstrong.  I  was  curious  to  see  how  he  would 
bring  himself  off  with  Sir  Alexander,  in  giving  his  opi- 
nion of  what  his  friend  exhibited  to  him  as  poetry,  but 
which  he  knew  not  to  come  under  that  species  of  com- 

R 


242  LETTERS    OF   BOSWELL. 

position.  He  did  very  well ;  he  wrote.  It  has  the  best 
part  of  poetry,  "  good  sense,  without  which  all  poetry 
is  little  better  than  nonsense;  but  I  wish  you  would  give 
us  something  de  temperamentis,  for  which  you  must 
have  made  collections."  Here  he  made  a  fine  transi- 
tion to  Sir  Alexander's  skill  in  physic,  not  acknow- 
ledging however  in  his  friend  what  he  states  in  his 
poem  on  health, — 

"  One  power  of  physic,  melody,  and  song." 

The  Bishop  of  London  is  in  a  scrape.     I  doubt  if 
he  will  se  tirer  d' affaire  as  cleverly  as  Armstrong  did. 

"  I  laugh  to  think  how  your  unshaken  Cato 
Will  stand  aghast  while  unexpected  prosing 
Pours  in  upon  him." 

Dr.  Johnson  had  not  heard  of  Pearce's  Sermons, 
which  I  wondered  at,  considering  that  he  wrote  all  the 
Life  published  by  the  Chaplain  Derby,  except  what  his 
Lordship  wrote  himself.  I  daresay  you  may  buy  any 
performance  by  Pearce,  without  any  recommendation, 
and  be  pretty  sure  of  being  pleased.  I  have  not 
looked  at  Gibbon's  defence,  and  I  hear  nothing  of  the 
publication  of  his  second  volume.  He  is  an  ugly,  af- 
fected, disgusting  fellow,  and  poisons  our  literary  Club 
to  me.  I  did  not  know  Monboddo's  new  book,  '  The 
Metaphysics  of  the  Ancients,'  had  been  advertised.  I 
expect  it  will  be  found  to  be  a  very  wonderful  perform- 
ance. I  think  I  gathered  from  a  conversation  with 
him,  that  he  believes  the  '  Metempsychosis.'  Voltaire ! 
Rousseau !  I  don't  hear  of  new  editions  of  them. 

Your  gentle  reproof  for  not  answering  your  letters 


TEMPLE'S  CAPACITY  AS  AUTHOR.  243 

exactly,  I  feel  to  be  very  just.  I  think  Dr.  Johnson 
never  answered  but  three  of  my  letters,*  though  I 
have  had  numerous  returns  from  him.  Have  I  not 
now  answered  all  yours  to  which  I  was  indebted  ? 

As  to  your  book,  now  that  I  have  read  it  over,  I 
must  candidly  tell  you  that  I  think  you  should  not 
puzzle  yourself  with  political  speculations  more  than  I 
do  ;f  neither  of  us  is  fit  for  that  sort  of  mental  la- 
bour. Mind  your  health,  your  temper,  your  fortune, 
your  wife  and  children,  and,  above  all,  your  duties  as 
a  clergyman.  But  public  matters  will  be  better  con- 
ducted, or  at  least  as  well  as  we  can  suggest.  Your 
letters  to  me,  and  your  cursory  remarks  on  authors  in 
the  Green  Book,  are  in  my  opinion  so  much  better 
than  the  College-like  sentences  your  book  contains, 
that  I  have  a  fresh  proof  how  very  few  of  those  who 
have  good  parts  are  fit  for  the  study,  far  less  the  prac- 
tice, of  government.  You  are  an  agreeable  companion 
in  a  postchaise,  but  by  no  means  fit  to  be  a  driver. 
We  should  cultivate  the  excellent  principle  of  submis- 
sion for  the  Lord's  sake.  { 


*  This  comparison  here  to  be  inferred  seems  to  run  somewhat 
thus  : — Temple  :  Boswell : :  Boswell  :  Johnson ;  not  a  very  flatter- 
ing position  for  Mr.  Temple !  That  part  of  the  letter  too  which 
contains  criticisms  and  advice  to  Temple  is  conceived  very  much  in 
the  Johnsonian  style,  and  resembles  in  some  parts  the  advice  which 
his  revered  friend  sometimes  preached  to  Boswell  for  his  edification. 

f  See  ante,  p.  239,  note. 

J  The  rest  of  the  letter  is  missing  ;  but,  judging  from  the  com- 
mencement of  this  passage  preserved  here,  the  loss  need  not  render 
the  Reader  inconsolable. 

R  2 


244  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

The  following  letter,  which  although  not  from  Bos- 
well's  pen,  had  been  preserved  in  the  present  collection, 
may  be  properly  here  inserted,  especially  as  it  refers 
to  Boswell,  and  contains  a  genuine  tribute  to  his  cha- 
racter. 

PROM  A  FRIEND  TO  MR.  TEMPLE. 

At  the  Earl  of  Findlater's,  Cullen  Home,  Scotland, 
3rd  November,  1779. 

I  have  been  negligent,  my  dear  Temple,  but  not 
forgetful  of  you  ;  Boswell  has,  I  hope,  told  you  so  long 
ago.  The  journey  hither  was  performed  so  slow,  that, 
though  we  left  London  4th  August,  we  did  not  arrive 
here  till  21st  September.  You  know  the  Coldstream 
road  to  Edinburgh,  the  nakedness  of  the  Borders,  and 
the  fine  situation  of  the  capital  of  Scotland,  with  the 
richness  and  beauty  of  its  environs.  I  saw  Boswell 
several  times  :  his  friendly,  obliging  disposition  atones 
for  all  that  is  not  quite  as  one  would  wish  in  him  ;  he 
showed  me  (not  ostentatiously,  but  at  my  desire)  some 
letters  of  his  friend  Dr.  Johnson,  which  do  the  Doctor 
more  honour,  in  my  opinion,  than  any  of  his  writings ; 
for  they  prove  that,  whatever  ruggedness,  or  even  bru- 
tality there  may  be  in  his  manners,  he  possesses  a  warm 
and  good  heart,  capable  of  receiving  and  retaining  the 
most  lively  impressions  of  friendship.  That  which  he 
has  for  Boswell  is  as  tender  as  it  is  sincere.  I  saw 
likewise,  half-an-hour,  at  his  own  house,  Dr.  Robert- 
son. It  is  impossible  to  judge  properly  of  a  nervous 
man,  who  talks  broad  Scotch,  from  such  an  interview, 


DR.   ROBERTSON.  245 

especially  as  I  must  confess  I  took  a  little  prejudice 
against  him  for  blaming  Mason's  publication,  for  not 
seeming  to  relish  Gray's  letters,  and  for  saying  that, 
when  he  saw  Mr.  Gray  in  Scotland,  he  gave  him  the 
idea  of  a  person  who  meant  to  pass  for  a  very  fine 
gentleman.  Except  this,  which  was  not  quite  polite  to 
me,  he  was  very  much  so.  He  said  he  had  written 
one  hundred  and  fifty  more  pages  of  the  '  History  of 
America,'  when  the  present  disturbances  stopped  his 
pen.  I  am  told  that  he  shines  most  in  his  public 
speeches.  When  a  sour  and  a  blind  zeal,  which  is 
wonderful  even  in  Scotland  in  this  age,  opposed  and 
defeated  the  reasonable  mitigation  of  laws,  dictated  by 
bigotry  against  the  Catholics,  he,  I  am  told,  distin- 
guished himself  by  pronouncing  a  very  fine  oration  in 
their  favour,  in  the  General  Assembly,  at  the  peril  of 
his  life,  for  his  house  was  afterwards  beset  by  the  de- 
luded and  furious  mob. 

From  Edinburgh  we  went  to  Hopton  House,  a 
proper  summer  palace  for  a  King  of  Scotland,  if  there 
were  one,  situated  on  the  edge  of  the  Frith  of  Forth, 
whose  glittering  tide  divides  it  from  a  landscape  of 
towns,  villages,  country-houses,  wood,  and  farms,  held 
up  to  view  on  a  rising  coast.  [Here  some  local  de- 
scription follows,  which  may  be  omitted :  he  refers 
also  to  Mr.  Henry  (Lord)  Kaimes's  skill  in  making 
fruitful  land  out  of  morass.  Of  the  owner  he  thus 
speaks.]  He  himself  has,  at  eighty-three,  the  vivacity  of 
twenty-three,  and  can  walk  seven  miles  without  fatigue. 
He  is  entertaining,  good-humoured,  and  possessed  of 


246  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

an  infinite  variety  of  knowledge,  which  he  produces  in 
a  flighty  manner,  entirely  unlike  the  dull  prose  of 
most  of  his  countrymen. 

If  you  pardon  my  long  silence,  and  wish  to  have  a 
slight  account  of  the  rest  of  our  journey,  and  of  this 
place,  do  me  the  pleasure  of  telling  me  so,  and  I  pro- 
mise you  your  letter  shall  not  remain  long  unanswered. 
Adieu  for  the  present,  and  believe  me  to  be  unalterably 

Yours, 

N.  N.  R.* 

*  The  name  of  the  writer  of  this  letter  is  not  known. 


247 


CHAPTER  XII. 

1780-1781. 

JOURNEY  TO  EDINBURGH. — DEAN  SMITH. — MR.  FALCONER/ — 
STAY  AT  CHESTER. —  LORD  MONBODDO's  METAPHYSICS. — 
BOSWELL'S  POSITION  AND  DIFFICULTIES.— BISHOP  HURD. — 
HAPPINESS  AND  KNOWLEDGE. DAVID  BOSWELL. HIS  CHA- 
RACTER.— SPECULATIONS  ON  HUMAN  MISERY  AND  PERSONAL 

PROSPECTS. NICHOLS  M'LAURIN. STORY  OF  AN  ORDINATION 

IN  THE  LAST  CENTURY. ARCHBISHOP  DRUMMOND. DR.  BOS- 
WELL. 

| 

66.]  Edinburgh,  4sth  January,  1780. 

My  dear  Temple, 

Again  an  unaccountable  cessation  of  our  correspon- 
dence !  but  it  would  be  foolish  to  employ  a  single  sen- 
tence about  such  a  mental  defaillance  as  both  of  us 
have  so  often  experienced. 

From  London,  after  an  excellent  fortnight  there,  I 
accompanied  Colonel  Stuart  to  Chester,  to  which  town 
his  regiment  was  ordered  from  Leeds,  and  there  I 
passed  another  fortnight  in  mortal  felicity.  I  had  from 
my  earliest  years  a  love  for  the  military  life,  and 
there  is  in  it  an  animation  and  relish  of  existence 
which  I  have  never  found  amongst  any  other  set  of 
men,  except  players,  with  whom  you  know  I  once 


248  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

lived  a  great  deal.  At  the  Mess  of  Colonel  Stuart's  regi- 
ment I  was  quite  the  great  man,  as  we  used  to  say ; 
and  I  was  at  the  same  time  ah1  joyous  and  gay.  Such 
was  my  home  at  Chester.  But  I  had  the  good  for- 
tune to  be  known  to  the  Bishop,  who  is  one  of  the 
most  distinguished  prelates  for  piety  and  eloquence, 
and  one  of  the  most  pleasing  men  in  social  life,  that 
you  can  imagine.  His  palace  was  open  to  me,  morn- 
ing, noon,  and  night ;  and  I  was  liberally  entertained 
at  his  hospitable  board.  At  Chester  too  I  found  Dean 
Smith,  the  translator  of  Longinus,  with  whom  you 
and  I  were  so  well  acquainted,  when  we  were  study- 
ing under  Mr.  John  Stevenson.  I  was  surprised  to 
find  him,  for  I  somehow  had  imagined  that  he  was  an 
ancient  English  author,  comparatively  speaking.  He 
is  very  old,  but  is  quite  cheerful  and  full  of  anecdotes. 
He  lives  very  retired,  with  a  disagreeable  wife,  and 
they  told  me  I  was  the  only  man  who  had  been  in  the 
deanery  for  a  long  time.  I  found  too  at  Chester  Mr. 
Falconer,  a  gentleman  of  fortune  and  extraordinary 
learning  and  knowledge,  who  is  preparing  a  new  edi- 
tion of  Strabo,  at  the  desire  of  the  University  of 
Oxford  :  he  was  exceedingly  obliging  to  me.  But  I 
must  not  give  you  a  transcript  of  my  Chester  Journal, 
which  contains  one  of  the  most  agreeable  portions  of 
my  existence.  The  curiosity  of  the  town  itself,  and 
the  beauty  of  its  environs,  entertained  me.  It  is  the 
winter  residence  of  a  great  many  genteel  families.  It 
has  a  Theatre  Royal  and  a  very  elegant  Assembly- 
room.  I  never  found  myself  so  well  received  any- 


DISAPPOINTED    AMBITION.  249 

where.  The  young  ladies  there  were  delightful,  and 
many  of  them  with  capital  fortunes.  Had  I  been  a 
bachelor,  I  should  have  certainly  paid  my  addresses  to 
a  Chester  lady. 

Since  my  return  home,  I  was  seized  with  a  severe 
cold,  which  was  very  general  here,  and  was  confined 
some  days  to  bed,  and  a  week  to  the  house.  Your 
last  letter  was  a  comfort  to  me  in  my  indisposition ; 
and  indeed  I  should  have  sooner  acknowledged  the 
favour.  I  have  been  all  this  Session  troubled  with 
lameness,  from  an  inconsiderable  cause,  the  nail  of  one 
of  my  great  toes  having  grown  into  the  flesh  and  in- 
flamed it.  I  am  at  present  confined  by  it,  our  first 
surgeon  having  undertaken  to  cure. 

I  wish  I  could  give  you  any  satisfactory  account  of 
my  studies.  I  have  done  little  at  Greek.  Lord  Mon- 
boddo's  'Ancient  Metaphysics/  which  I  am  reading 
carefully,  helps  me  to  recover  the  language ;  but  he  is 
not  an  agreeable  writer.  His  conversation  is  full  of 
learning,  but  by  much  too  odd  and  positive  and 
acharne  against  modern  manners.  I  really  think  my 
'  Hypochondriac'*  goes  on  wonderfully  well.  But  how 
inconsiderable  are  both  you  and  I,  in  comparison  with 
what  we  used  to  hope  we  should  be !  Yet  your 
learning  and  your  memoirs  set  you  far  above  the 
common  run  of  educated  men.  And  Son  pittore  anche 
io.  I  too,  in  several  respects,  have  attained  to  supe- 

*  Essays  published  in  the  'London  Magazine'  under  this  title, 
and  which  have  been  referred  to  elsewhere  in  enumerating  Boswell's 
works. 


LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

riority.     But  we  both  want  solidity  and  force  of  mind, 
such  as  we  observe  in  those  who  rise  in  active  life. 

My  mind  is  at  present  in  a  state  of  tranquillity,  or 
rather  good  insensibility.  I  have  neither  elevation  nor 
gaiety ;  but  I  am  easy.  My  father  was  this  winter 
seized  with  a  fever :  his  pulse  was  at  ninety-five,  and 
he  was  in  danger ;  but  he  has  recovered  wonderfully, 
and  is  now  as  well  as  he  has  been  for  several  years. 
But  he  is  sadly  influenced  by  his  second  wife ;  and 
I  cannot  interfere,  however  galling  it  is  to  see  him 
estranged  from  me  and  my  family. 

My  wife's,  nephews  stood  so  much  in  need  of  my 
assistance,  that  T  have  advanced  between  seven  and 
eight  hundred  pounds  for  them,  which  I  have  bor- 
rowed at  five  per  cent.  A  demand  is  now  made  upon 
me  which  I  must  answer  in  February ;  and  I  must  by 
no  means  inform  my  father.  May  I  beg  of  you,  my 
dearest  friend,  to  remit  me  £200,  for  which  I  will  send 
you  my  Bill.  Pray  do  it,  if  you  possibly  can,  for  I  am 
sadly  put  to  it.  If  you  can  lodge  a  credit  for  me  in 
London,  it  will  do.  I  am  sure,  from  our  mutual  con- 
fidence, you  will  do  what  you  can ;  and  pray  write  by 
return  of  post.  I  shall  soon  write  to  you  again. 
Ever  yours  most  warmly, 

J.  B. 

67.]  Auchinleck,  3rd  September,  1780. 

My  dear  Temple, 

To  bed  I  will  not  go  tonight  till  I  have  written  to 
you, — if  not  a  whole  letter,  at  least  a  good  part  of  one ; 


INDISPOSITION   FOR   STUDY.  251 

for  indeed  it  is  with  wonder  and  regret  that  I  think 
of  so  many  days  having  elapsed  without  my  thanking 
you  for  your  two  letters,  after  your  return  from  your 
jaunt  of  disappointment.  What  unaccountable  indo- 
lence seizes  me  at  times!  We  put  off  from  day  to 
day  the  writing  to  a  most  intimate  friend,  yet  in  the 
midst  of  all  this  procrastination  how  much  do  we  do 
that  might  be  left  undone. 

I  was  much  disappointed  that  you  did  not  come  to 
me  last  summer,  as  I  expected,  and  worthy  Johnston 
joined  with  me ;  but  by  the  accounts  which  you  give, 
I  must  pity  you  for  the  uneasiness  which  you  have 
suffered.  Well  can  I  figure,  my  dear  friend,  your 
restlessness  and  vexation,  first  in  London  and  then  in 
Cambridge.  But  I  cannot  help  thinking  you  in  the 
wrong,  when  you  complain  that  you  could  not  study 
in  London ;  for  in  my  opinion  a  man  may  pursue  any 
literary  inquiry  there  with  the  utmost  advantage  in 
every  respect.  In  London  I  suppose  we  may  find 
every  book  that  can  be  found  anywhere,*  and  one  is 
as  much  master  of  his  time  there  as  it  is  possible  to 
be ;  so  that  I  conclude  your  not  studying  in  London 
was  owing  to  some  indisposition  in  your  mind  or 
body.  Your  want  of  modern  books  at  Cambridge 
was  a  real  hindrance.  *  Often  do  I  upbraid  and  look 
down  upon  myself,  when,  in  contemplation  of  the 
heights  of  learning  to  which  one  may  attain,  I  view 

*  Alas !  three-quarters  of  a  century  since  this  was  written,  the 
stMrch  for  Mr.  Temple's  publications  at  the  British  Museum  has 
proved  vain. 


252  LETTERS    OF    BOS  WELL. 

my  own  inferiority,  and  think  how  much  many  others, 
and  amongst  them  you,  Temple,  are  above  me.  Yet 
on  the  other  hand,  when  I  consider  what  vexations 
you  suffer,  from  which  I  am  free,  I  am  inclined  to 
quiet  myself.  "  Much  study  is  a  weariness  to  the 
flesh,"  says  the  wise  man ;  now,  if  there  is  on  the 
whole  more  pain  than  pleasure  in  advancing  far  into 
literature,  would  you  advise  me  to  do  it  ? 

I  am  glad  that  you  had  two  agreeable  interviews 
with  Hurd ;  but  I  do  not  understand  that  you  dined 
with  him.  Should  not  a  Bishop  be  given  to  hospi- 
tality ?  I  hope  to  see  your  journal  that  you  kept ; 
you  shall  see  all  my  volumes  when  you  come  to  Scot- 
land. Let  us  resolve  that,  if  God  is  pleased  to  allow 
us  life  and  health,  we  shall  without  fail  have  a  meet- 
ing in  London  next  Spring.  I  am  sorry  that,  like  my- 
self, you  have  not  the  art  of  economy,  so  as  to  be 
laying  up  something  handsome  every  year,  when  your 
income  is,  as  I  suppose,  £500  a  year.  All  I  shall  say 
as  to  your  small  debt  to  me  is,  that  a  remittance  of  it 
to  me  in  my  present  situation,  whenever  you  can  easily 
spare  the  money,  would  be  an  aid.  Now,  Temple,  take 
care,  I  am  not  dunning  you ;  I  am  writing  with  a 
candid  frankness  to  my  most  intimate  friend,  who, 
when  his  fortune  was  diminished  by  his  generosity 
to  his  father,  offered  to  let  me  have  a  loan  of  £1000 
to  purchase  a  Commission  in  the  Guards.  Oh,  my 
friend  !  let  there  never  be  the  least  reserve  or  pos- 
sibility of  misunderstanding  between  us.  And  now 
good  night ! 


ADVANTAGES    OF    KNOWLEDGE.  253 

4M  September. — I  am  just  got  up,  and  offered  up 
my  players  to  God,  and  read  a  chapter  of  the  New 
Testament ;  I  resume  my  letter  to  you.  Drowsiness 
has  hung  heavy  upon  me  last  night,  when  I  was  will- 
ing to  suppose  more  pain  than  pleasure  in  advancing 
far  into  literature.  Men  of  delicate  nerves  may  at 
times  suffer  from  their  knowledge,  but  they  would 
suffer  from  something  else,  and  even  their  enjoyments 
from  knowledge  counterbalance  their  sufferings.  And 
it  is  to  be  hoped  that  a  period  is  coming  when  they 
will  have  a  more  full  relish  of  their  intellectual  acqui- 
sitions. And  men  of  sound  and  vigorous  minds  have 
high  satisfaction  in  their  knowledge.  Dr.  Johnson 
maintains  that  a  man  is  truly  happy  in  proportion  to 
his  knowledge.  I  myself,  who  know  so  little,  can 
judge  from  experience  of  the  pleasure  of  knowledge 
from  what  I  do  know.  What  must  be  the  pleasure  of 
some  men,  whose  enlarged  minds  and  retentive  me- 
mories possess  large  extensive  funds  of  various  know- 
ledge, provided  they  have  vivacity  enough  to  enjoy  it ! 

Edinburgh,  November  3,  1780. 

Only  think,  my  dear  friend,  of  this  letter's  being 
begun  on  the  3rd  of  September,  continued  a  little  on 
the  4th  of  that  month,  and  now  going  to  be  concluded 
(as  I  hope  at  least  it  will)  on  the  3rd  of  November ; 
so  that  it  has  lain  and  travelled  in  its  imperfect  state, 
or  rather  its  incipient  state,  two  months  all  but  one 
day.  I  know  you  will  forgive  this,  though  you  must 
regret  it,  as  I  do  most  sincerely. 


254  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

My  brother  arrived  at  Edinburgh  on  the  12th  June, 
and  lodged  in  my  house.  We  went  to  Auchinleck  in 
August,  and  were  four  weeks  there  with  our  father. 
David  and  I  then  returned  to  Edinburgh,  where  he 
staid  with  us  a  few  days,  after  which  he  went  to  Lon- 
don, and  is  now  settling  himself  there  as  a  merchant 
and  banker.  He  is  a  sensible,  intelligent,  accurate 
man,  very  formal  and  very  prudent ;  in  short,  as  dif- 
ferent from  me  in  his  manner,  and  in  his  general  way 
of  thinking,  as  you  can  suppose.  But  I  trust  he  is 
a  man  of  good  principles.  He  was  very  happy  in 
the  romantic  scenes  of  Auchinleck,  and  he  thinks 
highly  of  London ;  but  he  is  steady  to  business  and 
his  own  interest,  and  no  amusement  will  divert  him 
from  essential  advantage.  I  hope  he  will  do  well  in 
London.  He  says  he  will  probably  never  make  a  great 
fortune,  because  he  will  not  be  adventurous ;  but  he 
will  get  what  he  can  by  assiduity  and  economy.  He 
told  me  that  soon  after  settling  in  Spain  he  gave  up 
all  philosophizing,  and  applied  himself  to  real  business. 
He  says  he  found  out  that  men  who  speculate  on  life, 
as  you  and  I  do,  are  not  successful  in  substantial  con- 
cerns. He  is  in  the  right,  I  am  afraid.  If  you  have 
money  matters  to  transact  in  London,  I  beg  you  may 
employ  him.  Write  to  him,  under  cover,  to  Dilly, 
till  he  gives  you  an  address. 

The  subject  of  speculating  brings  to  my  mind  the 
difficulty,  never  to  be  resolved  in  this  state  of  being, 
which  you  mention  in  the  first  of  your  two  letters 
before  me.  Could  not  infinite  wisdom  and  goodness 


INCOME    AND    EXPENDITURE.  255 

have  made  us  less  miserable,  if  not  more  happy  ?     We 
must  be  content  to 

"Wait  the  great  teacher,  Death,  and  God  adore !" 

It  is  to  me  clear,  a  priori,  that  your  question  may 
be  answered  in  the  affirmative,  supposing  us  to  be 
such  machines  as  the  fatalists  mention ;  but  as  I 
think  it  nobler  to  be  a  free  agent,  struggling  as  we 
must  from  some  sad,  mysterious  causes,  I  comfort 
myself  with  the  Christian  revelation  of  our  being  in  a 
state  of  purification,  and  that  we  shall  in  course  of 
time  attain  to  felicity.  It  is  delightful,  Temple,  to 
look  forward  to  the  period  when  you  and  I  shall  en- 
joy what  we  now  imagine.  In  the  meantime  let  us 
be  patient,  and  do  what  good  we  can. 

I  could  not  help  smiling  at  the  expostulation  which 
you  suggest  to  me,  to  try  with  my  father.  It  would 
do  admirably  with  some  fathers ;  but  it  would  make 
mine  much  worse,  for  he  cannot  bear  that  his  son 
should  talk  with  him  as  a  man.  I  can  only  lament 
his  unmelting  coldness  to  my  wife  and  children,  for  I 
fear  it  is  hopeless  to  think  of  his  ever  being  more  affec- 
tionate towards  them.  Yet  it  must  be  acknowledged 
that  his  paying  £1000  of  my  debt  some  years  ago  was 
a  large  bounty.  He  allows  me  £300  a  year.  But  I 
find  that  what  I  gain  by  my  practice  and  that  sum 
together  will  not  support  my  family.  I  have  now  two 
sons  and  three  daughters.  I  am  in  hopes  that  my 
father  will  augment  my  allowance  to  £400  a  year.  I 
was  indeed  very  imprudent  in  expressing  my  extreme 
aversion  to  his  second  marriage ;  but  since  it  took 


256  LETTERS    OF    BOS  WELL. 

place,  I  am  conscious  of  having  behaved  to  himself 
and  his  lady  with  such  respectful  attention  and  im- 
posed such  a  restraint  upon  myself,  as  is  truly  me- 
ritorious. The  woman  is  very  implacable,  and  I 
imagine  it  is  hardly  possible  that  she  can  ever  be  my 
friend  :  she  however  behaves  much  better  to  the  chil- 
dren than  their  grandfather  does.  We  are  all  to  dine 
at  my  father's  today :  he  is  better  now  than  he  has 
been  for  several  years. 

Your  counsel  to  me  to  set  my  mind  at  rest,  and  be 
content  with  promotion  in  Scotland,  is,  I  believe,  very 
wise.  My  brother  David  enforced  it  earnestly.  If 
my  father  lives  a  few  years  longer,  age  will,  I  suppose, 
fix  me  here  without  any  question  ;  for  to  embark  in  a 
new  sphere,  when  one  is  much  after  forty,  is  not  advis- 
able. Yet,  my  dear  Temple,  ambition  to  be  in  Par- 
liament, or  in  the  Metropolis,  is  very  allowable.  Per- 
haps my  exalted  notions  of  public  situation  are  falla- 
cious ;  for  I  begin  to  think  that  true  elevation  is  to  be 
acquired  from  study  and  thinking,  and  that  when  one 
is  used  to  the  most  eminent  situations  they  become 
familiar  and  insipid,  and  perhaps  vexatious.  David 
says,  my  chief  object  should  be  the  augmenting,  im- 
proving, and  beautifying  Auchinleck ;  and  that  I  may 
do  all  that  to  more  advantage  by  having  a  smaller  in- 
come in  Scotland  than  a  larger  in  London.  We  must 
see  what  time  will  present.  There  is  a  fine  fame  in 
being  distinguished  in  London,  were  it  only  in  literary 
society  as  I  am ;  and  I  could  educate  my  children  to 
great  advantage  there.  What  are  your  studies  at  pre- 


CLERICAL    IMPROPRIETIES.  257 

sent?  What  are  you  writing?  I  must  again  and 
again  renew  my  wish  for  the  publication  of  your  Green 
Book.  It  must  no  doubt  have  many  additions  since 
I  saw  it.  Short,  elegant  characters  of  books  are  to 
me  most  engaging,  next  to  characters  of  men,  and 
yours  pleased  me  exceedingly. 

Nichols  was  some  days  here,  on  his  way  home.  His 
foppery  is  unbecoming  in  a  clergyman.  But  I  was 
really  much  offended  with  him  one  night,  when  he 
supped  with  me.  M'Laurin,  who,  I  fear,  is  an  infidel, 
was  the  only  other  person  in  company.  Nichols  gave 
a  ludicrous  account  of  his  ordination,  said  he  applied 
to  the  Archbishop  of  York  (Drummond),  who  asked 
him  what  books  he  had  read  on  divinity.  "  Why 
truly,  my  Lord,"  said  he,  "  I  must  tell  you  frankly, — 
none  at  all,  though  I  have  read  other  books  enough." 
"  Very  well,"  said  the  Archbishop,  "  I  '11  give  you  a 
letter  to  one  who  will  examine  you  properly."  Ac- 
cordingly he  got  a  letter  to  a  clergyman  in  London, 
who  examined  him  ;  and,  to  cut  short  this  disagreeable 
story,  Nichols  said  that  he  did  not  well  understand 
what  was  meant,  when  desired  to  write  on  the  neces- 
sity of  a  Mediator ;  that  he  wrote  some  strange  stuff, 
as  fast  as  he  would  do  a  card  to  a  lady ;  and  that  he 
had  never  read  the  Greek  New  Testament.  He  made 
a  very  profane  farce  of  the  whole.  M'Laurin  laughed 
exceedingly.  I  could  only  be  grave ;  for  if  I  had  ar- 
gued on  the  impropriety  of  the  story,  the  matter  would 
have  been  made  worse,  while  they  were  two  to  one. 
Now,  my  dear  friend,  I  do  not  believe,  in  the  first 


258  LETTEES   OF    BOS  WELL. 

place,  that  the  Archbishop  would  be  so  shamefully 
unfaithful  to  his  awful  trust.  If  he  had  been  so,  it 
was  dishonourable  in  Nichols  to  tell.  Upon  either 
supposition  Nichols  was  avowing  himself  a  cheat. 
Neither  could  it  be  true  that  he  was  so  grossly  igno- 
rant as  he  alleged  he  was.  I  shall  never  receive  him 
again  into  my  house.  What  I  have  now  told  you  hap- 
pened on  a  Saturday  night.  I  called  on  him  next  day 
to  have  talked  to  him  of  it,  but  did  not  find  him.  I 
sent  on  Monday  morning  to  know  if  he  was  gone,  that 
I  might  still  see ;  he  was  just  stepping  into  the  post- 
chaise  to  set  out  for  his  Living.  Perhaps  it  was  as  well 
that  I  did  not  see  him.  You  know  I  speak  pretty 
strongly.  And  why  should  I  take  any  concern  about 
him? 

It  pleases  me  that  you  express  concern  for  the  death 
of  my  poor  uncle,  Dr.  Boswell.  He  was  a  very  good 
scholar,  knew  a  great  many  things,  had  an  elegant 
taste,  and  was  very  affectionate ;  but  he  had  no  con- 
duct. His  money  was  all  gone.  And,  do  you  know, 
he  was  not  confined  to  one  woman.  He  had  a  strange 
kind  of  religion ;  but  I  flatter  myself  he  will  be  ere 
long,  if  he  is  not  already,  in  Heaven. 

The  state  of  the  nation  is  indeed  wretched,  nor  do 
I  see  any  prospect  of  our  being  better.  It  is  shocking 
to  think  that  a  new  Parliament  is  returned,  which  will 
be  as  subservient  to  Ministry  as  the  last.  I  agree  with 
you  sincerely,  my  friend,  that  it  would  be  better  to 
be  a  Lord  of  Session,  with  an  unblemished  character, 
than  a  Peer  and  Lord  Chief  Justice  by  such  means  as 


HYPOCHONDRIA    OR    HYPOCRISY.  259 

these  promotions  have  been  attained.  I  would  not 
have  been  one  of  those  who  rejected  the  petitions  from 
America, — no,  not  for  half  the  British  Empire.  Yet  T 
am  a  Tory  still,  for  I  distinguish  between  our  limited 
Monarch  and  a  despotic  Ministry. 

I  again  can  only  express  hopes  of  studying.  I 
would  fain  recover  Greek,  or  indeed  learn  it,  for  I 
never  had  much.  Our  Session  approaches  :  I  shall 
then  be  harassed  with  unimportant  business.  Qai 
fit  M&cenas  must  ever  occur  to  us.  I  should  think 
you  might  be  very  happy  with  so  good  an  income,  the 
sacred  duties  of  your  profession,  and  the  studies  which 
you  can  follow  with  so  much  success.  I  enjoyed  ex- 
traordinary good  spirits  till  yesterday.  I  am  afraid  a 
fit  of  hypochondria  is  come,  and  that  it  may  last  some 
time.*  Pray  let  me  hear  from  you  oftener.  My  best 
compliments  to  Mrs.  Temple,  and  love  to  your  young 
family.  Let  us  be  pleased  we  are  both  very  well.  So 

adieu ! 

Most  affectionately  yours, 

J.  B. 

*  The  reader  will  perhaps  recollect  a  letter  of  Dr.  Johnson's  to 
Boswell  (March  14th,  1787)  which  he  printed  in  the  Life,  and  where 
the  Doctor  says,  "  I  hoped  you  had  got  rid  of  all  the  hypocrisy  of 
misery,"  and  denounces  his  "  affectation  of  distress."  However 
it  is  by  no  means  improbable,  as  has  been  mentioned  in  the  In- 
troduction to  this  Volume,  though  Dr.  Johnson  refused  to  credit 
it,  that,  if  not  constitutionally  disposed  to  hypochondria,  yet  after 
drinking  and  excessive  excitement  Boswell  was  subject  to  great  de- 
pression, which,  as  was  natural  to  him,  he  paraded  as  an  impor- 
tant constitutional  phenomenon,  and  elevated  to  the  dignity  of  hy- 
pochondria. 


260 


CHAPTER  XIII. 

1781-1789. 

INTERVAL  IN  CORRESPONDENCE. DEATH  OF  BOSWELL' S  FATHER. 

BOSWELL   IN  DIFFICULTIES. DEATH   OF   DR.  JOHNSON. 

'TOUR  TO  THE  HEBRIDES.' — BOSWELL  COMES  TO  LONDON. — 

BORROWS  MONEY. A  COMPANION  AND  GOVERNESS  IN  1788. — 

CHRIST'S  HOSPITAL. — '  LIFE  OF  JOHNSON.' — DISSIPATION  AND 
DESPONDENCY. — ILLNESS  OF  BOSWELL's  WIFE. — TAKES  A  HOUSE 
IN  QUEEN  ANNE  STREET  WEST. — NO  PROSPECT  AT  WESTMIN- 
STER HALL. — MALONE'S  ASSISTANCE. — ARCHBISHOP'S  DINNER 

TO  JUDGES  AND  COUNSEL. BECOMES  CANDIDATE  FOR  HIS 

COUNTY. 

FROM  the  3rd  of  September  1780,  to  the  5th  of  January 
1787,  no  further  letters  have  been  preserved.  During 
this  interval  several  important  events  affecting  Mr.  Bos- 
well  occurred.  One  of  these  was  the  death  of  his  father, 
in  the  year  1782.  Upon  this  occasion  it  was  that, 
writing  to  Boswell,  Dr.  Johnson  made  the  distinction 
between  a  kind  and  fond  father.  "  Kindness,  at  least 
actual,  is  in  our  power,  but  fondness  is  not ;  and  if  by 
negligence  or  imprudence  you  had  extinguished  his 
fondness,  he  could  not  at  will  rekindle  it.  Nothing 
then  remained  between  you  but  mutual  forgiveness  of 
each  other's  faults,  and  mutual  desire  of  each  other's 


DEATH    OF    DR.    JOHNSON.  261 

happiness."  He  adds  also  a  very  valuable  suggestion 
— unfortunately  useless — that  it  should  now  be  Mr. 
Boswell's  "first  care  not  to  be  in  any  man's  debt." 

In  December  of  the  year  1784  died  Dr.  Johnson, 
who,  notwithstanding  many  other  idolatries  to  which 
Boswell  addicted  himself  from  time  to  time,  remained 
the  chief  object  of  his  worship.  Henceforth,  instead 
of  collecting  materials,  Boswell  began  to  prepare  them 
for  publication, — a  labour  requiring  great  industry, 
which  indeed,  in  spite  of  failing  health,  he  freely  exer- 
cised. The  very  following  year  (1785)  his  first  expe- 
riment on  the  Biography  was  tried,  and  he  published 
the  'Journal  of  a  Tour  to  the  Hebrides/  which  we 
have  seen  he  had  long  been  anxious  to  give  to  the 
public ;  and  thus  commenced  the  permanent  associa- 
tion of  his  name  with  that  of  Dr.  Johnson. 

He  was  able  now  to  carry  out  another  great  object 
of  his  ambition,  that  of  coming  to  London  to  enrol 
himself  at  the  English  Bar.  As  we  shall  presently 
see,  however,  this  step  did  not  aid  him  in  making 
the  figure  he  had  hoped.* 

Boswell  also  entered  into  political  strife  in  1789, 
and  proposed  to  enter  into  a  contest  for  the  represen- 
tation of  "  his  County."  He  did  not  however  succeed 
in  gaining  the  object  of  his  ambition. 


.]  London,  5th  January,  1787. 

My  dear  Temple, 

By  what  channel  I  know  not,  farther  than  the  penny - 

*  See  Letter,  post,  p.  304  ;  January  10th,  1789. 


LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

post,  I  received  this  morning,  before  I  got  out  of  bed, 
your  last  very  affecting  letter.  Business  called  me  into 
the  City,  and  I  returned  with  intention  to  write  to  you : 
but  Sir  Joshua  Reynolds  has,  I  find,  invited  me  to  dine 
at  his  house  at  four,  with  the  Laureate,  who  is  just  come 
to  town,  and  I  cannot  resist ;  so  I  can  only  assure  you 
of  my  sincerest  sympathy  and  prayers,  ineffectual  as  I 
may  fear  they  are.  I  have  regretted  that  I  was  not  ac- 
quainted with  my  amiable  godson.  Perhaps  I  should 
now  be  thankful ;  yet  when  my  mind  is  firm,  as  it  is 
at  present,  I  feel  a  solid  confidence  in  the  Divine  wis- 
dom, with  a  humble  waiting  "  for  the  great  teacher, 
Death." 

You  shall  hear  from  me  soon  again ;  and  I  beg  you 
may  write  frequently,  under  cover  of  Mr.  Courtenay. 
Be  comforted,  my  old  and  most  intimate  friend,  with 
pious  hope,  and  be  assured  of  the  unceasing  and  warm 
regard  of  your  truly  affectionate 

JAMES  BOSWEL 


A  prophecy  that  the  forthcoming  Life  of  Johnson 
should  be  the  most  perfect  piece  of  biography  which 
the  world  has  seen  is  boldly  made  by  Boswell  in  the 
following  letter,  and  time  has  seen  it  fulfilled. 

69.]  London,  Sunday,  24<th  February,  1788. 

My  dear  Temple, 

I  was  yesterday  enabled,  by  your  friendship,  to  keep 
my  credit  entire,  in  a  place  where  any  suspicion  against 


TREATMENT  OF  GOVERNESSES.         263 

it  is  very  fatal.  David  will  send  you  rny  note,  which 
is  all  the  security  that  is  necessary  in  such  a  transac- 
tion. You  need  be  under  no  sort  of  apprehension  as 
to  the  sudden  demand  of  the  £630;  for  though  the  Will 
should  be  set  aside  (which  I  do  not  fear)  it  must  be  by 
a  tedious  suit  in  Chancery  ;  and  you  may  depend  upon 
your  advance  to  me  being  repaid  long  before  you  could 
have  occasion  for  the  money  in  that  event. 

As  to  your  niece,  it  is  very  natural  for  you  to 
imagine  that  what  you  affectionately  and  laudably  wish 
is  practicable,  nay  easy.  But  in  a  calm  conversation 
with  Miss  Palmer,  with  whom  I  went  to  breakfast,  on 
purpose  to  talk  with  her  on  the  subject,  I  found  that 
to  get  your  niece  into  the  situation  of  a  companion  and 
governess  is  precisely  the  most  difficult  thing  that  can 
be  figured.  Sir  Joshua,  who  was  by,  and  has  always 
good  sense  and  observation,  lent  a  word,  and  said,  "  a 
companion  must  be  one  whom  one  chooses  from  one's 
own  knowledge.  Nobody  says  to  another,  Get  me  a 
companion."  Then,  said  Miss  Palmer,  so  many  ac- 
complishments are  necessary  in  a  governess,  that  pro- 
bably this  young  woman  would  not  answer  ;  and  were 
she  to  take  the  mode  which  is  frequently  tried,  of  get- 
ting into  a  boarding-school  as  what  is  called  a  half- 
boarder,  to  become  qualified  as  a  teacher,  she  probably 
might  not  find  an  elegible  situation ;  because,  except  in 
some  of  the  very  great  families,  a  governess  is  treated 
little  better  than  a  common  servant.  You  see  then,  my 
friend,  how  a  scheme,  which  you  and  I,  in  the  warmth 
of  simplicity  (which  I  think  will  for  ever  mark  our 


264  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

characters,)  might  think  could  be  realized  speedily,  is 
in  fact  almost  hopeless.  My  wife  told  me  that  a  lady 
of  pretty  good  fortune  here,  who  is  her  relation  and 
mine,  told  her  that  she  sent  her  daughter  to  a  board- 
ing-school, because  she  could  not  afford  to  keep  a 
second  table  for  a  governess,  and  she  could  not  bear 
to  have  governess  sit  at  table  with  her  husband  and 
her.  In  Scotland  I  know  they  are  better  treated,  and 
perhaps  in  the  country  in  England.  However  it  ap- 
pears to  me  that  what  you  wish  for  your  niece  can  be 
attained  only  in  the  North,  where  her  connections  are, 
and  where  her  accent  would  not  be  an  objection,  as  it 
certainly  would  be  here ;  or,  by  your  taking  her  for 
some  time  into  your  own  family,  and  by  degrees  get- 
ting her  recommended  to  some  agreeable  situation  in 
the  West,  through  your  means. 

As  to  your  nephew,  whom  you  wish  to  get  into 
Christ's  Hospital,  honest  David  (who,  at  the  same  time 
that  he  is  accurate  and  strict  as  to  his  own  rights 
and  his  own  agreements,  is  truly  active  in  serving  his 
friends)  has  already  brought  me  a  list  of  the  Governors, 
so  many  of  whom,  marked  with  asterisks,  have  a  right 
(about  once  in  two  years)  to  present  a  boy,  not  a  son 
of  a  freeman  of  London ;  and  amongst  them  I  find 
Alderman  Clark,  who  was  a  friend  of  Dr.  Johnson's,  to 
whom  I  shall  apply ;  and  our  friend  Mr.  Wilkes,  to 
whom  both  you  and  I  may  apply.  But  what  I  really 
think  will  be  the  most  probable  means  of  attaining  to 
what  I  find  is  an  object  of  much  competition,  is  for  you 
to  get  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Gwathen  to  interest  Sir  Joshua 


WHAT    IS    BIOGRAPHY?  205 

Reynolds  to  ask  it  of  Alderman  Boydell,  the  great 
printseller  and  patron  of  artists,  who,  either  himself, 
or  by  means  of  some  other  Governor,  may  get  it  done. 
As  I  have  too  often  seen  how  applications  are  civilly 
received,  but  without  effect,  Sir  Joshua  must  be  pre- 
vailed on  to  urge  it — to  make  a  point  of  it. 

I  have  not  yet  had  a  message  from  Mr.  Railton, 
though  he  took  down  my  address,  and  promised  we 
should  meet  when  he  had  looked  over  the  letters  and 
papers  on  Mr.  Forster's  affairs.  If  he  and  I  differ  as 
to  the  right  to  the  £250  legacy,  I  really  think  that  the 
opinion  of  an  experienced  counsel  should  be  taken,  but 
without  letting  it  be  known ;  and  if  it  be  for  your 
sister,  let  her  stand  a  suit.  If  not,  let  her  trust  to  the 
generosity  of  the  creditors. 

So  much  for  business.  Does  it  not  strike  you  how 
frequent  our  letters  are  when  that  is  the  case,  com- 
pared with  those  periods  when  we  have  only  friendly 
reciprocation  and  literary  correspondence? — a  proof 
how  man  is  intended  for  solid  realities,  more  than  the 
more  pleasing  and  more  amiable  objects  of  the  heart 
and  the  fancy ;  yet  surely  intellectual  business  may  be 
considered  to  be  as  real  as  anything  whatever. 

Mason's  Life  of  Gray  is  excellent,  because  it  is  inter- 
spersed with  letters  which  show  us  the  man.  His  Life 
of  Whitehead  is  not  a  life  at  all,  for  there  is  neither 
a  letter  nor  a  saying  from  first  to  last.  I  am  abso- 
lutely certain  that  my  mode  of  biography,  which  gives 
not  only  a  History  of  Johnson's  visible  progress  through 
the  world,  and  of  his  publications,  but  a  view  of  his 


266  LETTERS   OF    BOSWELL. 

mind  in  his  letters  and  conversations,  is  the  most  per- 
fect that  can  be  conceived,  and  will  be  more  of  a  Life 
than  any  work  that  has  ever  yet  appeared. 

I  have  been  wretchedly  dissipated,  so  that  I  have  not 
written  a  line  for  a  fortnight ;  but  today  I  resume  my 
pen,  and  shall  labour  vigorously.  I  am  now  in  strong, 
steady  spirits,  which  make  me  confident,  instead  of 
being  in  despondency.  Oh,  my  friend,  what  can  be 
the  reason  of  such  depression  as  we  often  suffer  ?  I  am 
very,  very  uneasy,  on  account  of  the  state  of  my  affairs. 
When  you  come  we  will  consult.  Now  I  charge  you 
to  be  determined  in  coming  instantly  after  Easter. 
Kurd  does  not  [publish  ?]  his  Life  of  Warburton, 
though  it  is  written,  but* 
Adieu,  my  dear,  friend. 

Yours  affectionately, 

J.  B. 

My  wife  is,  I  thank  God,  much  better ;  but  is  it 
not  cruel  to  keep  her  in  this  pernicious  air,  when  she 
might  be  so  much  better  at  Auchinleck  ?  But,  come, 
come,  come  !  Upon  my  honour,  if  it  be  possible  that  you 
disappoint  me  another  year,  I  shall  believe  you  im- 
mersed in  money -making.  Oh,  my  friend  !  let  us  have 
some  more  comfortable  hours  in  our  own  old  way. 
On  Saturday  Sir  Joshua,  Miss  Palmer,  Mr.  Malone, 
Mr.  Laugton,  dined  with  us  ;  Courtenay  was  taken  ill 
and  could  not  come,  though  engaged. 


*  The  rest  of  the  letter  is  illegible. 


DISAPPOINTMENT    AT    THE    BAR.  267 

70.]  London,  10th  January,  1789. 

My  dear  Temple, 

Another  sad  interruption  of  our  correspondence, 
without  any  sufficient  reason.  Soon  after  receiving 
your  last,  long,  kind  letter,  I  recovered  my  spirits 
pretty  well,  I  know  not  how.  A  letter  from  my  wife, 
recommending  me  to  take  a  house  in  a  well-aired  situ- 
ation, determined  me  not  to  sell  my  furniture  ;  as  my 
doing  so,  after  what  she  wrote,  might  appear  like  dis- 
couraging her  from  coming  to  me,  which,  though  I 
could  hardly  hope,  would  have  made  me  very  happy. 
It  is  incredible  what  difficulty  I  found,  in  several  weeks' 
wandering,  to  find  a  house  that  would  answer ;  and  at 
last  I  fixed  on  one  at  £50,  in  Queen  Anne  Street  West, 
Cavendish  Square,  very  small  but  neat.  It  however 
would  not  accommodate  the  whole  of  my  family,  with 
even  tolerable  conveniency,  but  would  serve  as  a  sort 
of  camp-lodging  till  better  could  be  had.  In  winter, 
the  upholsterers  and  brokers  take  numbers  of  houses 
and  furnish  them  with  old  trash,  and  by  letting  them 
furnished  get  great  profits.  This  makes  it  very  diffi- 
cult to  get  choice  of  unfurnished  houses  at  that  season. 
I  am  in  a  most  illegal  situation,  and  for  appearance 
should  have  cheap  chambers  in  the  Temple,  as  to  which 
I  am  stil>  inquiring.  But  in  truth  I  am  sadly  dis- 
couraged by  having  no  practice,  nor  probable  prospect 
of  it ;  and  to  confess  fairly  to  you,  my  friend,  I  am 
afraid  that,  were  I  to  be  tried,  I  should  be  found  so 
deficient  in  the  forms,  the  quirks  and  the  quiddities, 
which  early  habit  acquires,  that  I  should  expose  myself. 
Yet  the  delusion  of  Westminster  Hall,  of  brilliant 


268  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

reputation  and  splendid  fortune  as  a  barrister,  still 
weighs  upon  my  imagination.  I  must  be  seen  in  the 
Courts,  and  must  hope  for  some  happy  openings  in 
causes  of  importance.  The  Chancellor,  as  you  observe, 
has  not  done  as  I  expected ;  but  why  did  I  expect  it  ? 
I  am  going  to  put  him  to  the  test.  Could  I  be  satis- 
fied with  being  Baron  of  Auchinleck,  with  a  good  in- 
come for  a  gentleman  in  Scotland,  I  might,  no  doubt, 
be  independent.  But  what  can  be  done  to  deaden 
the  ambition  which  has  ever  raged  in  my  veins  like  a 
fever?  In  the  country,  I  should  sink  into  wretched 
gloom,  or  at  best  into  listless  dullness  and  sordid  abs- 
traction. Perhaps  a  time  may  come  when  I  may  by 
lapse  of  time  be  grown  fit  for  it.  As  yet  I  really,  from 
a  philosophical  spirit,  allow  myself  to  be  driven  along 
the  tide  of  life  with  a  good  deal  of  caution,  not  to  be 
much  hurt ;  and  still  flattering  myself  that  an  unex- 
pected lucky  chance  may  at  last  place  me  so,  that  the 
prediction  of  a  fortunate  cap  appearing  on  my  head  at 
my  birth  will  be  fulfilled. 

My  two  boys  are  still  in  the  house  with  me.  The 
eldest  is  advancing  both  in  Latin  and  Greek  exceed- 
ingly well,  by  the  assistance  of  one  of  the  ushers  of 
the  Soho  Academy ;  and  the  other  goes  on  in  Latin 
with  him  during  this  hard  weather,  but  next  week  I 
am  to  send  him  again  to  that  academy.  I  am  sensi- 
ble that  it  is  a  great  disadvantage  to  them  to  be  under 
my  roof,  as  I  am  so  much  abroad  ;  and  then  they  must 
be  with  my  Scotch  housekeeper  and  footman,  whom 
I  yet  retain  on  account  of  their  fidelity  and  moderate 
wages,  but  I  am  afraid  to  send  my  eldest  to  a  public 


PROGRESS  OF  THE  '  LIFE  OF  JOHNSON/    269 

school  with  his  rupture ;  the  younger  I  shall  send  to 
one  when  he  is  a  year  older. 

I  am  now  very  near  my  rough  draught  of  Johnson's 
Life.  On  Saturday  I  finished  the  Introduction  and 
Dedication  to  Sir  Joshua,  both  of  which  had  appeared 
very  difficult  to  be  accomplished.  I  am  confident  they 
are  well  done.  Whenever  I  have  completed  the  rough 
draught,  by  which  I  mean  the  work  without  nice  cor- 
rection, Malone  and  I  are  to  prepare  one-half  per- 
fectly, and  then  it  goes  to  press,  where  I  hope  to  have 
it  early  in  February,  so  as  to  be  out  by  the  end  of 
May.  I  do  not  believe  that  Malone's  Shakespeare  will 
be  much  before  me  :  his  brother,  Lord  Sunderlin,  with 
his  Lady  and  two  sisters,  came  home  from  a  long 
tour  on  the  Continent  in  summer  last,  and  took  a 
country-house  about  twenty  miles  from  town,  for  six 
months.  Malone  lived  with  them,  and  so  his  labour 
was  much  intermitted. 

I  am  very  sorry  to  find  that  it  is  the  most  difficult 
thing  you  can  imagine,  to  get  a  boy,  not  the  son  of  a 
citizen,  into  Christ's  Hospital.  Miss  Palmer,  whom  I 
have  solicited,  cannot  do  it ;  and  I  am  sure  I  have  not 
a  tenth  part  of  that  kind  of  interest  which  is  required. 
You  must  think  of  something  else  for  your  nephew, 
and  pray  do  not  blame  me  if  I  recommend  aiming  at 
humble  situations.  It  is  impossible,  in  the  nature  of 
society,  that  every  branch  of  every  creditable  family 
can  have  that  preference  to  others  from  generation  to 
generation. 

As  to  the  Archbishop  of  York,  I  had  a  letter  to  him 
from  Dr.  Ball,  one  of  his  particular  friends.  He  asked 


270  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

me  to  a  private  dinner ;  but  a  number  of  company 
came,  and  I  had  very  little  of  his  conversation,  for  he 
does  not  show  away  in  talk  at  his  table  upon  a  Sun- 
day. I  was  at  the  dinner  which  he  gives  in  form  to 
the  Judges  and  Counsel  on  the  Northern  Circuit,  and 
a  splendid  dinner  it  was ;  indeed  his  table  is  princely. 
In  the  evening,  departing,  he  whispered  to  me,  "  Don't 
go,  there's  a  bed  for  you."  So  I  and  Mr.  Law,  King's 
Counsel,  whose  brother  is  married  to  his  Lordship's 
eldest  daughter,  stayed.  His  Lordship  took  me  to  walk 
with  him  through  his  delightful  Seat,  and  was  quite 
easy :  his  conversation  turned  chiefly  on  British  anti- 
quities, in  which  he  seemed  to  be  deeply  versed ;  and 
he  said  a  good  deal  of  Scotland,  a  considerable  part  of 
which  he  had  seen  some  years  ago.  There  is  nothing 
of  the  pedagogue  or  the  high-priest  in  his  domestic 
behaviour  :  he  is  all  affability,  and  even  playfulness 
with  his  children.  I  believe  I  should  leave  a  card  at 
his  door  in  town  ;  I  will  do  it. 

As  to  my  canvass  in  my  own  county,  I  started  in 
opposition  to  a  junction  between  Lord  Eglintoun  and 
Sir  Adam  Fergusson,  who  were  violent  opponents,  and 
whose  coalition  is  as  odious  there,  as  the  Great  One 
is  to  the  nation.  A  few  friends  and  real  independent 
gentlemen  early  declared  for  me ;  three  other  noble 
lords,  the  Earls  of  Cassillis,  Glencairn,  and  Dumfries, 
have  lately  joined  and  set  up  a  nephew  of  the  Earl  of 
Cassillis.  A  Mr.  John  Whitefoord,  who  as  yet  stands 
as  I  do,  will,  I  understand,  make  a  bargain  with  this 
last  alliance.  Supposing  he  does,  the  two  great  parties 
will  be  so  poised  that  I  shall  have  it  in  my  power  to 


ATTEMPT    AT    PARLIAMENT.  271 

cast  the  balance.  If  they  are  so  piqued  that  either 
will  rather  give  the  seat  to  me  than  be  beaten  by  the 
other,  I  may  have  it.  Thus  I  stand,  and  I  shall  be 
firm.  Should  Lord  Lonsdale  give  me  a  seat  he  would 
do  well,  but  I  have  no  claim  upon  him  for  it. 

General  Paoli's  steady  kindness  is  indeed  highly  to 
be  valued. 

I  have  said  nothing  about  the  Regency,  because 
you  have  it  all  in  the  newspapers.  (Pray,  which  do 
you  read  ?)  Do  you  know  I  was  at  first  carried  away 
with  the  notion  of  the  right  having  devolved  to  the 
Prince,  and  had  almost  written  one  of  my  very  warm 
popular  pamphlets  for  it ;  *  but  Lord  Lonsdale  having 
been  taken  ill  with  a  feverish  disorder,  from  which  he 
is  not  yet  quite  free,  so  that  I  have  not  yet  seen  him 
for  five  weeks,  so  as  to  know  his  sentiments,  I  pru- 
dently refrained,  and  have  become  satisfied  that  I  was 
wrong;  for  there  is  a  King,  though  his  faculties  be 
suspended.  Pitt  has  behaved  very  ill  in  his  neglect 
of  me.  I  now  think  Dundas  a  sad  fellow  in  his  pri- 
vate capacity ;  he  has  used  honest  David  cruelly.  I 
breakfasted  today  with  Hawkins ;  he  is,  I  believe,  a 
good  man,  but  mean  for  a  man  of  his  fortune.  We 
depend  on  your  coming  to  London  in  April  or  May ; 
it  will  be  impossible  to  bear  another  disappointment. 
Write  soon  to  your  ever  affectionate 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 

*  Kef  erring  probably  to  the  two .  political  '  Letters  to  the  People 
of  Scotland'  which  had  appeared  five  or  six  years  before. 


272 


CHAPTER  XIV. 

1789. 

ILLNESS  OF  MRS.  BOSWELL. — SOCIETY  OF  THE  NORTHERN  CIR- 
CUIT.  BOSWELL  "ROASTED." 'QUARE  ADHjESIT  PAVIMENTO?' 

— HAWKINS. DR.  PARR. COLLECTS  AND  PUBLISHES  WAR- 

BURTON'S  JUVENILE  WORKS.  —  HURD. — PUBLIC  AFFAIRS. — 
PITT'S  ILL-USAGE  OF  BOSWELL. — HIS  WIFE. — BARTHELEMY's 
'VOYAGE  EN  GRECE.' MCEURS  DBS  GRECS. STORY  OF  AN  AP- 
PARITION.—  COURTENAY.  —  SIR  JOHN  HAWKINS. — JEALOUSY 
OF  DR.  JOHNSON'S  BIOGRAPHERS. — MRS.  BOSWELL'S  ILLNESS 
INCREASES. — DUNDAS. — PITT'S  "  FOLLY." — DISAPPOINTMENT 
OF  BOSWELL. — BOSWELL  MEDITATES  AN  ATTACK  UPON  PITT. 

BOSWELL,  it  would  seem,  was  now  "  hovering"  about 
the  legal  quarters,  not  with  great  hopes  of  business,  but 
in  some  expectation  of  a  place  which,  as  a  barrister, 
he  might  hold.  What  were  Boswell's  feelings  at  Mr. 
Pitt's  "  unwise"  conduct,  in  neglecting  to  meet  Bos- 
well's  wishes,  will  be  seen  in  the  following  letter. 

Legal  society,  it  is  clear,  had  no  great  charm  for 
Boswell.  His  was  just  the  character  which  laid  him 
open  to  Circuit  satire,  and  the  unsparing  jocularity 
of  the  Bar  mess.  It  is  said,  by  those  experienced 
in  the  subject,  that  when  the  members  of  some  Cir- 
cuits unbend  in  conviviality,  and  "  mirth  and  jollity" 


THE    ENGLISH    BAR.  273 

take  the  place  of  grave  argument  and  subtle  advo- 
cacy, an  uninitiated  spectator  would  think  that  he  had 
fallen  into  the  society  of  collegians  or  even  of  school- 
boys in  disguise,  and  he  would  see  the  weaknesses 
and  peculiarities  of  the  different  members  treated  with 
all  the  wit  and  freedom  which  are  claimed  to  be  ex- 
ercised by  the  youthful  and  scholastic  public.  What 
were  the  particular  points  in  the  Circuit  life  of  the 
last  century  which  Boswell  found  so  disagreeable  to 
his  feelings  it  would  be  impossible  to  inquire ;  but 
doubtless  the  conceited,  vain,*  or  presumptuous  mem- 
ber would  have  found  small  sympathy  there ;  and  if 
such  a  one  aspired  to  a  position  amongst  his  brethren 
of  the  Mess,  which  he  could  not  successfully  maintain, 
he  would  probably  have  to  submit  to  mortifying  joke 
and  banter.  One  may  also  conclude,  perhaps,  that 
deference  to  mere  reputation  and  veneration  for  the 
adherent  of  fine  society  were  never  leading  attributes 
of  the  Circuit  Bar  in  their  social  hours.  From  what- 
ever causes  it  may  have  arisen,  Boswell  at  all  events, 
on  several  occasions,  expressed  no  great  liking  for  the 
conduct  of  his  professional  brethren ;  and  his  enter- 
ing himself  at  the  English  Bar  contributed  less  to  his 
pleasure  and  profit  than  even  his  Scotch  practice. 

The  failing  health  of  his  wife,  and  his  labours  at  his 
mof/num  opus,  occupy  for  some  time  much  of  Boswell's 
anxious  thoughts, 


*  "  Bumptious"  is  a  term  which  the  next  edition  of  Dr.  John' 
sou's  Dictionary  inevitably  must  contain. 

T 


274  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

71.]  London,  16^  February,  1789. 

My  dear  Temple, 

I  am  longing  much  to  hear  from  you.  My  wife  has 
had  a  return  of  her  asthmatic  fever,  but  it  has  not 
continued  so  long,  or  with  such  alarming  symptoms, 
as  it  did  when  it  seized  her  the  three  last  winters ; 
but  still  you  may  imagine  that  I  am  not  easy,  being 
at  this  distance  from  her,  and  her  state  of  health  so 
uncertain.  My  eldest  son  advances  exceedingly  well 
both  in  Latin  and  Greek,  under  the  private  tuition  of 
one  of  the  ushers  of  the  Soho  Academy,  to  which  my 
youngest  now  goes.  I  am  resolved  to  send  him,  when 
he  is  twelve,  either  to  Eton  or  Westminster.  When 
you  come  we  shall  confer  as  to  that  question.  My 
book  is  now  very  near  the  conclusion  of  the  rough 
draft.  I  hesitate  as  to  going  the  Spring  Northern 
Circuit,  which  costs  £50,  and  obliges  me  to  be  in 
rough,  unpleasant  company  four  weeks.*  I  wish  to 
keep  hovering  as  an  English  lawyer,  for  I  much,  much 
fear  that  now  I  should  be  more  unhappy  than  ever  in 
Scotland.  Hawkins  and  I  got  into  good  social  plight 
this  winter;  I  dined  at  his  house  one  day  with  the 
Hon.  and  Rev.  William  Stuart,  and  they  dined  at 
mine  a  few  days  after,  and  we  were  exceedingly  well. 

*  There  can  be  no  doubt,  as  has  been  hinted  at  in  the  beginning 
of  the  Chapter,  that  Boswell's  peculiarities  laid  him  open  to  be  what 
is  termed  "roasted"  somewhat  by  the  Circuit  wits,  who  were,  if 
tradition  may  be  trusted,  somewhat  more  "  rough"  in  their  humour 
than  they  are  at  the  present  day.  Possibly  also  Boswell  may  have 
been  thinking  of  the  "  motion,"  quare  adlicetit  pavimento,  which  he 
made  in  court,  upon  sham  instructions  emanating  from  the  convivi- 
ality of  the  mess-table. 


LITERARY    AND    POLITICAL    SQUABBLES.          275 

There  is  just  come  out  a  publication  which  makes  a 
considerable  noise,  and  which  will  interest  you  parti- 
cularly. The  celebrated  Dr.  Parr  of  Norwich,  author  of 
the  extraordinary  Preface  to  Bellendenus,*  has- — wick- 
edly, shall  we  say  ? — but  surely  wantonly — collected 
and  published  Warburton's  Juvenile  Translations  and 
Discourse  on  Prodigies,  and  Bishop  Kurd's  attacks  on 
Jortin  and  Dr.  Thomas  Leland  with  his  '  Essay  on  the 
Delicacy  of  Friendship.'  The  sheets  will  require  ten 
franks,  which  would  be  too  many  at  a  time ;  they  shall 
come  gradually.  By  this  post  I  send  you  Parr's  two 
Prefaces  and  Dedication,  in  which  you  will  find  ardentia 
verba  indeed,  and  uncommon  keenness  of  severity  to 
Hurd,  such  as  cannot  be  justified  unless  great  pro- 
vocation has  been  given.  Public  affairs  are  in  a  very 
dubious  situation.  I  really  do  believe  the  King  will 
recover ;  and  I  am  told  that  neither  the  Duke  of  Port- 
land nor  Mr.  Fox  will  accept  of  any  part  in  an  Admi- 
nistration which  is  not  likely  to  be  permanent.  I  be- 
gin now  to  think  that  whatever  Administration  should 
appoint  you  and  me  to  good  places  would  be  the  best. 
Lord  Lonsdale  is  not  yet  out  of  his  room,  but  I  see 
his  members  are  in  opposition.  Pitt  (probably  influ- 
enced by  Dundas)  has  used  me  very  ill ;  but  I  yet 

*  It  is  in  this  preface  that  the  "  tria  lumina  Anglorum" — Lord 
North,  Fox,  and  Burke — are  bepraised.  The  republications  men- 
tioned above  by  Boswell  were  issued  by  Dr.  Pan'  from  his  spite  to 
Dr.  Hurd.  The  literary  and  ecclesiastical  scandals  referred  to  in  this 
letter  will  be  found  in  the  respective  biographies  of  the  worthy 
divines  whose  names  are  here  connected  with  the  disputation. 

T    2 


LETTERS    OF    BO  SWELL. 

cannot  relish  the  Coalition,  especially  that  worthless 
minister,  Lord  North.  Nous  verrons. 

Let  me  know  when  you  are  to  be  in  town;  re- 
member it  will  not  be  possible  to  bear  another  disap- 
pointment. Lord  Eliot  is  vastly  well ;  we  have  dined 
together  several  times  at  the  Literary  Club,  at  Sir 
Joshua's,  and  at  Mr.  Metcalfe's.  Why  does  not  his 
Lordship  keep  house  here  ?  I  am  told  that,  like  my- 
self, though  living  in  company,  he  is  subject  to  de- 
pression of  spirits,  which  makes  any  task,  even  that  of 
entertainment  of  one's  friends,  a  burden.  I  have  had 
only  one  splendid  dinner  in  my  small  house  here,  the 
Bishop  of  Killaloe,  Sir  Joshua,  Windham,  etc.  etc. 

My  best  compliments  to  Mrs.  Temple,  and  love  to 

the  children. 

Ever  most  affectionately  yours, 

J.  B. 


72.]  London,  IQtk  March,  1789. 

My  dear  Temple, 

David  has  found  a  Bipontine  Ammianus  Marcel- 
linus,  in  two  volumes,  but  without  notes.  Let  him 
know  if  he  should  buy  it  for  you. 

Since  I  wrote  last,  I  have  had  two  letters  from  my 
wife,  which  gave  me  rather  better  hopes ;  but  by  a 
letter  which  I  have  today  from  a  relation,  she  is  cer- 
tainly very  ill,  having  a  severe  cough,  sweatings,  and 
swelled  legs.  She  has  indeed  had  all  these  alarming 
symptoms  before,  and  has  recovered ;  but  frequent  re- 
lapses make  her  situation  more  dangerous.  I  wait 


ILLNESS    OF    MRS.    BOSWELL.  277 

with  anxiety  for  a  letter  from  a  physician  to  whom  I 
have  written  to  see  her,  as  if  on  a  visit  of  compliment 
(for  she  will  not  have  one  to  attend  her,  thinking  it  of 
no  use),  and  to  send  me  a  fair,  explicit  report.  If  he 
thinks  her  in  immediate  danger,  I  will  go  down  di- 
rectly, and  take  Veronica  with  me,  and  perhaps  the 
two  boys  also,  that  she  may  be  soothed  with  all  the 
comfort  they  can  give  her,  which  she  surely  deserves, 
as  she  has  been  the  most  affectionate  mother.  You 
will  perceive  in  what  a  state  of  mind  I  must  be  at 
present.  Yet,  as  London  is  the  best  place  when  one 
is  happy,  it  is  equally  so  when  one  is  the  reverse ;  for 
the  power  of  being  at  once  wrapped  up  in  undisturbed 
privacy,  by  not  being  personally  known,  and  having 
an  influx  of  various  ideas,  by  being  in  the  midst  of 
multitudes,  cannot  fail  to  dissipate  many  a  cloud  which 
would  thicken  and  augment  and  press  upon  the 
spirits  in  the  country,  or  in  a  narrower  place.  This 
day,  for  instance,  I-  shall  rove  about  the  cities  of  Lon- 
don and  Westminster  in  the  evening  to  contemplate 
the  illuminations  on  his  Majesty's  recovery.  General 
Paoli  kindly  entertains  me  and  Veronica  and  my  sons, 
and  honest  David,  at  dinner,  and  we  shall  thus  be 
enlivened.  Is  it  not  true  philosophy,  my  friend,  to 
procure  as  much  happiness,  to  make  as  much  honey 
in  life,  as  we  can?  I  mean,  in  consistency  with 
all  duties. 

Should  I  be  obliged  to  go  to  Scotland,  you  must 
delay  your  visit  to  town  till  I  can  meet  you.  An  in- 
terview after  so  long  an  absence  will  be  very  valuable. 


278  LETTERS    OF    BOS  WELL. 

The  General's  carriage  is  to  be  here  soon,  so  I  must 
hasten  to  dress.  I  shall  soon  write  to  you  as  to  the 
particulars  in  your  last  letters. 

My  best  compliments  to  Mrs.  Temple.     Long  may 
she  be  a  comfort  to  you  !     Love  to  your  family. 
I  am  ever 

Most  affectionately  yours, 

J.  B. 


73.]  London,  Mh  March,  1789. 

My  dear  Temple, 

Eor  some  days  past  I  have  been  in  such  an  anxious 
and  distracted  state,  by  the  sad  accounts  that  came  to 
me  of  my  wife's  having  had  repeated  returns  of  her 
distressing  complaint,  that  I  have  not  been  able  to 
answer  your  two  last  letters,  for  I  had  resolved  to  set 
out  instantly  for  Auchinleck.  Another  letter  from  her, 
and  one  from  my  second  daughter,  who  is  with  her, 
have  made  me  a  little  easier,  and  I  wait  for  further 
accounts,  having  written  to  her  physician  in  the  coun- 
try to  send  me  a  fair  and  explicit  state.  It  vexes  me 
to  think  that  I  should  appear  neglectful  of  so  valuable 
and  affectionate  a  wife  and  mother,  by  being  here ;  but 
God  knows  how  sincerely  and  tenderly  I  regard  her. 
The  asthmatic  complaints  with  which  she  is  afflicted 
made  it  advisable  for  her  to  pass  this  winter  in  the 
country.  I  could  not  stay  there  without  stopping 
what  has  already  been  delayed  too  long, — the  comple- 
tion of  my  '  Life  of  Johnson,'  and  taking  myself  out 


FOREIGN    CONTEMPORARY    LITERATURE.  279 

of  the  great  wheel  of  the  Metropolis,  from  which  I  do 
hope  that  in  time  I  shall  have  a  capital  prize. 

Whatever  then  I  at  times  may  feel,  my  reason  ac- 
quits me  from  any  blame  in  this  separation.  Comfort 
and  encourage  me,  my  dear  friend :  you  do  it  better 
than  anybody.  In  your  last  long  letter,  you  have 
poured  balm  upon  my  sore  mind.  I  indeed  must  ac- 
knowledge that,  owing  to  the  melancholy  which  ever 
lurks  about  me,  I  am  too  dissipated,  and  drink  too 
much  wine.  These  circumstances  I  must  restrain,  as 
well  as  I  can. 

This  is  to  be  a  short  letter,  of  which  you  will  be  so 
good  as  to  accept,  till  I  am  more  at  leisure  and  more 
calm. 

I  never  look  at  the  foreign  publications,  which  I  am 
sensible  is  wrong.  Courtenay  knows  them  all,  I  think. 
'  Florier'  is  not  worth  your  buying,  nor  'Joseph.'  In- 
deed all  your  '  Abels,'  and  such  works,  I  should  guess 
are  fit  only  for  milk-and-water  minds.  Barthelemy's 
'Voyage  en  Grece,'  Courtenay  says,  is  an  admirable 
book.  The  Younger  Anacharsis  is  supposed  to  travel 
through  that  celebrated  country  when  at  its  best,  and 
is  made  to  give  an  account  of  whatever  an  intelligent 
traveller  would  observe,  and  this  not  fancifully,  for  the 
authorities  of  the  most  faithful  writers  are  quoted  at 
the  bottom  of  the  page.  The  Chevalier  Ramsay  has 
written  his  'Voyages  de  Cyrus'  (which  I  have  read) 
upon  the  same  plan.  David,  with  his  usual  activity 
and  prudence,  has  both  seen  the  book  (which  consists 
of  several  volumes,  besides  a  volume  of  maps)  and  sug- 


280  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

gested  that  you  should  first  be  informed  it  is  pretty 
dear, — under  £3  however, — that  you  may  consider. 
Courtenay  commends  much  '  Mceurs  des  Grecs,'  by 
Peur,  the  author  of  '  Recherches  sur  les  Americains.' 
Will  you  have  this  too  ? 

Your  story  of  the  apparition  is,  truly  enough,  "  to 
give  us  pause."  I  myself  am  much  inclined  to  be- 
lieve it ;  I  am  never  startled  by  the  why,  because  that 
may  be  objected  to  thousands  and  thousands  of  facts 
which,  in  this  world  of  mystery,  we  are  sure  have  hap- 
pened. Malone  and  Sir  Joshua  will  not  believe  it; 
they  very  erroneously,  I  think,  maintain  that  suppo- 
sing the  appearance,  or  imagination,  or  whatever  else 
it  may  be  called,  and  also  the  corresponding  death  of 
Mr.  Winyard,  to  be  ascertained,  there  may  have  been 
only  coincidence.  Courtenay  (though  an  unbeliever  in 
our  Ilevelation)  admits  that,  if  the  two  facts  be  ascer- 
tained, there  may  have  been  a  supernatural  influence ; 
he  lays  much  stress  upon  the  officers  at  the  Mess  hav- 
ing laughed  at  Sherbrook  and  Winyard  for  months,  as 
undoubted  evidence  that  they  saw  the  apparition  at 
the  time  mentioned ;  but  he  requires  proof  that  they 
were  laughed  at.  It  is  well  known  how  people  exag- 
gerate and  vary  accounts.  Johnson  taught  me  to  cross- 
question  in  common  life.  I  really  think  the  story  de- 
serves to  be  thoroughly  examined.  Where  is  Win- 
yard  ?  Where  are  the  officers  who  ridiculed  him  and 
Sherbrook  at  the  Mess  ? 

Adieu  for  the  present,  my  dear  Temple !  I  hold 
myself  in  readiness  to  set  out  for  Scotland  in  case  of 


ILL    FEELINGS    TOWARDS    HAWKINS.  281 

worse  accounts.  Why  is  this  melancholy  circumstance 
in  the  lot  of  my  family  ?  Cm  bono  ?  I  adore,  and  re- 
verently wait  for  more  light,  Write  to  David  about 
your  books,  in  case  I  should  be  gone ;  but  pray  give 
me  some  kind  communications.  I  like  your  sitting  up 
and  writing  to  me  when  your  wife  and  daughter  were 
at  the  assembly ;  we  are  not  quite  young  now. 
I  ever  am  most  affectionately  yours, 

J.  B. 

P.S. — Pray,  by  return  of  post  help  me  with  a  word. 
In  censuring  Mr.  J.  Hawkins's  book  I  say,  "  There  is 
throughout  the  whole  of  it  a  dark,  uncharitable  cast, 
which  puts  the  most  unfavourable  construction  on  my 
illustrious  friend's  conduct."  Malone  maintains  cast 
will  not  'do ;  he  will  have  '  malignancy.'  Is  that  not 
too  strong?  how  would  'disposition'  do? 

I  have  the  pleasure  to  tell  you  that  a  part  of  my 
magnum  opus  is  now  ready  for  the  press,  and  that  I 
shall  probably  begin  to  print  next  week.  By  all  means 
call  Lowther  my  patron.  May  he  be  so  more  and 
more ! 

Hawkins  is  no  doubt  very  malevolent.  Observe  how 
he  talks  of  me  as  quite  unknown. 


Between  Sir  John  Hawkins  and  Boswell  (although 
we  have  just  seen  that  they  dined  at  each  other's 
houses  and  were  ostensibly  on  good  terms)  there  ex- 
isted great  jealousy ;  and  Boswell's  ill-feeling  towards 
his  rival  is  frequently  exhibited  in  the  '  Life  of  John- 


282  LETTERS    OF    BOS  WELL. 

son.'  The  passage  cited  in  the  above  Postscript  was 
retained  in  the  book  unaltered,  and  will  be  found  at 
the  commencement  of  the  Biography. 

With  respect  to  Boswell's  annoyance  at  Hawkins's 
talking  of  him  as  quite  unknown,  there  is  an  anecdote 
related*  which  is  a  very  proper  pendant  to  his  com- 
plaint, and  which  makes  poor  BoswelTs  position  appear 
still  more  ridiculous. 

"My  father  and  Boswell,"  says  Miss  Hawkins, 
"  grew  a  little  acquainted ;  and  when  the  Life  of  their 
friend  came  out,  Boswell  showed  himself  very  uneasy 
under  an  injury  which  he  was  much  embarrassed  in 
defining.  He  called  on  my  father,  and,  being  admitted, 
complained  of  the  manner  in  which  he  was  enrolled 
amongst  Johnson's  friends,  which  was  as  '  Mr.  James 
Boswell  of  Anchinleck.'  Where  was  the  offence  ?  It 
was  one  of  those  which  a  complainant  hardly  dares  to 
embody  in  words :  he  would  only  repeat,  '  Well,  but 
Mr.  James  Boswell!  surely,  surely,  Mr.  James  Boswell /' 
'I  know,'  said  my  father,  'Mr.  Boswell,  what  you 
mean ;  you  would  have  had  me  say,  that  Johnson 
undertook  this  tour  with  The  Boswell.'  He  could  not 
indeed  absolutely  covet  this  mode  of  proclamation  ;  he 
would  perhaps  have  been  content  with  '  the  celebrated' 
or  the  '  well-known/  but  he  could  not  confess  quite  so 
much ;  he  therefore  acquiesced  in  the  amendment  pro- 
posed, but  he  was  forced  to  depart  without  any  pro- 
mise of  correction  in  a  subsequent  edition." 

The  Reader  will  remember,  that,  having  attacked 

*  See  anecdotes  by  Miss  Hawkins  in  '  Johnsoniana.' 


BOZZY    AND    PIOZZI.  283 

Sir  John  Hawkins  in  the  beginning  of  the  '  Life/ 
Boswell  next  proceeds  to  detract  from  another  rival, 
Mrs.  Piozzi. 

It  was  this  mutual  jealousy  of  the  rival  biographers 
of  Dr.  Johnson,  which  formed  the  subject  of  Peter 
Pindar's  burlesque  entitled  "  Bozzy  and  Piozzi,"  a  pair 
of  twin  Eclogues.  It  could  not  have  tended  to  recon- 
cile the  various  parties  to  these  quarrels  to  read  the 
bitter  Peter's  account  of  the  disputes  or  the  disputants. 
The  lady  and  gentleman  are,  for  example,  thus  cruelly 
introduced  for  the  purpose  of  ridicule : — 

"  At  length  rushed  forth  two  candidates  for  fame, 
A  Scotchman  one,  and  one  a  London  dame ; 
That,  by  the  emphatic  Johnson  christened  Bozzy  ; 
This,  by  the  bishop's  license,  Dame  Piozzi." 


74.]  London,  16^  March,  1789. 

My  dear  Temple, 

Except  joining  with  David  in  thinking  that  you  had 
better  wait  a  little  longer  and  get  Parr's  publication 
for  nothing,  this  letter  is  to  be  solely  about  the 
Apparition.  Courtenay  and  Langton  are  just  gone 
from  me,  after  considering  your  very  distinct  and  fair 
statement.  Courtenay  is  very  much  impressed.  He 
evades  the  story  of  Lord  Lyttleton,  by  alleging  that 
his  Lordship  grew  more  and  more  frightened,  as  the 
predicted  time  approached,  and  in  a  panic  swallowed 
some  medical  tincture  so  hastily  as  to  be  choked  by 
it,  before  his  servant,  who  had  stepped  out  of  the  room, 
was  returned  :  as  to  that,  I  must  inquire.  Courtenay 


284  LETTERS    OF    BOS  WELL. 

will  be  obliged  to  you  if  you  can  ascertain  the  day  (for 
hour  and  minute  are  too  precise)  on  which  the  appear- 
ance was  seen  by  Sherbrook  and  Winyard.  Was  it 
perfectly  recollected  by  the  other  officers  to  coincide 
with  the  very  day  of  Winyard's  brother's  death  ?  And 
Langton  having  suggested  that  it  is  possible  there 
may  be  a  jesting  concert  to  have  a  regimental  ghost, 
Courtenay  also  begs  that  you,  in  whose  opinion  he  will 
have  confidence,  may,  upon  strict  attention,  say  if  you 
have  the  least  suspicion  that  the  officers  mean  to  join 
in  such  an  imposition.  For  my  own  part,  I  have  no 
difficulty  in  believing  the  story  to  be  supernaturally 

true. 

I  am  ever  most  affectionately  yours, 

J.  B. 

P.S. — Did  I  mention  that  the  physician  wrote  to  me 
that  my  wife  was  rather  easier  ?  But  no  letters  for  some 
days,  and  several  dreams,  distress  me. 


75.]  Tendon,  Slst  March,  1789. 

My  dear  Temple, 

Your  last  confirms  me  still  more  as  to  the  story  of 
the  apparition.  But  I  have  not  yet  waited  on  Mr. 
Winyard ;  for,  alas  !  my  dear  friend,  I  have  received 
very  alarming  accounts  of  the  distress  which  my  wife 
suffers,  both  in  a  letter  from  the  physician  and  in  one 
from  herself.  Her  expression  is,  "  My  fever  still  con- 
tinues, and  I  waste  away  daily."  I  have  been  in 
wretched  agitation  since  the  day  before  yesterday,  when 


DEPARTURE  FOR  SCOTLAND.          285 

such  melancholy  information  reached  me.  It  is  pos- 
sible that  a  return  of  mild  weather  may  relieve  her,  as 
has  happened  several  times ;  but  we  cannot  be  igno- 
rant that  each  repeated  attack  makes  her  less  able  to 
recover;  and  supposing  that  now  the  disease  should 
increase,  and,  as  sometimes  happens,  should  take  a 
rapid  course,  she  may  be  carried  off  while  I  am  four 
hundred  miles  from  her.  The  alternative  is  dreadful ; 
and  though  she,  with  admirable  generosity,  bids  me 
not  be  in  a  haste  to  leave  London  (knowing  my  ex- 
treme fondness  for  it),  I  should  have  a  heart  as  hard 
as  a  stone  were  I  to  remain  here;  and  should  the  fatal 
event  happen  in  my  absence,  I  should  have  a  just 
upbraiding  gloom  upon  my  mind  for  the  rest  of  my 
life.  I  have  therefore  resolved  to  set  out  early,  the 
day  after  tomorrow,  and  take  Veronica  with  me.  I  do 
this  with  the  entire  approbation  of  Mrs.  Stevenson, 
mistress  of  the  boarding-school,*  who  said  to  me,  "  It 
is  a  case  not  to  be  reasoned  upon."  I  would  fain  hope 
that  the  consolation  and  amusement  of  my  company 
and  that  of  our  Queen  Square  daughter,  will,  with  the 
advance  of  the  season,  restore  her  to  tolerable  health ; 
and  then  I  shall  return  to  town  to  go  forward  with  my 
great  work.  In  the  meantime,  as  we  have  of  late,  my 
old  and  most  intimate  friend,  corresponded  more  fre- 
quently, pray  let  us  continue  to  do  so.  Your  letters, 

*  This  Queen  Square  boarding-school,  which  was  at  one  time  so 
fashionable  and  famous  as  to  be  termed  the  "  Ladies'  Eton,"  having 
survived  for  nearly  a  century,  has  been  finally  closed  within  the  last 
year  or  two. 


286  LETTERS   OF    BOSWELL. 

under  Mr.  Garforth's  cover,  will  be  punctually  for- 
warded. You  nmst  not  on  any  account  come  to 
London  till  I  am  there  to  meet  you,  which  I  flatter 
myself  will  be  about  the  middle  of  May.  It  is  ne- 
cessary for  me,  if  possible,  to  be  back  by  the  25th  of 
May,  to  appear  as  Recorder  of  Carlisle  in  a  Cause  in 
the  King's  Bench.  Pray  let  me  have  your  fervent 
prayers  for  my  wife's  recovery.  How  much  do  I  long 
to  see  you ! 

I  unexpectedly  met  Nichols  last  Wednesday  at  a 
club  at  the  Blenheim  Tavern,  Bond  Street,  of  which  I 
am  an  honorary  member.  We  were  civil  to  each  other. 
I  have  not  seen  Jerningham's  '  Enthusiasm,'  but  I  shall 
look  at  it. 

Do  not  tell  worthy  David  that  I  mentioned  parti- 
culars ;  but  ask  him,  as  from  yourself,  what  they  are  : 
I  having  complained  to  you  that  Dundas  has  not 
behaved  well  to  him.  The  fact  is,  on  David's  being 
obliged  to  quit  Spain  on  account  of  the  war,  Dundas 
promised  to  my  father  that  he  would  give  him  an  office. 
Some  time  after  my  father's  death,  Dundas  renewed 
the  assurance  to  me  in  strong  terms,  and  told  me  he 
had  said  to  Lord  Caermarthen,  "  It  is  a  deathbed  pro- 
mise, and  I  must  fulfil  it."  Yet  David  has  now  been 
kept  waiting  above  eight  years,  when  he  might  have 
established  himself  again  in  trade,  and,  notwithstanding 
Dundas's  exorbitant  power,  has  got  no  employment, 
though  he  is  an  intelligent,  accurate,  worthy  man,  and 
has  declared  his  willingness  to  accept  of  any  situation 
in  any  department.  This  is  cruel  usage.  The  patient 


UNWISE    NEGLECT    BY    MR.  PITT.  287 

firmness  with  which  David  behaves  is  very  respectable. 
He  is  right  in  persevering,  so  as  to  leave  Dundas  no 
excuse  for  not  keeping  his  word. 

As  to  myself,  Dundas,  though  he  pledged  himself  (as 
the  modern  phrase  is)  to  assist  me  in  advancing  in 
promotion,  and  though  he  last  year  assured  me,  upon 
his  honour,  that  my  letter  concerning  the  Scotch  Judges 
had  made  no  difference ;  yet,  except  when  I  in  a  man- 
ner compelled  him  to  dine  with  me  last  winter,  has 
entirely  avoided  me,  and  I  strongly  suspect  has  given 
Pitt  a  prejudice  against  me.  The  excellent  Langton 
says  it  is  disgraceful ;  it  is  utter  folly  in  Pitt  not  to 
reward  and  attach  to  his  Administration  a  man  of  my 
popular  and  pleasant  talents,  whose  merit  he  has  ac- 
knowledged in  a  letter  under  his  own  hand.  He  did 
not  answer  several  letters,  which  I  wrote  at  intervals, 
requesting  to  wait  upon  him ;  I  lately  wrote  to  him 
that  such  behaviour  to  me  was  certainly  not  generous. 
"  I  think  it  is  not  just,  and  (forgive  the  freedom)  I 
doubt  if  it  be  wise.  If  I  do  not  hear  from  you  in 
ten  days,  I  shall  conclude  that  you  are  resolved  to 
have  no  farther  communication  with  me ;  for  I  assure 
you,  Sir,  I  am  extremely  unwilling  to  give  you,  or  in- 
deed myself,  unnecessary  trouble."  About  two  months 
have  elapsed,  and  he  has  made  no  sign.  How  can  I 
still  delude  myself  with  dreams  of  rising  in  the  great 
sphere  of  life  ?  I  will  tell  you ;  Lord  Lonsdale,  who, 
when  he  pleases,  has  great  power  in  every  Adminis- 
tration, shows  me  more  and  more  regard;  and  Sir 
Michael  Le  Fleming,  Governor  Penn,  and  Colonel 


288  LETTERS   OF    BOSWELL. 

Lowther,  three  of  his  Members,  assure  me  that  he  will 
give  me  a  seat  in  Parliament  at  the  General  Election. 
I  do  not  reckon  upon  this,  but  the  peut-etre  is  ani- 
mating. 

I  cannot  help  thinking  with  you  that  Pitt  is  the 
ablest  and  most  useful  Minister  of  any  of  those  whom 
we  know ;  yet  I  am  not  sure  that  after  the  pericula 
which  should  give  caution,  others  (and  amongst  them 
Burke,  whom  I  visited  yesterday,  and  found  as  ably 
philosophical  in  political  disquisition  as  ever)  might 
not  do  as  well ;  and  if  he  has  treated  me  unjustly  in 
his  stewardship  for  the  public,  and  behaved  with  un- 
grateful insolence  to  my  patron,  who  first  introduced 
him  into  public  life,  may  I  not  warrantably  arraign 
many  articles,  and  great  ones  too,  in  his  conduct, 
which  I  can  attack  with  forcible  energy  ?  At  present 
I  keep  myself  quiet,  and  wait  till  we  see  how  things 
will  turn  out.  My  candidateship  in  my  own  County 
is  honourable,  though  I  am  between  two  great  parties, 
either  of  which  could  overwhelm  me,  but  perhaps  may 
rather  let  me  come  in,  by  bringing  me  in  apparently, 
than  be  defeated  by  its  opponent.  You  will  forgive  me 
for  all  this  egotism.* 

You  have  not  gratified  me  with  a  particular  account 
of  your  young  family,  which  pray  do.  I  am  vexed  that 
I  can  see  no  way  of  obtaining  the  presentation  to  the 
Hospital  for  your  nephew.  Do  you  not  think  that  the 

*  Those  who  are  experienced  in  election  manoeuvres  will  be  able 
to  understand  this  passage ;  unless  indeed  Keformed  Parliaments 
have  rendered  this  corrupt  science  obsolete. 


THE    GREAT    MAN    AT    A    DRAWING-ROOM.         289 

air  of  the  west  of  England  might  do  my  wife  good  ? 
but  I  fear  she  could  not  be  persuaded  to  leave  Auchin- 
leck.  How  different  are  she  and  I !  I  was  the  great 
man  (as  we  used  to  say)  at  the  late  Drawing-room,  in 
a  suit  of  imperial  blue  lined  with  rose-coloured  silk, 
and  ornamented  with  rich  gold- wrought  buttons.  What 
a  motley  scene  in  life ! 

I  leave  my  sons  in  the  house  here  with  the  old 
housekeeper  and  my  footman.  I  must  send  the  eldest 
from  home,  for  he  begins  to  oppose  me,  and  no  wonder. 

Adieu,  my  dear  Temple !  My  best  compliments  to 
Mrs.  Temple  and  all  your  family. 

I  am  ever, 

Most  affectionately  yours, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


o 


290 


CHAPTER  XV. 

1789. 

MRS.    BOSWELL'S    CASE    PRONOUNCED    HOPELESS.  —  SELF-RE- 
PROACHES.   PARLIAMENTARY    ASPIRATION. CHAIRMAN    OP 

QUARTER-SESSIONS. ADDRESS    TO    THE    PRINCE    OP   WALES. 

'  CONSPICUOUSNESS.' PITT.  —  DEATH     OP    MRS.     BOSWELL. 

FAMILY    PLANS. ELECTIONEERING. VISIT    TO    LORD    LONS- 

DALE. STRANGE      LOSS      OF     A     WIG. GLOOMY     CONDITION 

OF    MIND. — MYSTERIOUS    DISCOVERY    OF    THE    WIG. — MALONE 

REVISING    THE  'LIFE    OF   JOHNSON.' SIR   JOSHUA    REYNOLDS' 

BLINDNESS. BOSWELL'S     INCOME. VISIT     TO     ETON. —  PRO- 
GRESS   OF   THE  '  LIFE    OF   JOHNSON.' 

THE  illness  from  which  Mrs.  Boswell  had  been  suffer- 
ing terminated  fatally  during  the  absence  of  her  hus- 
band. The  following  letters  exhibit  in  curious  con- 
trast Boswell's  grief,  which  was  undoubtedly  genuine, 
and  the  littlenesses  and  vanity  which  unfortunately 
formed  part  of  his  nature.  The  nineteen  carriages, 
etc.  following  his  wife's  hearse  certainly  afforded  the 
mourning  husband  no  little  satisfaction. 

It  will  be  seen  how  grievously  Boswell's  conscience 
reproaches  him  when  he  reflects  on  his  convivial  dissi- 
pation during  his  wife's  illness.  His  penitence  seems 
also  not  a  little  excited,  when  he  remembers  the  in- 
convenience he  experiences  from  spraining  his  shoulder 
through  his  intoxication. 


DOMESTIC    GRIEFS.  291 

The  election  struggles  which  Bos  well  engaged  in 
were  unsuccessful,  and  the  only  preferment  he  obtained 
through  his  friends  was  the  Recordership  of  Carlisle. 
On  the  whole  this  portion  of  Boswell's  life  is  very 
melancholy:  it  is  a  record  of  domestic  misfortunes, 
broken  health,  and  disappointed  ambition ;  he  con- 
fesses that  it  has  been,  and  still  is,  his  great  object, 
that  his  Me  should  tell;  but  it  is  even  now  on  the 
wane,  and  nothing  yet  done  to  give  it  celebrity.  The 
Life  of  Dr.  Johnson,  however,  has  still  to  be  published. 

76.]  Lowther,  Mnd  May,  1789. 

My  dear  Temple, 

Time  and  place  should  be  indifferent  to  philosophy 
and  friendship  such  as  ours ;  yet  what  reason  have 
you  and  I  to  arrogate  to  ourselves  any  superiority  or 
peculiar  excellence.  Would  it  be  allowed  to  us  by 
others,  upon  a  perusal  of  our  correspondence  ?*  I  fear 
not.  There  is  however  a  benignant  principle  in  hu- 
man nature,  which  disposes  men  in  general  to  have  an 
irresistible  predilection  for  themselves,  and  all  that  is 
connected  with  them  as  participating  of  themselves. 
Every  man  has  a  particular  regard  for  his  own  person, 
be  it  what  it  may,  etc.  etc.  I  need  not  expand  the 
thought  ;  you  will  at  once  see  it  in  all  its  extent. 
This  introduction  arises  from  my  being  struck  so  as 
almost  to  laugh  by  myself,  at  the  strangeness  of  my 
having  delayed,  I  know  not  how,  day  after  day,  while 
at  Auchinleck,  to  answer  your  truly  kind  letter  of  26th 

*  This  question  the  reader  is  now  in  a  position  to  answer. 

u2 


292  LETTERS   OF    BOSWELL. 

April,  and  now  sitting  down  here  to  do  it  when  I  am 
upon  the  wing.* 

I  found  my  dear  wife  as  ill,  or  rather  worse  than  I 
apprehended.  The  consuming  hectic  fever  had  preyed 
upon  her  incessantly  during  the  winter  and  spring, 
and  she  was  miserably  emaciated  and  weak.  The 
physician  and  surgeon  apothecary,  whom  she  allows 
occasionally,  though  rarely,  to  visit  her,  told  me  fairly, 
as  to  a  man  able  to  support  with  firmness  what  they 
announced,  that  they  had  no  hopes  of  her  recovery, 
though  she  might  linger,  they  could  not  say  how  long, 
in  distress, — nay,  might  again,  as  formerly,  have  a  re- 
spite of  comparative  ease.  Oh,  rny  dear  old  friend, 
how  shocking  was  this  to  me  !  Alas  !  instead  of  having 
a  manly  firmness,  I  am  more  weak  and  effeminate  in 
mind  than  the  valuable  woman  herself.  Added  to  her 
other  complicated  complaints,  she  has  for  some  time 
had  a  most  afflicting  acidity  in  her  stomach,  so  that  she 
has  no  good  digestion,  but  everything  that  she  eats  and 
drinks  becomes  quite  acid,  and  thus  she  can  receive 
very  little  sustenance  ;  and  the  acrimony  is  such  as  to 
corrode  and  blister  her  tongue.  I  never  knew  any  one 
in  greater  distress,  except  one  gentleman,  who  died  of 
that  dreadful  disorder  a  cancer. 

She  goes  out  an  airing  in  the  carriage  every  day, 
which  for  about  three  hours  gives  her  some  relief; 
and  when  her  attention  is  taken  off  herself  by  family 
affairs,  nay  by  the  affairs  of  my  estate,  to  both  of 

*  The  sequence  of  Boswell's  ideas  in  this  paragraph  is  not  very 
obvious. 


SELF-REPROACHES.  293 

which  she  is  still  wonderfully  alive,  she  seems  to  be  a 
good  deal  better.  No  man  ever  had  a  higher  esteem 
or  a  warmer  love  for  a  wife  than  I  have  for  her.  You 
will  recollect,  my  Temple,  how  our  marriage  was  the  re- 
sult of  an  attachment  truly  romantic ;  yet  how  painful 
is  it  to  me  to  recollect  a  thousand  instances  of  incon- 
sistent conduct.  I  can  justify  my  removing  to  the  great 
sphere  of  England,  upon  a  principle  of  laudable  ambi- 
tion ;  but  the  frequent  scenes  of  what  I  must  call  disso- 
lute conduct  are  inexcusable;  and  often  and  often,  when 
she  was  very  ill,  in  London  have  I  been  indulging  in 
festivity  with  Sir  Joshua  Reynolds,  Courtenay,  Malone, 
etc.  etc.  etc.,  and  have  come  home  late  and  disturbed 
her  repose.  Nay,  when  I  was  last  at  Auchinleck,  on 
purpose  to  soothe  and  console  her,  I  repeatedly  went 
from  home ;  and  both  on  those  occasions,  and  when 
neighbours  visited  me,  drank  a  great  deal  too  much 
wine.  On  Saturday  last,  dining  at  a  gentleman's 
house,  where  I  was  visiting  for  the  first  time,  and  was 
eager  to  obtain  political  influence,  I  drank  so  freely, 
that,  riding  home  in  the  dark  without  a  servant,  I 
fell  from  my  horse  and  bruised  my  shoulder  severely. 
Next  morning  I  had  it  examined  by  a  surgeon,  who 
found  no  fracture  or  dislocation,  but  blooded  me  largely 
to  prevent  inflammation.  While  I  was  thus  confined  to 
bed,  came  a  letter  from  Colonel  Lowther,  one  of  Lord 
Lonsdale's  Members,  informing  me  that  his  Lordship 
would  set  out  for  London  as  soon  as  I  arrived  at  Low- 
ther, and  would  be  glad  to  have  my  company  in  the 
carriage  with  him.  I  expected  such  a  letter,  because 


294  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

I  was  engaged  to  appear  as  Recorder  of  Carlisle,  for 
the  Corporation,  in  a  Cause  brought  against  us  in  the 
King's  Bench,  which  I  knew  was  to  come  on  this 
month  or  early  in  June.  But  I  was  in  a  great  dilemma 
what  to  do.  I  was  afraid  I  should  not  be  able  to 
travel,  and  to  leave  my  wife  in  such  a  state  was  se- 
vere. She,  with  a  spirit  which  I  cannot  enough  ad- 
mire, animated  me  to  set  out,  which  I  accordingly  did, 
resolved  to  return  as  soon  as  the  business  was  over, 
and  bring  our  two  sons  with  me,  to  be  some  comfort 
to  her,  while  she  can  at  all  be  sensible  of  it.  His 
Lordship's  way]$>  exceedingly  dilatory,  so  that  we  have 
not  set  out  today  as  was  proposed,  and  perhaps  we 
may  not  go  for  a  day  or  two  longer.  I  philosophically 
resign  myself  to  what  may  happen ;  this  being  (as 
Governor  Penn,  the  American,  and  one  of  his  Mem- 
bers, and  a  sensible  worthy  fellow,  says)  a  school  of 
its  own  kind. 

My  shoulder  is  more  uneasy,  and  there  is  now  an 
extended  rheumatism  through  that  arm,  and  part  of 
the  breast  next  to  it,  which  I  feel  acutely,  while  I 
cannot  put  on  and  off  my  clothes  without  help.  But 
I  will  go  forward.  To  be  zealous  is,  with  justice,  a 
strong  recommendation ;  and  such  is  the  great  Parlia- 
mentary influence,  that,  be  the  Minister  who  will,  he 
may  when  he  pleases  get  almost  anything  for  a  friend. 
I  have  no  right  to  expect  that  he  will  give  me  a  seat 
in  Parliament,  but  I  shall  not  be  surprised  if  he  does. 
Entre  nous,  my  chance  for  representing  my  own  County 
is  very  small.  There  is  a  great  coalition  between  Lord 


ELECTIONEERING    POLITICS    AND    PITT.  295 

Eglintoun  and  Sir  Adain  Fergusson,  formed  and  sup- 
ported by  Dundas.  Against  that  there  are  three  can- 
didates ;  one  who  has  a  large  number  of  votes,  and 
two  of  us  who  have  each  such  a  number  that  he  can- 
not succeed  unless  we  both  join  him.  It  is  possible 
that,  by  remaining  firm,  there  may  be  such  a  throw  of 
the  dice,  or  such  a  junction,  that  I  may  be  a  Member 
at  least  for  a  part  of  the  Parliament.  Meantime,  know- 
ing my  small  chance,  I  spend  almost  nothing  in  elec- 
tioneering, yet  keep  up  a  spirited  appearance. 

At  our  last  general  Quarter-Sessions  I  was  appointed 
Chairman,  or  Prseses,  as  we  call  it.  I  proposed  and 
carried  an  Address  to  the  Prince  of  Wales,  which  I 
had  prepared,  expressing  a  grateful  sense  of  his  public 
conduct  with  regard  to  the  Regency.  You  will  allow, 
when  you  read  it,  that  I  have  been  very  happy  in 
wording  it,  so  as  all  fair  ones  must  approve  of  it ;  for 
truly  his  Royal  Highness  (as  far  as  we  have  a  right 
to  know)  behaved  admirably.  I  am  carrying  it  up, 
to  be  presented  by  the  Earl  of  Eglintoun,  accom- 
panied by  such  Justices  of  us  as  may  be  in  London. 
This  will  add  something  to  my  conspicuousness.  Will 
that  word  do  ?  As  to  Pitt,  he  is  an  insolent  fellow, 
but  so  able,  that  upon  the  whole  I  must  support  him 
against  the  Coalition ;  but  I  will  work  him,  for  he  has 
behaved  very  ill  to  me.  Can  he  wonder  at  my  wish- 
ing for  preferment,  when  men  of  the  first  family  and 
fortune  in  England  struggle  for  it  ?  We  shall  see ; 
meantime  the  attempt  rouses  my  spirits.  What  a 
state  is  my  present ! — full  of  ambition  and  projects 


296  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

to  attain  wealth  and  eminence,  yet  embarrassed  in 
my  circumstances,  and  depressed  with  family  distress, 
which  at  times  makes  everything  in  life  seem  indif- 
ferent. I  often  repeat  Johnson's  lines,  in  his  vanity 
of  human  wishes : — 

"  Shall  helpless  man,  in  ignorance  sedate, 
Roll  darkling  down  the  torrent  of  his  fate?" 

Your  account  of  your  young  family  pleases  me  much, 
while  I  am  at  the  same  time  struck  with  a  strange  me- 
mento how  old  we  now  are.  May  God  bless  them !  My 
heart,  and  that  of  my  dear  wife,  were  tenderly  touched 
with  the  very  affectionate  and  I  am  sure  sincere  offer 
of  accommodation  by  you  and  Mrs.  Temple ;  I  heartily 
wish  she  had  been  able  and  willing  to  accept  of  it ;  but 
home  is  her  delight  in  health,  and  solace  in  sickness ; 
she  has  nothing  of  my  roving  disposition,  who  may  very 
possibly  be  one  day  in  Asia.  You  have  told  me  that 
I  was  the  most  thinking  man  you  ever  knew  ;  it  is  cer- 
tainly so  as  to  my  own  life.  I  am  continually  con- 
scious, continually  looking  back,  or  looking  forward,  and 
wondering  how  I  shall  feel  in  situations  which  I  anti- 
cipate in  fancy.  My  journal  will  afford  materials  for 
a  very  curious  narrative.  I  assure  you  I  do  not  now 
live  with  a  view  to  have  surprising  incidents,  though 
I  own  I  am  desirous  that  my  life  should  tell. 

What  aid  can  my  wife  have  from  religion,  except  a 
pious  resignation  to  the  great  and  good  God  ?  for  in- 
deed she  is  too  shrewd  to  receive  the  common  topics : 
she  is  keen  and  penetrating.  Is  it  not  difficult  to 


DEATH    OF    MRS.    BOSWELL.  297 

guard  oneself  from  doubting  or  distrusting  in  some 
degree,  when  one  is  deeply  afflicted,  and  has  no  light 
in  prospect  ?  How  dismal,  how  affecting  is  it  to  me 
to  see  my  cousin,  my  friend,  my  wife  wasting  away 
before  my  eyes !  and  the  more  distressing  it  is,  that 
she  is  as  sensible  as  ever,  so  that  we  cannot  see  why 
this  is.  I  entreat  all  the  comfort  you  can  give.  Write 
to  me  in  London  directly. 

It  is  an  additional  vexation  that  my  great  Work 
must  be  suspended  for  some  time,  but  I  cannot  help 
it  now :  I  was  much  too  idle  and  dilatory  for  years.  I 
hope  in  the  course  of  the  winter  to  have  it  out. 

My  best  compliments  to  Mrs.  Temple,  and  love  to 
your  young  family. 

I  am  ever,  my  dear  friend, 

Yours  most  affectionately, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


77.]  AucUnleck,  3rd  July,  1789. 

My  dear  Temple, 

Your  letter  upon  my  most  severe  loss  proves  that 
you  are  now  the  same  steady,  warm-hearted  friend  I 
have  ever  known  you.  O  my  friend,  this  is  affliction 
indeed  !  My  two  boys  and  I  posted  from  London  to 
Auchinleck,  night  and  day,  in  sixty-four  hours  and  a 
quarter ;  but  alas !  our  haste  was  all  in  vain.  The 
fatal  stroke  had  taken  place  before  we  set  out.  It  was 
very  strange  that  we  had  no  intelligence  whatever  upon 


298  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

the  road,  not  even  in  our  own  parish,  nor  till  my  se- 
cond daughter  came  running  out  from  the  house,  and 
announced  to  us  the  dismal  event  in  a  burst  of  tears. 
O  my  Temple,  what  distress  !  what  tender  and  painful 
regrets !  what  unavailing,  earnest  wishes  to  have  but 
one  week,  one  day,  in  which  I  might  again  hear  her 
admirable  conversation,  and  assure  her  of  my  fervent 
attachment,  notwithstanding  all  my  irregularities.  It 
was  some  relief  to  me  to  be  told,  that  she  had,  after  I 
was  set  out,  mentioned  what  I  think  I  wrote  to  you, 
that  she  had  pressed  me  to  go  up  and  show  my  zeal 
for  Lord  Lonsdale;  but  when  on  my  return,  before 
the  Cause  came  on,  I  found  that  by  my  going  away  at 
that  unlucky  time  I  had  not  been  with  her  to  soothe 
her  last  moments,  I  cried  bitterly,  and  upbraided  my- 
self for  leaving  her,  for  she  would  not  have  left  me. 
This  reflection,  my  dear  friend,  will,  I  fear,  pursue  me 
to  my  grave.  She  had  suffered  a  great  deal  from  her 
disease  for  some  weeks  before  her  death;  but  the 
actual  scene  of  dying  itself  was  not  dreadful.  She 
continued  quite  sensible  till  a  few  minutes  before, 
when  she  began  to  doze  calmly,  and  expired  without 
any  struggle.  When  I  saw  her,  four  days  after,  her 
countenance  was  not  at  all  disfigured.  But  alas  !  to 
see  my  excellent  wife  and  the  mother  of  my  children, 
and  that  most  sensible,  lively  woman,  lying  cold  and 
pale  and  insensible,  was  very  shocking  to  me.  I  could 
not  help  doubting  it  was  a  deception.  I  could  hardly 
bring  myself  to  agree  that  the  body  should  be  removed, 
for  it  was  still  a  consolation  to  me  to  go  and  kneel  by 


FUNERAL    OF    MRS.    BOS  WELL.  299 

it,  and  talk  to  my  dear,  dear  Peggie.  She  was  much 
respected  by  all  who  knew  her,  so  that  her  funeral  was 
remarkably  well  attended.  There  were  nineteen  car- 
riages followed  the  hearse,  and  a  large  body  of  horse- 
men and  the  tenants  of  all  my  lands.  It  is  not  cus- 
tomary in  Scotland  for  a  husband  to  attend  a  wife's 
funeral ;  but  I  resolved,  if  I  possibly  could,  to  do  her 
the  last  honours  myself ;  and  I  was  able  to  go  through 
it  very  decently.  I  privately  read  the  funeral  service 
over  her  coffin  in  presence  of  my  sons,  and  was  re- 
lieved by  that  ceremony  a  good  deal.  On  the  Sunday 
after,  Mr.  Dun  delivered,  almost  verbatim,  a  few  sen- 
tences which  I  sent  him  as  a  character  of  her.  I  ima- 
gined that  I  should  not  be  able  to  stay  here,  after  the 
sad  misfortune,  but  I  find  that  I  cling  to  it  with  a 
melancholy  pleasure. 

Honest  David  is  perpetually  pressing  my  confining 
my  family  to  Scotland.  But  alas !  my  dear  friend, 
should  I  or  could  I  be  satisfied  with  narrow  provin- 
ciality, which  was  formerly  so  irksome,  and  must  now 
be  much  more  so?  I  have  agreed  that  my  second 
daughter  shall  pass  this  winter  at  Edinburgh,  as  she 
has  desired  it,  in  order  to  finish  her  education.  But 
were  my  daughters  to  be  Edinburgh-mannered  girls,  I 
could  have  no  satisfaction  in  their  company.  Veronica 
wishes  to  be  boarded  this  winter  with  a  lady  in  Lon- 
don. Little  Betsy,  who  is  just  nine  years  old,  goes 
tomorrow  to  a  quiet  boarding-school  at  Ayr,  our  coun- 
try-town, till  I  settle  where  to  place  her  for  a  year  or 
two.  I  am  thinking  of  a  convent  in  Erance,  or  rather 


300  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

in  Flanders,  where  she  can  be  well  educated  a  certain 
length  very  cheap,  and  then  I  would  finish  her  at  one 
of  the  great  English  boarding-schools.  Yet  if  I  can 
find  a  good  and  cheap  English  one,  I  may  probably 
not  send  her  abroad.  Can  you  and  Mrs.  Temple  ad- 
vise me?  My  eldest  son,  I  am  resolved,  shall  go  to 
Eton  this  winter.  I  am  to  have  only  chambers  in  the 
Temple  after  Christmas.  I  may  perhaps  come  to  you 
in  autumn,  if  Malone  goes  to  Ireland,  so  that  the  re- 
vising of  Johnson's  Life  cannot  proceed  till  winter.  I 
am  much  obliged  to  you  for  your  prayer.  I  experience 
that  piety  affords  the  only  real  comfort.  My  kindest 
love  to  you  and  yours.  I  am  forcing  myself  to  be  as 
busy  as  I  can,  and  think  of  going  the  Northern 
Circuit. 

Ever  most  affectionately  yours, 

J.  B. 

Pray  write  often,  though  but  a  few  lines. 


78.]  AuchinlecTc,,  Ind  August,  1789. 

My  dearest  Temple, 

A  more  comforting  letter  than  your  last  never  was 
received  by  a  friend. 

I  am  now  quite  settled  as  to  my  daughters.  The 
eldest  goes  to  Mrs.  Buchanan's,  the  good  widow  lady 
with  an  accomplished  daughter,  in  London,  where  she 
will  be  exceedingly  well  as  a  friendly  boarder;  the 
second  goes  for  one  year  to  Edinburgh,  to  a  boarding- 


COUNTY    ELECTION.  301 

school,  where  her  education  will  be  completed,  and  she 
will  have  countenance  shown  her  by  many  good  friends 
of  her  valuable  mother ;  and  little  Betsy,  nine  years 
old,  shall  be  left  by  me  at  the  place  which  you  satisfy 
me  the  very  best  for  her.  The  distance  no  doubt  is 
some  objection,  but  not  so  strong  as  there  would  be 
to  a  convent,  because  I  can  see  her  sooner,  and  the 
very  kind  offer  that  she  shall  be  with  you  and  Mrs. 
Temple  in  the  holidays,  for  which  I  most  heartily 
thank  you,  and  of  which  I  shall  frankly  accept,  is  per- 
fectly decisive.  I  cannot  yet  resolve  whether  I  shall 
come  to  you  this  month,  so  as  to  be  at  Carlisle  the 
beginning  of  October,  as  my  office  of  Recorder  obliges 
me  to  be  there  annually  at  Michaelmas;  or  whether  I 
shall  keep  up  appearances  by  going  a  part  of  the 
Northern  Circuit,  and  not  be  with  you  till  after  Mi- 
chaelmas, when  I  imagine  the  weather  is  sufficiently 
favourable  for  viewing  the  Land's  End. 

My  immediate  object  is  our  County  election  of  an 
interim  Member,  in  room  of  Colonel  Montgomerie,  who 
has  got  a  place  of  £500  a  year.  Dundas  is  insolently 
forcing  upon  us  a  gentleman  from  another  County, 
which  I  and  the  other  two  Declarants,  as  candidates  at 
the  General  Election  against  his  candidate,  now  unite 
to  resist.  Tomorrow  is  the  election-day ;  I  fear  we 
shall  lose  it,  but  we  shall  make  an  admirable  figure. 
To  own  the  truth,  I  have  very  little  chance  for  suc- 
cess at  the  General  Election,  but  I  may  perhaps  ne- 
gotiate for  a  part  of  the  Parliament.  The  Prince  of 
Wales  has  received  our  Address  most  graciously,  and 


302  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

I  am  to  be  presented  to  his  Royal  Highness,  who  de- 
sired it  might  be  signified  that  he  regretted  Mr.  Bos- 
well  was  gone  from  town. 

By  all  these  means,  my  dear  friend,  my  attention  is 
a  good  deal  dissipated ;  but  I  feel  that  the  great  and 
pathetic  deprivation  which  I  have  suffered  distresses 
me  at  frequent  intervals  more  than  at  first.  Gracious 
God,  grant  me  resignation  and  hope  !  O  my  friend, 
you  shall  know  what  I  endure  when  we  meet. 

My  very  best  compliments  to  Mrs.  Temple,  and  love 
to  your  young  family. 

Ever  most  affectionately  yours, 

J.  B. 
Pray  be  good  enough  to  write  often. 


79.]  Rose  Castle,  Sunday,  ZSrd  August,  1789. 

My  dear  Temple, 

I  left  Auchinleck  with  intention  to  join  the  Northern 
Circuit  at  Carlisle.  I  went  first  to  Lowther,  the  great 
man  having  invited  me,  by  a  letter,  to  come  to  him  as 
soon  as  I  should  find  it  convenient.  My  mind  was  so 
sore  from  my  late  severe  loss,  that  I  shrunk  from  the 
rough  scene  of  the  roaring,  bantering  society  of  law- 
yers. I  consulted  Lord  Lonsdale,  who  thought  I  might 
stay  away,  as  I  had  a  very  good  excuse.  I  accordingly 
remained  at  Lowther.  Still  I  was  in  sad  distress, 
though  I  forced  an  appearance  of  doing  wonderfully 
well. 


LOSS    OF    A    WIG.  303 

A  strange  accident  happened :  the  house  at  Lowther 
was  so  crowded,  that  I  and  two  other  gentlemen  were 
laid  in  one  room.  On  Thursday  morning  my  wig  was 
missing ;  a  strict  search  was  made,  ah1  in  vain.  I  was 
obliged  to  go  all  day  in  my  nightcap,  and  absent  my- 
self from  a  party  of  ladies  and  gentlemen,  who  went 
and  dined  with  the  Earl  on  the  banks  of  the  lake, — a 
piece  of  amusement  which  I  was  glad  to  shun,  as  well 
as  a  dance  which  they  had  at  night.  But  I  was  in 
a  ludicrous  situation.  I  suspected  a  wanton  trick, 
which  some  people  think  witty ;  but  I  thought  it  very 
ill-timed  to  one  in  my  situation.  Next  morning  the 
Earl  and  a  Colonel,  who  I  thought  might  have  con- 
cealed my  wig,  declared  to  me  upon  honour  they  did 
not  know  where  it  was ;  and  the  conjecture  was  that 
a  clergyman  who  was  in  the  room  with  me,  and  had 
packed  up  his  portmanteau  in  a  great  hurry  to  set  out 
in  the  morning  early,  might  have  put  it  up  among  his 
things.  This  is  very  improbable;  but  I  could  not 
long  remain  an  object  of  laughter,  so  I  went  twenty- 
five  miles  to  Carlisle  on  Friday,  and  luckily  got  a  wig 
there  fitted  for  me  in  a  few  hours.  Yesterday  I  came 
to  this  Seat  of  the  Bishop,  where  I  find  myself  some- 
what easier,  there  being  more  quietness.  His  Lord- 
ship's chaplain  read  prayers,  and  preached  to  us  in 
his  chapel  today.  The  scene  is  fine  externally,  and 
hospitable  and  quiet  within ;  but  alas  !  my  grief  preys 
upon  me  night  and  day.  I  am  amazed  when  I  look 
back.  Though  I  often  and  often  dreaded  this  loss,  I 
had  no  conception  how  distressing  it  would  be.  May 


304  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

God  have  mercy  upon  me !  I  am  quite  restless  and 
feeble  and  desponding.  I  return  to  Lowther  tomorrow 
for  two  days,  to  show  that  I  am  not  at  all  in  a  pet,  and 
then  I  am  to  return  to  Auchinleck  for  a  little  time. 

Such  is  my  melancholy  frame  at  present,  that  I 
waver  as  to  all  my  plans.  I  have  an  avidity  for  death ; 
I  eagerly  wish  to  be  laid  by  my  dear  wife ;  years  of 
life  seem  insupportable.  I  dread  that  Eton  may  make 
my  son  expensive  and  vicious,  and  it  seems  hard  to 
send  my  little  daughter  two  hundred  miles  beyond 
London.  Every  prospect  that  I  turn  my  mind's  eye 
upon  is  dreary.  Why  should  I  struggle  ?  I  certainly 
am  constitutionally  unfit  for  any  employment.  The 
Law  life  in  Scotland,  amongst  vulgar  familiarity,  would 
now  quite  destroy  me.  I  am  not  able  to  acquire  the 
Law  of  England.  To  be  in  Parliament,  unless  as  an 
independent  Member,  would  gall  my  spirit ;  to  live  in 
the  country  would  either  harass  me  by  forced  exer- 
tions, or  sink  me  into  a  gloomy  stupor.  Let  me  not 
think  at  present,  far  less  resolve.  The  '  Life  of  John- 
son' still  keeps  me  up ;  I  must  bring  that  forth,  and 
then  I  think  I  may  bury  myself  in  London,  in  total 
obscure  indifference,  and  let  the  savings  of  my  estate 
accumulate  for  my  family. 

God  bless  you,  my  dear  friend  !  What  a  blessing 
is  it  to  me  that  I  have,  through  all  the  vicissitudes  of 
my  life,  had  my  Temple.  But  alas  !  alas  !  am  I  cer- 
tain one  hour  of  retaining  him  ?  and  when  the  fatal 
news  arrives  that  he  is  gone  (if  it  arrives  to  me),  how 
am  I  to  support  it  ? 


BITTER    REFLECTIONS.  805 

Almighty  and  most  merciful  Father !  let  me  never 
impiously  repine.  May  I  be  enabled  by  thy  grace 
really  to  submit  myself  entirely  to  thy  divine  Will. 
Yet  as  "  Jesus  wept"  for  the  death  of  Lazarus,  I  hope 
my  tears  at  this  time  are  excused. 

How  much  do  I  regret  that  I  have  not  applied  my- 
self more  to  learning.  "  Adversis  perfugium  et  sola- 
tium pra3bent,"*  is,  I  believe  literally  true  of  "  studia" 
in  a  certain  degree.  The  woeful  circumstance  of  such 
a  state  of  mind  as  I  now  experience  is  that  it  rejects 
consolation ;  it  feels  an  indulgence  in  its  own  wretch- 
edness. O  my  friend,  what  would  I  give  for  one  of 
those  years  with  my  dearest  cousin,  friend  and  wife, 
which  are  past !  May  I  not  flatter  myself  with  a  dawn 
of  hope  that  I  shall  be  permitted  to  see  her  again,  aye 
and  to  be  with  her,  not  to  be  separated !  What  can 
one  think  ?  what  can  one  do  in  so  wretched  a  state 
as  this  ?  She  used  on  all  occasions  to  be  my  com- 
forter; she,  methinks,  could  now  suggest  rational 
thoughts  to  me ;  but  where  is  she  ?  O  my  Temple, 
I  am  miserable.  It  is  astonishing  what  force  I  have 
put  upon  myself  since  her  death,  how  I  have  enter- 
tained company,  etc.  etc. ;  but  all  this  makes  me 
worse.  Is  it  possible  that  I  yet  can  have  any  enjoy- 
ment in  this  state  of  being  ?  My  kindest  compliments 
to  all  your  family.  Value  Mrs.  Temple  warmly  while 

*  Cic.,  Pro  Archia  Poeta,  c.  7. — The  remainder  of  the  quotation 
Boswell  might  have  remembered  equally  appositely  : — "  Hsec  studia 
adolescentiam  alunt,  senectutem  oblectant,  secundas  res  ornant,  ad- 
versis  perfugium  ac  solatium  prsebent,  delectant  domi,  non  impediunt 
foris,  pemoctant  nobiscum,  peregrinantur,  rusticaritur." 

X 


306  LETTERS    OF    BO  SWELL. 

you  have  her.     Write  to  me  under  cover  to  Mr.  Gar- 
forth.     Ever,  etc.  J.  B. 


80.]  London,  IStk  October,  1789. 

My  dear  Temple, 

Believe  me  I  cannot  sufficiently  thank  you  for  the 
comfort  your  last  most  friendly  letter  gave  me.  Your 
kindness  has  all  advantages  :  it  is  wise,  virtuous,  and 
pleasing.  I  thank  God  my  mind  has  attained  more 
composure  than  when  I  wrote  to  you  from  the  Bishop 
of  Carlisle's  ;  but  the  truth  is,  I  am  in  a  kind  of  dis- 
sipated stupor,  and  am  afraid  to  think.  I  left  Auchin- 
leck  on  the  first  of  this  month ;  I  had  before  that  gone 
to  Carlisle,  and  met  Lord  Lonsdale,  to  license  the  pub- 
licans. All  went  on  well,  and  I  returned  for  some  time 
to  Auchinleck.  My  eldest  son  and  I  were  a  night  at 
Lowther,  on  our  return  to  town.  My  wig  was  found, 
and  the  way  in  which  it  was  lost  will  remain  as  secret 
as  the  author  of  Junius. 

On  consideration,  and  hearing  my  friends  here,  I 
cannot  think  of  sending  little  Betsy  so  far  as  Devon- 
shire, especially  as  she  would  be  above  seventy  miles 
from  your  house.  I  am  warmly  thankful  to  you  and 
Mrs.  Temple  for  your  kind  offers,  but  I  am  inquiring 
for  a  boarding-school  in  the  neighbourhood  of  London. 
This  being  now  my  resolution,  I  defer  my  visit  to  you. 
Malone,  who  obligingly  revises  my  *  Life  of  Johnson,' 
is  to  go  to  Ireland  when  his  Shakespeare  is  published, 
which  will  be  about  Christmas.  I  am  therefore  to  get 


SIR    JOSHUA    REYNOLDS.  307 

as  much  of  his  time  as  may  be  while  he  remains,  as 
he  may  not  return  from  Ireland  till  the  summer.  I 
think  of  visiting  you  in  the  Christmas  holidays,  or 
perhaps  not  till  spring  or  summer :  we  shall  consult 
in  mutual  letters. 

Sir  Joshua  Reynolds'  loss  of  the  sight  of  one  eye, 
and  weakness  of  the  other,  you  may  believe  must  af- 
flict him  deeply  :  he  is  another  instance  of  did  beatus 
ante  obifum  nemo.  His  friends  are  assiduous  in  con- 
soling him. 

I  shall  write  more  fully  soon  ;  and,  offering  my  best 
compliments  to  your  family,  I  ever  am,  my  dear 
Temple, 

Your  most  affectionate  friend, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 

14M  October. — Having  been  too  late  for  the  Post 
yesterday,  I  have  opened  my  packet  to  add  a  little  to 
this  letter.  David  has  told  me  of  your  proposal  to 
take  two  shares  in  the  Tontine,  and  in  what  a  friendly 
manner  you  have  written  to  him  concerning  the  £200 
which  I  owe  you.  I  have  written  to  my  agent  at  Edin- 
burgh pressingly,  to  exert  [himself]  in  getting  me  pay- 
ment of  what  is  due  to  me  ;  and  I  hope  by  January 
to  be  able  to  answer  your  convenience,  for  I  cannot 
say  demand.  If  not,  a  little  longer  delay  may  not  be 
very  inconvenient ;  and  I  will,  at  all  events,  have  your, 
money  ready  before  the  Tontine  is  closed.  How  un- 
pleasant is  it  to  be  straitened  in  our  circumstances,  as 
the  phrase  is  ;  yet  this  I  have  been  for  twenty  years, 
and,  I  dread,  must  be  so  I  know  not  how  long.  I  must 

x  2 


308  LETTERS  OF    BOSWELL. 

reckon  my  children  at  £100  a  year  each,  £500 ;  after 
which  I  reckon  I  cannot  command  more  than  £350. 
I  am  looking  for  chambers  in  the  Temple.  I  am  not 
at  all  well  today.  I  have  had  a  restless  night,  and 
many  painful  thoughts  of  my  irreparable  loss.  Yes- 
terday afternoon  Malone  and  I  revised  and  made 
ready  for  the  Press  thirty  pages  of  Johnson's  Life  :  he 
is  much  pleased  with  it ;  but  I  feel  a  sad  indifference, 
and  he  says  I  have  not  the  use  of  my  faculties.  They 
have  been  torpid  for  some  time,  except  in  conversa- 
tion ;  I  hope  to  recover  them.  I  go  to  Eton  tomor- 
row with  my  eldest  son.  I  was  there  last  week  to 
prepare  matters,  and  to  my  agreeable  surprise  found 
myself  highly  considered  there,  was  asked  by  Dr. 
Davies  the  Head-master  to  dine  at  the  Fellows'  table, 
and  made  a  creditable  figure.  I  certainly  have  the  art 
of  making  the  most  of  what  I  have.  How  should  one 
who  has  had  only  a  Scotch  education  be  quite  at  home 
at  Eton  ?  /  had  my  classical  quotations  very  ready.  I 
have  drunk  too  much  wine  for  some  time  past.*  I  fly 
to  every  mode  of  agitation.  I  am  now  to  try  fixing 
my  attention  to  my  magnum  opus. 

*  Alas  that  Boswell  should  not  recollect  at  the  right  time  his 
own  apophthegm,  "  A  drunken  fellow  is  not  honest — '  a  stick,'  said 
I, '  kept  always  moist  must  become  rotten.' " — Boswelliana,  Philobib. 
Soc.  vol.  ii. 


309 


CHAPTER  XVI. 

1789-1790. 

HABIT  OF  INTEMPERANCE.  —  MALONE. —  BOSWELI/S  OWN  OPI- 
NION OP  THE  MERITS  OP  '  LIFE  OF  JOHNSON.' — PRIVATE  AF- 
FAIRS.— A  GOOD  DINNER. — MONUMENT  TO  DR.  JOHNSON. — 
'EUROPEAN  SETTLEMENT,'  WRITTEN  BY  BURKE'S  COUSIN.— 
PRINTING  THE  'LIFE  OF  JOHNSON.'  —  INSCRIPTION  ON  HIS 
MONUMENT. — READABLE  STYLE  OF  WRITING. 

THE  account  which  Boswell  gives  to  Mr.  Temple  in  the 
letters  of  November  the  28th  and  30th,  of  the  labour 
he  underwent  in  preparing  his  magnum  opus  for  the 
Press,  is  probably  no  exaggeration.  No  matter  of  mi- 
nutest detail,  however  trifling  in  itself,  was  allowed 
to  pass  by  the  indefatigable  biographer  into  his  pages 
without  being  tested  and  established  to  his  own  con- 
scientious satisfaction.  As  he  himself  says,  all  he  wrote 
"is  told  with  authenticity  and  in  a  lively  manner." 

In  the  following  letters  will  be  found  frequent  re- 
ference to  Bos  well's  two  sons :  all  that  it  has  been 
thought  necessary  to  say  with  respect  to  their  career 
will  be  found  in  the  introductory  chapter  of  this 
volume. 


310  LETTERS    OF    BOS  WELL. 

81.]  London,  28^  November,  1789. 

My  dear  Temple, 
Let  me  address  you  from  Cato  : — 

"  Thou  best  of  friends, 
Pardon  a  weak,  distemper'd  soul,  that  swells 
In  sudden  gusts,  and  sinks  again  in  calms." 

Your  last  letter  supposes  too  truly  my  situation.  With 
grief  continually  at  my  heart,  I  have  been  endeavour- 
ing to  seek  relief  in  dissipation  and  in  wine,  so  that 
my  life  for  some  time  past  has  been  unworthy  of  my- 
self, of  you,  and  of  all  that  is  valuable  in  my  cha- 
racter and  connections.  Eor  a  week  past,  as  the  com- 
mon phrase  is,  "  I  have  taken  up,"  and,  by  a  more 
regular  and  quiet  course,  find  myself,  I  think,  rather 
better.  I  cannot  express  to  you,  Temple,  what  I  suffer 
from  the  loss  of  my  valuable  wife  and  the  mother  of 
my  children.  While  she  lived,  I  had  no  occasion  al- 
most to  think  concerning  my  family ;  every  particular 
was  thought  of  by  her,  better  than  I  could.  I  am  the 
most  helpless  of  human  beings ;  I  am  in  a  state  very 
much  that  of  one  in  despair. 

30M  November. — I  have  though,  I  assure  you,  a 
constant  solace  to  my  uuhappiness  in  thinking  of  you, 
whose  friendship  I  have  tried  and  found  constant  for 
more  than  half  my  life,  and  whose  worth  my  Popish 
imagination  cannot  help  somehow  viewing  as  a  kind 
of  credit,  on  which  I  may  in  part  repose. 

My  apology  for  not  coming  to  you,  as  I  fully  in- 
tended and  wished,  is  really  a  sufficient  one ;  for  the 
revision  of  my  '  Life  of  Johnson '  by  so  acute  and 


BOSWELL    ON    HIS  '  MAGNUM    OPUS/  311 

knowing  a  critic  as  Mr.  Malone  is  of  most  essential 
consequence,  especially  as  he  is  Johnsotiianissimus  ; 
and,  as  he  is  to  hasten  to  Ireland  as  soon  as  his 
Shakespeare  is  fairly  published,  I  must  avail  myself 
of  him  now.  His  hospitality  and  my  other  invitations, 
and  particularly  my  attendance  at  Lord  Lonsdale's, 
have  lost  us  many  evenings :  but  I  reckon  that  a  third 
of  the  Work  is  settled,  so  that  I  shall  get  to  press  very 
soon.  You  cannot  imagine  what  labour,  what  per- 
plexity, what  vexation  I  have  endured  in  arranging  a 
prodigious  multiplicity  of  materials,  in  supplying  omis- 
sions, in  searching  for  papers,  buried  in  different  masses, 
and  all  this  besides  the  exertion  of  composing  and  po- 
lishing :  many  a  time  have  I  thought  of  giving  it  up. 
However,  though  I  shah1  be  uneasily  sensible  of  its  many 
deficiencies,  it  will  certainly  be  to  the  world  a  very  va- 
luable and  peculiar  volume  of  biography,  full  of  literary 
and  characteristical  anecdotes  (which  word,  by  the  way, 
Johnson  always  condemned,  as  used  in  the  sense  that 
the  French,  and  we  from  them,  use  it,  as  signifying 
particulars*)  told  with  authenticity  and  in  a  lively 

*  In  Johnson's  Dictionary  we  find  the  word  thus  defined : — 

"ANECDOTE,  n.  s.  1.  Something  yet  unpublished;  secret  history. 
'  Some  modern  anecdotes  aver 
He  nodded  in  his  easy  chair.' — PRIOR. 

"2.  It  is  now  used,  after  the  French,  for  a  biographical  incident, 
a  minute  passage  of  private  life." 

However  now  we  hear  of  "  anecdotes"  alike  of  great  men  (such  as 
prime  ministers  or  editors  of  posthumous  letters),  of  little  children 
(as  the  children  of  emperors  and  those  found  in  infant,  missionary, 
and  ragged  schools)  ;  of  wise  politicians  and  clever  pointer-dogs ;  of 
tragedians,  elephants,  and  other  learned  occupants  of  the  British 


312  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

manner.  Would  that  it  were  in  the  booksellers'  shops  ! 
Methinks,  if  I  had  this  maynum  opus  launched,  the 
Public  has  no  further  claim  upon  me ;  for  I  have  pro- 
mised no  more,  and  I  may  die  in  peace,  or  retire  into 
dull  obscurity,  reddarque  tenebris.  Such  is  the  gloomy 
ground  of  my  mind,  that  any  agreeable  perceptions 
have  an  uncommon,  though  but  a  momentary,  bright- 
ness. But  alas  !  my  friend,  be  the  accidents  as  they 
may,  how  is  the  substance  ?  how  am  I  ?  With  a  pious 
submission  to  God,  but  at  the  same  time  a  kind  of  ob- 
stinate feeling  toward  men,  I  walk  about  upon  the  earth 
with  inward  discontent,  though  I  may  appear  the  most 
cheerful  man  you  meet.  I  may  have  many  gratifica- 
tions, but  the  comfort  of  life  is  at  an  end. 

I  shrunk,  on  a  near  approach  of  the  time,  from 
sending  my  youngest  daughter  to  such  a  distance ; 
indeed  Sir  Joshua  said  there  would  be  a  loss  of  all 
natural  affection ;  and  considering  that  she  was  not  to 
be  in  your  neighbourhood  either,  I  placed  her  at  Mr. 
Hockley's,  at  Blackland's  House,  Chelsea,  a  very  ex- 
cellent boarding-school,  where  I  intend  she  shall  be 
for  some  years,  without  being  a  single  night  from  it, 
that  I  may  have  one  unindulged  English  daughter,  of 
whom  I  fancy  myself  to  be  vain.  She  is  very  pretty 
and  very  clever. 

As  for  the  other  four,  who  have  all  been  too  much 
indulged,  my  second  daughter  is  at  a  good  boarding- 
stage,  and  so  on.  In  fact,  if  Johnson  were  wont  to  be  shocked  in 
the  eighteenth  century  by  the  abuse  of  the  word,  in  the  nineteenth 
he  would  have  been  horrified. 


DOMESTIC    DIFFICULTIES.  313 

school  at  Edinburgh,  and  under  the  inspection  of  her 
Grandmamma,  as  my  father's  widow  is  called,  who,  I 
must  say,  is  exceedingly  good  to  her.     How  much 
better  is  it  that  I  am  on  decent  terms  with  that  lady ! 
My  eldest  daughter  is  at  the  house  of  a  lady  here,  a 
Mrs.  Buchanan,  with  whose  daughter,  a  very  accom- 
plished girl,  Veronica  is  very  intimate ;  but  I  can  per- 
ceive already  that  my  daughter  will  not  long  be  happy 
in  that  situation,  and  the  second  one  must  escape  from 
school  in  a  year.     What  then  is  to  become  of  them  ? 
I  am  utterly  at  a  loss.     They  cannot  live  with  satis- 
faction, or  even  propriety,  in  a  house  here  with  me, 
as  I  am  very  little  at  home,  cannot  afford  to  keep  a 
carriage,  and  have  nobody  to  take  them  out  to  visit, 
or  to  public  places.     Undoubtedly  my  having  a  house 
in  Edinburgh  would  be  best  for  them ;  but,  besides 
that  my  withdrawing  thither  would  cut  me  off  from 
all  those  chances  which  may  in  time  raise  me  in  life, 
I  could  not  possibly  endure  Edinburgh  now,  unless  I 
were  to  have  a  Judge's  place  to  bear  me  up ;  and  even 
then  I  should  sigh  deeply  for  the  Metropolis.    Malone 
advises  me  to  find  some  respectable  elderly  lady,  who, 
though  well  bred  and  well  connected,  has  little  fortune, 
and  would  be  glad  to  be  a  companion  and  superinten- 
dent of  them,  from  the  consideration  of  being  comfor- 
tably accommodated,  and  having  £30  or  £40  to  buy 
clothes.     But  my  daughters   are   not  what   girls   of 
fifteen  and  sixteen  commonly  are;   they  are  exceed- 
ingly advanced  for  their  years,  and  would  not  submit 
to  such  a  woman,  nor  have  I  almost  any  authority 


314  LETTERS    OF    BOS  WELL. 

over  them.  My  only  hold  is  their  affection.  To  place 
them  at  Auchinleck  by  themselves  would  be  wrong, 
and  I  am  unlucky  enough  to  have  no  female  relation 
whatever  with  whom  they  could  live,  except  my  step- 
mother, and  she  could  not  take  the  trouble  of  having 
them  with  her.  Is  not  this  a  sad  situation  ?  I  have 
no  guess  what  will  be  done. 

I  have  given  up  my  house,  and  taken  good  cham- 
bers in  the  Inner  Temple,  to  have  the  appearance  of  a 
lawyer.  O  Temple !  Temple  !  is  this  realising  any  of 
the  towering  hopes  which  have  so  often  been  the  sub- 
ject of  our  conversations  and  letters  ?  Yet  I  live  much 
with  a  great  man,  who,  upon  any  day  that  his  fancy 
shah1  be  so  inclined,  may  obtain  for  me  an  office  which 
would  make  me  independent.  The  state  of  my  affairs 
is  very  disagreeable,  but  be  not  afraid  for  your  £200, 
as  you  may  depend  upon  its  being  repaid.  My  rent- 
roll  is  above  £1600  ;  but,  deducting  annuities,  interest 
of  debts,  and  expenses  absolutely  necessary  at  Auchin- 
leck, I  have  but  about  £850  to  spend.  I  reckon  my 
five  children  at  £500  a  year.  You  see  what  remains 
for  myself.  I  am  this  year  to  make  one  trial  of  the 
Lord  Chancellor.  In  short  I  cast  about  everywhere.  I 
do  not  see  the  smallest  opening  in  Westminster  Hall ; 
but  I  like  the  scene,  though  I  have  attended  only  one 
day  this  last  Term,  being  eager  to  get  my  '  Life  of  John- 
son' finished.  And  the  delusion  that  practice  may 
come  at  any  time  (which  is  certainly  true)  still  pos- 
sesses me. 

My  eldest  son  has  been  at  Eton  since  the  15th  of 


EDUCATION    OF    HIS    SONS.  315 

October.  You  cannot  imagine  how  miserable  he  has 
been :  he  wrote  to  me  for  some  time  as  if  from  the 
galleys,  and  intreated  me  to  come  to  him.  I  did  what 
was  better  ;  I  sent  his  uncle  David,  who  was  firm,  and 
brought  me  back  a  good  report,  that  there  was  no 
reason  to  pity  him.  I  have  delayed  and  delayed  going, 
and  I  can  perceive  he  hardens.  Perhaps  I  may  go 
before  the  holidays  commence,  which  will  be  on  the 
tenth  of  this  month.  I  mean  that  he  shall  be  two 
years  at  Eton,  then  two  at  Edinburgh,  and  then  study 
Civil  Law,  etc.  in  Holland  and  Germany.  If  he  lives 
he  will  have  £3000  a  year,  for  my  estate  is  rising 
every  year;  and  the  lands  life-rented  by  my  step- 
mother, if  properly  managed,  would  yield  £500  a  year. 
My  second  son  is  an  extraordinary  boy  :  he  is  much 
of  his  father  (vanity  of  vanities).  He  is  to  be  a  bar- 
rister, and  I  am  very  desirous  to  train  him  properly. 
He  is  of  a  delicate  constitution,  but  not  unhealthy, 
and  his  spirit  never  fails  him.  He  is  still  in  the  house 
with  me ;  indeed  he  is  quite  my  companion,  though 
only  eleven  in  September.  He  goes  in  the  day  to 
the  academy  in  Soho  Square,  kept  by  the  Rev.  Dr. 
Barrow,  formerly  of  Queens',  Oxford,  a  coarse  north- 
countryman,  but  a  very  good  scholar ;  and  there  my  boy 
is  very  well  taught.  After  the  holidays  I  am  to  take 
resolution  and  board  my  little  James  somewhere,  for 
while  under  my  roof  he  passes  his  time  chiefly  with 
my  old  housekeeper  and  my  footman.  What  shall  I 
do  ?  Soho  is  a  competently  good  place,  but  there  are 
few  boys  there  but  of  an  inferior  rank ;  yet  is  it  not 


316  LETTERS    OF    BOSVVELL. 

injustice  to  a  good  master,  should  I  remove  my  son  ? 
The  boy  wishes  much  to  go  to  Eton,  because  his  bro- 
ther is  there;  I,  on  the  other  hand,  think  it  better 
they  should  be  separate,  and  wish  to  place  him  at 
Westminster.  To  that  there  is  the  objection  of  danger 
to  his  morals,  which  however  is  answered  by  the 
boys  there  not  being  worse  than  at  other  schools,  and 
by  the  first  people  in  the  nation  continuing  to  keep 
their  sons  there.  The  eclat  of  Westminster,  I  think, 
would  be  of  service  to  him,  and  I  have  a  great 
respect  for  Vincent,  the  present  Head-master.  I  am  not 
sure  whether  I  have  mentioned  to  you  with  what  re- 
spect I  found  myself  treated  at  Eton ;  how,  the  first 
time  I  went,  Dr.  Davies  carried  me  to  dine  with  him 
at  the  Fellows'  table,  and  the  next  time  had  me  to 
dine  at  his  own  house,  with  an  excellent  company,  both 
ladies  and  gentlemen.  I  certainly  have  some  talent  at 
making  the  most  of  myself,  to  a  certain  extent ;  but  I 
have  as  yet  done  nothing  essential  and  permanent  for 
my  advantage. 

I  cannot  help  thinking  how  strangely  it  has  hap- 
pened, that  I  have  never  yet  had,  properly  speaking, 
the  advantages  of  a  man  of  fortune,  but  have  been 
continually  straitened.  My  excellent  wife  was  at  less 
expense  than  any  woman,  even  of  much  inferior  rank, 
and  my  genteel  appearance  has  been  occasional  only  ; 
yet  I  do  believe  I  have  had  more  enjoyment  than  many 
who  have  grand  establishments.  I  have  above  £1000 
due  to  me  out  of  the  patrimonies  of  my  wife's  ne- 
phews, which  I  hope  will  be  paid  in  the  course  of  a  year 


MONUMENT    TO    DR.    JOHNSON.  317 

and  half,  or  a  part  of  it  this  year,  when  I  hope  also  to 
get  payment  of  poor  Johnston's  debt. 

The  week  before  last  I  indulged  myself  by  giving 
one  dinner.  I  had  Wilkes,  Sir  Joshua  Reynolds,  Flood 
the  Irish  orator,  Malone,  Courtenay,  Governor  Penn, 
grandson  of  old  William,  and  who  brought  over  the 
petition  from  Congress,  which  was  obstinately  and  un- 
wisely rejected,  and  my  brother  David  ;  we  had  a  very 
good  day.  Would  I  were  but  able  to  give  many  such 
dinners  !  Malone  gives  them  without  number.  Last 
Sunday  I  dined  with  him,  with  Sir  Joshua  Reynolds, 
Sir  Joseph  Banks,  Mr.  Metcalfe,  Mr.  Windham,  Mr. 
Courtenay,  and  young  Mr.  Burke,  being  a  select  num- 
ber of  Dr.  Johnson's  friends,  to  settle  as  to  effectual 
measures  for  having  a  monument  erected  to  him  in 
Westminster  Abbey  :  it  is  to  be  a  whole-length  statue 
of  him,  by  Bacon,  which  will  cost  £600.  Sir  Joshua 
and  Sir  William  Scott,  his  executors,  are  to  send  cir- 
cular letters  to  a  number  of  people,  of  whom  we  make 
a  list,  as  supposing  they  will  contribute.  Several  of 
us  subscribed  five  guineas  each,  Sir  Joshua  and  Met- 
calfe ten  guineas  each,  Courtenay  and  young  Burke 
two  guineas  each.  Will  you  not  be  one  of  us,  were 
it  but  for  one  guinea  ?  We  expect  that  the  Bench  of 
Bishops  will  be  liberal,  as  he  was  the  greatest  sup- 
porter of  the  hierarchy.  That  venerable  sound  brings 
to  my  mind  the  ruffians  of  France,  who  are  attempting 
to  destroy  all  order,  ecclesiastical  and  civil.  The  pre- 
sent state  of  that  country  is  an  intellectual  earthquake, 
a  whirlwind,  a  mad  insurrection,  without  any  im- 


318  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

mediate  cause,  and  therefore  we  see  to  what  a  horri- 
ble anarchy  it  tends.  I  do  not  mean  that  the  French 
ought  not  to  have  a  Habeas-Corpus  Act,  but  I  know 
nothing  more  they  wanted. 

I  wish  you  joy  of  your  young  sailor's  return.  What 
a  feeling  it  must  have  been  to  see  him  again  after  a 
three  years'  absence  !  You  must  be  somewhat  in  the 
situation  of  a  hen  who  has  hatched  ducks.  A  sea  life 
must  seem  very  unnatural  to  you ;  I  am  sure  it  does 
so  to  me. 

Is  not  this  a  long  letter  ?  but  it  is  too  much  about 
myself.  Alas !  I  read  almost  nothing.  I  am  how- 
ever just  ending  the  '  European  Settlements  in  Ame- 
rica,' for  the  first  time :  it  is  an  admirable  compend. 
Burke  said  to  me,  "  I  did  not  write  it ;  I  do  not  deny 
that  a  friend  did,  and  I  revised  it."  Malone  tells  me 
that  it  was  written  by  Will  Burke,  the  cousin  of  Ed- 
mund, when  they  were  in  Wales ;  but  it  is  everywhere 
evident  that  Burke  himself  has  contributed  a  great  deal 
to  it. 

Now,  my  dear  friend,  let  not  your  correspondence 
flag :  let  us  write  often,  though  short.  Perhaps  you 
will  be  here  in  the  Spring.  My  visit  to  you  must  be 
deferred  till  my  Work  is  printed  and  the  weather  is 
fine.  Poor  John  Dun  will  be  a  sad  loser  by  his  Ser- 
mons, etc.  Could  you  get  him  no  subscribers  ?  Best 
compliments  to  Mrs.  Temple,  and  love  to  all  the 
children. 

Ever  yours, 

J.  B. 


'LIFE  OF  JOHNSON'  IN  THE  PRESS.          319 

82.]  London,  8tk  Feb.  1790. 

My  dear  Temple, 

It  is  a  long  time  since  I  wrote  you  a  letter  of  twelve 
pages,  to  which  I  have  received  no  return ;  and,  not- 
withstanding our  mutual  allowance  for  unaccountable 
indolence  and  procrastination,  I  am  uneasy  at  your 
long  silence.  Pray  then  write. 

Both  my  sons  have  had  severe  rash  fever.  The 
eldest,  after  much  childish  murmuring,  reconciled  him- 
self to  Eton :  he  came  home  for  the  holidays,  but 
was  soon  taken  ill,  and  is  yet  so  weak  that  he  is  not 
returned  to  school,  though  it  is  three  weeks  after  the 
time.  I  hope  to  have  him  at  his  proper  station  in  a 
day  or  two.  My  second  boy,  after  the  rash  was  over, 
had  a  severe  fever,  produced  by  the  dregs  of  the  rash- 
fever,  so  that  I  was  much  alarmed  for  him,  and  caUed 
Dr.  Warren,  who  attended  him  for  some  time.  I 
thank  God  he  is  now  pretty  well.  By  Dr.  Warren's 
advice,  I  am  now  resolved  to  send  him  to  Westmin- 
ster School.  Warren  has  three  of  his  own  sons  there, 
and  assures  me  that  they  are  very  healthy.  I  still 
keep  on  my  house  in  Queen  Ann  Street  West,  having 
taken  it  till  Midsummer,  upon  my  finding  that  cham- 
bers in  the  Temple,  which  I  thought  I  had  secured, 
were  let  to  me  by  a  person  who  had  not  a  right.  It 
is  better  that  I  am  still  here,  for  I  am  within  a  short 
walk  of  Mr.  Malone,  who  revises  my  c  Life  of  John- 
son' with  me.  We  have  not  yet  gone  over  quite  a  half 
of  it,  but  it  is  at  last  fairly  in  the  Press.  I  intended 
to  have  printed  it  upon  what  is  called  an  English 


320  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

letter,  which  would  have  made  it  look  better ;  but,  upon 
calculation,  it  would  have  made  two  quarto  volumes, 
and  two  quarto  volumes  for  one  Life  would  have  ap- 
peared exorbitant,  though  in  truth  it  is  a  view  of  much 
of  the  literature,  and  many  of  the  literary  men,  of  Great 
Britain  for  more  than  half  a  century.  I  have  there- 
fore taken  a  smaller  type,  called  Pica,  and  even  upon 
that  I  am  afraid  its  bulk  will  be  very  large.  It  is  cu- 
rious to  observe  how  a  printer  calculates :  he  arranges 
a  number  of  pages,  and  the  words  in  them,  at  differ- 
ent parts  of  the  "  copy"  (as  the  MS.  is  called),  and 
so  finds  the  number  of  words.  Mine  here  are  four 
hundred  and  one  thousand  six  hundred.  Does  not 
this  frighten  you  ?  By  printing  a  page,  the  number 
of  words  it  holds  is  discovered ;  and,  by  dividing  the 
sum  total  of  words  by  that  number,  we  get  the  num- 
ber of  pages.  Mine  will  be,  we  reckon,  eight  hundred. 
I  think  it  will  be  without  exception  the  most  entertain- 
ing book  you  ever  read.  I  cannot  be  done  with  print- 
ing before  the  end  of  August. 

You  will  have  seen  that  Johnson's  friends  have  been 
exerting  themselves  for  his  Monument,  which  is  to  cost 
six  hundred  guineas.  We  have  now  near  to  £400  of 
the  money.  Can  we  have  no  Cornish  coin  ?  I  wish 
you  could  assist  us  in  your  neighbourhood.  As  your 
character  of  Gray  was  adopted  by  him,*  it  would  appear 
well  if  you  sent  two  guineas.  We  shall  have  a  great 

*  The  Subscription  List  will  show  any  reader  who  is  curious  on 
the  matter  if  this  inducement  influenced  Mr.  Temple  to  subscribe 
to  the  Memorial. 


VARIED    COMPANY.  321 

dispute  as  to  the  epitaph.  Flood,  the  orator,  though 
a  distinguished  scholar,  says  it  should  be  in  English, 
as  a  compliment  to  Johnson's  having  perpetuated  our 
language  :  he  has  comprised  his  opinion  in  these  lines  : 

"  No  need  of  Latin,  or  of  Greek,  to  grace 

Our  Johnson's  memory  and  inscribe  his  grave ; 
His  native  tongue  demands  this  mournful  space, 
To  pay  the  immortality  he  gave." 

The  Post-bell  summons  me  to  conclude,  with  best 
compliments  to  Mrs.  Temple  and  love  to  your  children, 
from  your  most  affectionate  friend, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 

P.S.  Is  there  any  doubt  of  your  coming  to  London 
this  year  ?  surely  not !  It  is  a  heaven  upon  earth 
comparatively. 

83.]  London,  13th  February,  1790. 

My  dear  Temple, 

Your  few  lines  of  the  6th  warmed  my  heart.  I 
fully  excuse  you  for  your  long  silence,  and  sincerely 
sympathize  with  you  while  under  the  pressure  of  that 
uncomfortable  indolence,  which  I  know  so  well.  I  also 
know  how  grateful  it  is  to  a  man  in  that  state  to  have 
the  animated  attention  of  his  friends,  especially  those 
who  are  in  the  Metropolis,  to  whom  he  looks  up ;  and 
as  by  God's  mercy  I  am  at  present  wonderfully  well, 
I  shall  endeavour  to  write  to  you  often,  and  to  supply 
you  with  spirits  from  my  store.  I  cannot  account  for 
my  healthful  mind  at  this  time ;  there  is  no  change  for 
the  better  in  my  circumstances.  I  have  no  better  pro- 
spect of  gratifying  my  ambition,  or  of  increasing  my 

Y 


322  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

fortune.  The  irreparable  loss  of  my  valuable  wife,  the 
helpless  state  of  my  daughters,  in  short  all  that  ever 
hung  heavy  upon  me  is  still  as  it  was ;  but  my  spirits 
are  vigorous  and  elastic.  I  dine  in  a  different  com- 
pany almost  every  day,  at  least  scarcely  ever  twice 
running  in  the  same  company,  so  that  I  have  fresh 
accessions  of  ideas.  I  drink  with  Lord  Lonsdale  one 
day ;  the  next  I  am  quiet  in  Malone's  elegant  study 
revising  my  '  Life  of  Johnson,'  of  which  I  have  high 
expectations,  both  as  to  fame  and  profit.  I  surely 
have  the  art  of  writing  agreeably.  The  Lord  Chancel- 
lor told  me  he  had  read  every  word  of  my  Hebridian 
Journal ;  he  could  not  help  it ;  adding,  "  Could  you 
give  a  rule  how  to  write  a  book  that  a  man  must  read  ? 
I  believe  Longinus  could  not." 

Honest  David  dined  with  me  yesterday.  Your  power- 
of-attorney  is  perfectly  right.  Dundas  deserves  to  be 
hanged  for  his  treacherous  and  unfeeling  conduct  to 
David ;  but  David  will  stick  to  him.  I  am  thinking 
to  write,  in  my  way,  against  the  repeal  of  the  Test  and 
Corporation  Acts ;  I  have  no  patience  with  the  impu- 
dent Sectarians.  You  know  I  meet  at  Dilly's  table 
many  of  those  fellows,  who  are  very  firebrands. 

My  best  compliments  to  Mrs.  Temple,  and  love  to 
the  children.  My  sons  are  getting  well.  I  saw  my 
little  daughter  at  Chelsea  today,  very  much  improved ; 
she  is  very  pretty, — she  really  is  !  Adieu,  my  oldest 
and  most  intimate  friend  !  Most  affectionately  yours, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


323 


CHAPTER  XVII. 

1790-91. 

POLITICAL  DISAPPOINTMENT.  —  LORD  LONSDALE's  SHOCKING 
ROUGHNESS.  —  A  LADY  OP  FORTUNE.  —  DEATH  OF  ROSS,  THE 
PLAYER. — HYPOCHONDRIA. — ADVANTAGES  OF  HIGH  LIFE  AND 
FIVE  HUNDRED  POUNDS  PER  ANNUM. — MACKLIN,  THE  ACTOR. 
-  LAST  SHEET  OF  '  LIFE  OF  JOHNSON.' —  MEDITATIONS  ON 
MATRIMONY. — MISS  BAGNAL. — WAR  WITH  RUSSIA.  —  HELPING 
THE  TURKS. 

ONE  of  Bos  well's  political  and  place-seeking  misfor- 
tunes will  be  found  recounted  presently,  in  a  manner 
which,  though  eminently  ridiculous,  shows  how  deeply 
he  was  mortified  by  the  transaction  referred  to.  The 
reader  will  also  see  the  approach  of  fresh  matrimonial 
speculations;  but,  on  the  whole,  the  correspondence 
continues  to  display  melancholy  proofs  that  poor  Bos- 
well's  brightest  days  were  past.  The  animal  vigour 
which  was  the  main  support  of  his  success  in  society, 
and  which  was  wont  to  sustain  him  through  the  dis- 
comforts he  was  destined  to  encounter,  was  now  clearly 
decaying,  and  with  it  ebbed  his  spirits. 


84.]  Carlisle,  2Ist  June,  1790. 

My  dear  Temple, 

At  no  period  during  our  long  friendship  have  I  been 

Y  2 


324  LETTERS    OF    BOS  WELL. 

more  unhappy  than  at  present.  The  day  on  which  I 
was  obliged  to  set  out  from  London,  I  had  an  hour 
allowed  me,  after  a  most  shocking  conversation  with 
Lord  Lonsdale,  and  I  hastened  home  in  hopes  of  find- 
ing you,  but  you  were  gone  out.  It  was  to  inform 
you  that,  upon  his  seeing  me  by  no  means  in  good  hu- 
mour, he  challenged  it  roughly,  and  said,  "  I  suppose 
you  thought  I  was  to  bring  you  into  Parliament ;  I 
never  had  any  such  intention."  In  short  he  expressed 
himself  in  the  most  degrading  manner,  in  presence  of 
a  low  man  from  Carlisle,  and  one  of  his  menial  ser- 
vants !  The  miserable  state  of  low  spirits  I  had,  as 
you  too  well  know,  laboured  under  for  some  time 
before,  made  me  almost  sink  under  such  unexpected 
insulting  behaviour.  He  insisted  rigorously  on  my 
having  solicited  the  office  of  Recorder  of  Carlisle ;  and 
that  I  could  not,  without  using  him  ill,  resign  it,  until 
the  duties  which  were  now  required  of  it  were  fulfilled, 
and  without  a  sufficient  time  being  given  for  the  elec- 
tion of  a  successor.  Thus  was  I  dragged  away,  as 
wretched  as  a  convict ;  and  in  my  fretfulness  I  used 
such  expressions  as  irritated  him  almost  to  fury,  so 
that  he  used  such  expressions  towards  me  that  I 
should  have,  according  to  the  irrational  laws  of  honour 
sanctioned  by  the  world,  been  under  the  necessity 
of  risking  my  life,  had  not  an  explanation  taken  place. 
This  happened  during  the  first  stage.  The  rest  of  the 
journey  was  barely  tolerable :  we  got  to  Lancaster 
on  Saturday  night,  and  there  I  left  him  to  the  turmoil 
of  a  desperate  attempt  in  electioneering.  I  proceeded 


LOUD  LONSDALE  AS  PATRON.        325 

to  Carlisle  last  night,  and  today  have  been  signing 
orders  as  to  poor's-rates.  I  am  alone  at  an  inn,  in 
wretched  spirits,  and  ashamed  and  sunk  on  account  of 
the  disappointment  of  hopes,  which  led  me  to  endure 
such  grievances.  I  deserve  all  that  I  suffer.  I  may 
be  kept  hanging  on  for  weeks,  till  the  election  and 
Midsummer  Sessions  are  over ;  and  I  am  at  the  same 
time  distracted  what  to  do  in  my  own  County,  as  to 
the  state  of  which  I  expect  letters  every  day.  I  am 
quite  in  a  fever.  O  my  old  and  most  intimate  friend, 
what  a  shocking  state  am  I  now  reduced  to !  I  en- 
treat of  you,  if  you  possibly  can,  to  afford  me  some 
consolation,  directed  to  me  here,  and  pray  do  not  di- 
vulge my  mortification.  I  will  endeavour  to  appear 
indifferent ;  and,  as  I  now  resign  my  Recordership,  I 
shall  gradually  get  rid  of  all  communication  with  this 
brutal  fellow.* 

How  much  does  it  distress  me  to  think,  that  I  should 
have  had  a  return  of  hypochondria  at  the  very  time 
when  you  and  your  amiable  daughter  were  with  us, 
and  then  that  I  should  have  been  compelled  to  leave 
you.  As  to  making  provision  for  your  amusement  from 
my  friends,  alas  !  the  selfishness  of  London  is  too  great. 
I  look  up  to  God  for  relief  to  my  mind ;  and  I  have 
this  real  consolation,  that  we  have  met  after  a  long 
absence,  the  same  friends  as  when  we  parted.  My 
kindest  compliments  to  Miss  Temple. 

Ever  most  affectionately  yours, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 

*  Meaning  his  noble  patron. 


326  LETTERS    OF    BO  SWELL. 

P.S. — How  unfortunate  to  be  obliged  to  leave  my 
friend,  and  interrupt  my  Work !  Never  was  a  poor  am- 
bitious projector  more  mortified.  I  am  suffering  with- 
out any  prospect  of  reward,  and  only  from  my  own  folly. 
I  apprehend  you  will  be  set  out  before  this  reaches 
London.  May  God  bless  you  and  Mrs.  Temple,  and 
your  children !  As  to  my  conduct  and  future  views,  I 
take  your  admonition  in  good  part,  and  shall  profit  by 
it  in  one  way  or  other ;  but  of  this  hereafter. 


85.]  London,  21st  July,  1790. 

My  dear  Temple, 

I  gratefully  acknowledged  the  receipt  of  your  kind 
and  soothing  letter,  directed  to  me  at  Carlisle,  where 
I  was  detained  in  irksome  captivity  from  Sunday  the 
20th  June,  till  Thursday  the  15th  July,  when  I  at 
length  got  free,  and,  with  my  daughter  Euphemia,  ar- 
rived here  about  noon  on  Saturday  the  1 7th.  Though 
my  mind  was  very  sick,  I  soon  felt  relief  in  London. 
I  dined  that  day  quietly  with  Malone.  On  Sunday  I 
was  at  St.  George's  Church,  Hanover  Square,  and 
dined  again  with  Malone,  having  by  mistake  been  too 
late  for  the  Villa  of  Devaynes,  the  apothecary.  On 
Monday  I  and  my  two  daughters  dined  and  passed  the 
day  at  Sir  Joshua  Reynolds's,  where  were  Lord  Eliot 
and  his  son  John,  Mr.  Metcalfe,  Mr.  Malone,  Mr. 
Jepson,  and  Mr.  Devaynes.  Variety  of  company  had 
an  insensible  influence  upon  my  mind ;  but,  whenever 
I  was  alone,  my  depression  of  spirits  recurred.  I  have 
however  dined  yesterday  and  today  at  home  with  my 


DR.  JOHNSON'S  PRINCIPLES  TESTED.          327 

daughters,  and  am  tolerably  well.  On  my  return  to 
town  I  found  a  serious  cause  of  real  anxiety,  my  dear 
little  James  having  been  seriously  ill  of  a  fever  for  near 
a  week,  and  being  still  under  that  alarming  disorder. 
I  thank  God  that  this  day  Dr.  Warren  has  declared 
that  the  fever  has  left  him.  I  am  in  great  concern 
what  should  be  done  with  him,  for  he  is  so  oppressed 
at  Westminster  School  by  the  big  boys  that  I  am  al- 
most afraid  to  send  him  thither ;  but  he  must  be  at 
some  school,  and  changes  are  disadvantageous. 

Your  letter  of  7th  June  was  lying  for  me  here  on 
my  arrival.  You  may  easily  believe  that  I  most  sin- 
cerely sympathise  with  the  uneasy  feelings  which  you 
confess.  What  a  state  are  we  in !  dissatisfied  with 
the  present,  and  longing  for  some  other  situation,  and, 
when  we  reach  that,  very  often  experiencing  more 
uneasiness,  nay,  imagining  that  what  we  wished  to 
quit  was  better.  Surely,  my  dear  friend,  there  must  be 
another  world,  in  which  such  beings  as  we  are  will 
have  our  misery  compensated.  But  is  not  this  a  state 
of  probation  ?  and,  if  it  is,  how  awful  is  the  conside- 
ration !  I  am  struck  with  your  question,  "  Have  you 
confidence  to  entreat  the  Divine  aid  ?" .  In  truth  I  am 
sensible  that  I  do  not  sufficiently  "  try  my  ways,"  as 
the  Psalmist  says,  and  am  even  almost  inclined  to 
think  with  you,  that  my  great  oracle  Johnson  did  allow 
too  much  credit  to  good  principles,  without  good  practice. 
What  advice  can  I  give  you,  my  dear  Temple,  to  be 
pleased  with  yourself,  unless  to  beg  that  you  may  view 
yourself  with  my  eyes  ?  for  instance,  when  I  think  of 


328  LETTERS   OF    BOS  WELL. 

your  creditable  situation  in  the  Church,  while  my  at- 
tempts in  the  Law  have  been  hitherto  so  unsuccessful, 
I  wonder  that  you  are  not  contented,  though  I  would 
not  have  you  satisfied.  And  considering  your  domestic 
disposition,  your,  love  of  books  and  of  rural  scenes, 
you  are  upon  the  whole  vastly  well.  But  let  us  con- 
tribute ah1  we  can  to  each  other's  aid. 

I  did  not  go  to  Ayrshire,  finding  that  I  could  only 
show  how  small  a  party  I  had.  I  shall  keep  up  a 
candidateship,  as  giving  consequence.  I  parted  from 
the  northern  tyrant  in  a  strange,  equivocal  state,  for 
he  was  half  irritated,  half  reconciled ;  but  I  promise 
you  I  shall  keep  myself  quite  independent  of  him. 
Best  compliments  to  all. 

Ever  most  affectionately  yours, 

J.  B. 

P.S. — Veronica  says  she  has  not  found  any  feathers 
left  by  Miss  Temple.  My  Work  had  not  stopped  during 
my  absence.  I  shall  now  persevere  in  diligence  ;  and, 
though  I  am  now  in  woeful  indifference,  I  trust  that 
before  it  is  finished  a  taste  or  relish  shall  return. 

While  in  the  North,  I  got  such  accounts  of  the 
lady  of  fortune,  whose  reputation  you  heard  some- 
thing of,  that  I  was  quite  determined  to  make  no  ad- 
vances. Whether  I  shall  take  any  such  step  I  doubt 
much.  The  loss  I  have  experienced  is  perpetually  re- 
curring ;  and,  though  there  might  be  comforts  in  what 
you  suggested,  I  fear  there  would  be  troubles. 


DEATH  OF  ROSS,  THE  PLAYER.        329 

86.]  London,  Votli  September,  1790. 

My  dear  Temple, 

Your  last  letter  is  truly  kind.  I  intended  to  have 
written  you  a  long  letter  today,  and  for  that  purpose 
obtained  from  Lord  Eliot  the  frank  which  covers  this. 
But  my  old  friend  Ross,  the  player,  died  suddenly 
yesterday  morning.  I  was  sent  for,  as  his  most  par- 
ticular friend  in  town,  and  have  been  so  busy  in  ar- 
ranging his  funeral,  at  which  I  am  to  be  chief  mourner, 
that  I  have  left  myself  very  little  time — only  about 
ten  minutes.  Poor  Ross  !  he  was  an  unfortunate 
man  in  some  respects ;  but  he  was  a  true  bon-vivant, 
a  most  social  man,  and  never  was  without  good  eating 
and  drinking,  and  hearty  companions.  He  had  school- 
fellows and  friends  who  stood  by  him  wonderfully. 
I  have  discovered  that  Admiral  Barrington  once  sent 
him  £100,  and  allowed  him  an  annuity  of  £60  a-year. 

As  to  the  important  part  of  your  letter,  I  should 
not  hesitate  a  moment,  judging  from  the  account 
which  you  give  me  of  the  offer  which  Miss  Temple 
has.  But  I  do  not  clearly  understand  of  what  family 
he  is  ;  I  read  "  Duke  of  Breton."  Pray  write  the  name 
fair,  and  be  more  full.  Is  the  young  gentleman  a 
foreigner  ?  But  I  would  by  no  means  refuse  such  an 
offer.  She  is  indeed  a  charming  girl,  and  was  much 
admired  here,  even  by  the  critic  Malone. 

God  bless  you,  my  dearest  friend,  in  whom  I  have 
the  consolation  of  unaltered  affection,  and  ever  am 

Most  sincerely  yours, 

J.  B. 


330  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

I  shall,  without  fail,  write  again  soon. 

I  have  a  letter  today  from  honest  David :  he  left 
London  on  Tuesday,  half-past  twelve  at  noon,  and  got 
to  Auchinleck  on  Friday. 


87.]  London,  VAth  Nov.  1790. 

My  dear  Temple, 

Instead  of  a  long  letter,  I  write  a  scrap,  and  at  the 
same  time  send  another,  part  of  one  of  an  old  date. 
Pray  do  not  let  your  daughter  refuse  so  good  a  match. 
I  am  in  great  spirits,  and  shall,  upon  my  honour,  write 
fully  this  week. 

Ever  most  affectionately  yours, 

J.  B. 


88.]  London,  1th  February,  1791. 

My  dear  Temple, 

Before  this  time  you  have  been  informed  of  my 
having  had  a  most  miserable  return  of  bad  spirits. 
Not  only  have  I  had  a  total  distaste  of  life,  but  have 
been  perpetually  gnawed  by  a  kind  of  mental  fever. 
It  is  really  shocking  that  human  nature  is  liable  to 
such  inexplicable  distress.  O  my  friend,  what  can  I 
do  ?  In  your  last,  I  find  that  you  are  afflicted  with 
discontent  and  disapprobation  of  yourself, — you,  who 
are  so  learned,  so  elegant,  so  good  a.  man  in  all  the 
relations  of  life.  Your  observation  in  a  former  letter, 
as  to  time  being  measured  not  only  by  days  and  years, 


POLITICS    AND    PROMOTION.  331 

but  by  our  advancement  in  life,  is  new  and  striking, 
and  is  brought  home  to  us  both,  especially  to  me,  who 
have  obtained  no  advancement  whatever ;  but  let  me 
not  harass  you  with  my  complaints,  but  proceed  to 
what  concerns  you  and  yours. 

Miss  Palmer,  who  has,  I  really  believe,  a  sincere 
regard  for  you,  applied  to  Lord  Eliot,  but  all  in  vain. 
I  believe  I  mentioned  to  you  having  been  told  that 
several  of  the  young  men  appointed  by  Lord  Chatham 
had  not  served  their  time,  and  therefore  were  to  be 
struck  off,  so  that  I  hoped  this  might  afford  an  open- 
ing ;  but  what  are  we  to  do,  when  variety  of  interests 
draw  so  strong?  I  met  Jerningham  last  night,  at 
Lord  Lucan's,  and  complimented  him  on  his  new 
poem,  of  which  I  have  read  a  part.  I  spoke  to  him 
about  your  son ;  but,  though  I  believe  well  inclined, 
he  did  not  seem  to  think  he  could  do  much.  I  pro- 
test I  hope  most  from  Dundas.  If  you  will  allow  me 
I  will  try  him  in  my  way,  requesting  he  may  do  a 
kindness  of  much  consequence  to  an  old  friend,  uncon- 
nected with  politics  ;  and  let  me  have  it  to  tell.  You 
should  certainly  write  to  him  again,  either  for  a  vacancy 
now,  or  for  the  Newfoundland  Station  afterwards.  It 
was  a  mistake  to  suppose  that  Hawkins  would  write 
to  Mr.  Pitt :  he  never  said  he  would,  and  he  assures 
me  he  would  not  were  his  own  brother  in  the  case. 
It  is  agreeable  to  think  that  your  son  is  a  fine  manly 
fellow,  and  does  not  seem  to  be  discouraged  though 
his  promotion  should  be  delayed.  What  a  world  is 
this !  Here  again  I  check  myself,  and  go  on.  Your 


332  LETTERS    OF    BOS  WELL. 

daughter  is  indeed  a  most  valuable  young  woman,  and 
we  cannot  be  too  anxious  as  to  her  settlement  in  life. 
I  understood  from  your  son  that  Mr.  Powlett's  attach- 
ment to  her  is  very  strong :  this  is  a  very  favourable 
circumstance,  and  much  to  his  credit.  I  should  wish 
to  see  him.  The  objections  which  Mrs.  Temple  sug- 
gests are  exceedingly  sensible,  but,  if  the  character  of 
the  gentleman  be  steady,  I  should  not  fear  the  effects 
of  his  being  in  the  high  company  you  mention.  At 
the  same  time  I  think  it  essential  that  he  should  have 
a  reasonable  income  upon  some  certainty.  If  either  in 
one  way  or  another  that  is  secured,  I  am  clear  that  the 
match  should  take  place. 

Hawkins  has  been  very  attentive  to  me  this  winter, 
and  we  must  take  him  as  he  is.* 

May  God  bless  you  and  yours,  my  ever  dear  friend, 

prays 

Your  most  affectionate, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


89.]        .  London,  2nd  April,  1791. 

My  dear  Temple, 

I  return  you  Mr.  Powlett's  letter,  with  which  I  am 
much  pleased,  and  having,  according  to  your  desire, 
shown  it  to  honest  David,  we  had  last  night  a  con- 
ference upon  the  subject,  which  is  truly  interesting  to 
your  family.  He  agrees  with  me  that,  if  Mr.  Powlett 
and  your  daughter  can  be  sure  of  £500  a  year,  such  a 
match  ought  by  no  means  to  be  rejected.  He  seems 
*  That  is  "very  malevolent."  Vide  letter  at  page  281. 


MATRIMONY  AND    MONEY.  333 

to  me  to  have  a  very  just  view  of  what  good  may  be 
derived  from  great  connections ;  and,  from  his  having 
had  so  much  experience  of  high  life,  he  is  not  dazzled 
by  it.  If  a  man  can  associate  with  the  great,  and 
escape  from  "  folly,  vanity,  and  vice,"  there  is  no  doubt 
that  his  manners  and  even  sentiments  will  be  refined 
and  elevated ;  and  the  probable  hopes  of  solid  advan- 
tages, to  be  obtained  from  the  regard  of  those  who 
must  have  influence  in  the  disposal  of  offices,  which 
must  be  given  in  general  as  they  desire,  afford  a  rational 
ground  for  perseverance  in  cultivating  their  friendship 
by  all  honourable  means. 

If  then  we  can  be  sure  of  £500  a  year,  and  have 
besides  such  hopes,  I  really  think  it  would  be  unrea- 
sonable to  object  as  to  circumstances.  But,  my  dear 
friend,  let  us  have  a  certainty  of  £500,  or  even  £400 
a  year.  Your  daughter  is  so  amiable  and  accomplished, 
that  I  should  take  a  sincere  interest  in  her  happiness, 
though  she  had  not  the  strong  claim  of  being  my 
Temple's  daughter. 

Your  kindness  to  me  fairly  makes  me  shed  tears. 
Alas  !  I  fear  that  my  constitutional  melancholy,  which 
returns  in  such  dismal  fits,  and  is  now  aggravated  by 
the  loss  of  my  valuable  wife,  must  prevent  me  from 
any  permanent  felicity  in  this  life.  I  snatch  gratifica- 
tions, but  have  no  comfort,  at  least  very  little ;  yet 
your  encouraging  letters  make  me  think  at  times  that 
I  may  yet,  by  God's  blessing,  attain  to  a  portion  of 
happiness,  such  as  philosophy  and  religion  concur  in 
assuring  us  that  this  state  of  progressive  being  allows. 


334  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

I  get  bad  rest  in  the  night,  and  then  I  brood  over  all 
my  complaints, — the  sickly  mind,  which  I  have  had 
from  my  early  years, — the  disappointment  of  my  hopes 
of  success  in  life, — the  irrevocable  separation  between 
me  and  that  excellent  woman,  who  was  my  cousin, 
my  friend,  and  my  wife, — the  embarassment  of  my  af- 
fairs,— the  disadvantage  to  my  children  in  having 
so  wretched  a  father, — nay,  the  want  of  absolute  cer- 
tainty of  being  happy  after  death,  the  sure  prospect  of 
which  is  frightful.  No  more  of  this  ! 

Wednesday,  8th  April. 

Thus  far  I  wrote  on  Saturday,  when,  feeling  myself 
unhappy  and  restless,  I  sallied  out  with  intention  to 
go  to  the  Play  at  Drury  Lane  Theatre,  the  '  Siege  of 
Belgrade,'  a  new  Opera,  of  which  I  had  heard  much 
as  a  gay  exhibition ;  but  the  House  was  so  crowded  I 
could  not  get  in.  I  then  called  on  old  Macklin,  the 
comedian,*  whom  I  found  with  a  mind  active  and 
cheerful,  in  his  ninety-second  or  third  year.  I  could 
not  but  wonder,  while  he  related  theatrical  stories 
sixty  years  old,  and  gave  me  an  animated  sketch  of 
another  Comedy  in  five  Acts,  which  he  has  now  finished 
and  will  come  out  next  year.  Here  sat  I,  forty  years 
younger  than  Mm,  listless  and  desponding,  and  unable 
to  rid  my  mind  of  a  disagreeable  sensation,  as  if  T  had 
been  sitting  in  Edinburgh.  I  really,  my  dear  Temple, 
believe  that  as  much  pain  may  be  suffered  from  anti- 

*Eeferred  to  in  the  'Life  of  Johnson,'  as  having  instructed 
Wedderburn  in  elocution. 


THE  'LIFE    OF    JOHNSON.'  335 

pathies  as  from  almost  any  cause.  Would  it  not  tor- 
ture you  to  be  again  at  Professor  Hunter's,  eating  jeel? 
The  possibility  of  a  disturbed  imagination  reducing 
me  to  the  mode  of  existence  in  my  youth  frightens  me. 
Alas  !  what  real  advances  have  I  made  above  that 
state  ?  How  delusive  is  this  low-spirited  thought !  But 
indeed  I  much  fear  that  to  a  speculating  and  very 
feeling  mind,  all  that  life  affords  will  at  times  appear 
of  no  effect.  When  I  recall  the  infinite  variety  of 
scenes  through  which  I  have  passed,  in  my  moments 
of  sound  sensation,  I  am  elated ;  but  in  moments  of 
depression,  I  either  forget  them  all,  or  they  seem  in- 
different. 

My  '  Life  of  Johnson '  is  at  last  drawing  to  a  close. 
I  am  correcting  the  last  sheet,  and  have  only  to  write 
an  advertisement,  to  make  out  a  note  of  Errata,  and  to 
correct  a  second  sheet  of  Contents,  one  being  done.  I 
really  hope  to  publish  it  on  the  25th  current.  My  old 
and  most  intimate  friend  may  be  sure  that  a  copy  will 
be  sent  to  him.  I  am  at  present  in  such  bad  spirits 
that  I  have  every  fear  concerning  it, — that  I  may  get 
no  profit,  nay,  may  lose, — that  the  Public  may  be  dis- 
appointed, and  think  that  I  have  done  it  poorly, — that 
I  may  make  many  enemies,  and  even  have  quarrels. 
Yet  perhaps  the  very  reverse  of  all  this  may  happen. 

When  my  book  is  launched,  I  shall,  if  I  am  alone 
and  in  tolerable  health  and  spirits,  have  some  furni- 
ture put  into  my  chambers  in  the  Temple,  and  force 
myself  to  sit  there  some  hours  a-day,  and  to  attend 
regularly  in  Westminster  Hall.  The  chambers  cost 


336  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

me  £20  yearly,  and  I  may  reckon  furniture  and  a  lad 
to  attend  there  occasionally  £20  more.  I  doubt  whe- 
ther I  shall  get  fees  equal  to  the  expense.  I  am  to 
dine  with  Sir  William  Scott,  the  King's  Advocate  at 
the  Commons,  tomorrow,  and  shall  have  a  serious  con- 
sultation with  him,  as  he  has  always  encouraged  me. 
It  is  to  be  a  family  party,  where  I  am  to  meet  Miss 
Bagnal  (his  lady's  sister),  who  may  probably  have 
six  or  seven  hundred  a  year.  She  is  about  seven-and- 
twenty,  and  he  tells  me  lively  and  gay — a  Ranelagh 
girl — but  of  excellent  principles,  insomuch  that  she 
reads  prayers  to  the  servants  in  her  father's  family 
every  Sunday  evening.  "  Let  me  see  such  a  woman," 
cried  I ;  and  accordingly  I  am  to  see  her.  She  has 
refused  young  and  fine  gentlemen.  "  Bravo  !"  cried 
I ;  "we  see  then  what  her  taste  is."  Here  then  I 
am,  my  Temple,  my  flattering  self!  A  scheme — an 
adventure  seizes  my  fancy.  Perhaps  I  may  not  like 
her ;  and  what  should  I  do  with  such  a  companion, 
unless  she  should  really  take  a  particular  liking  to  me, 
which  is  surely  not  probable  ;  and,  as  I  am  conscious 
of  my  distempered  mind,  could  I  honestly  persuade  her 
to  unite  her  fate  with  mine  ?  As  to  my  daughters,  did 
I  see  a  rational  prospect  of  good  by  such  a  scheme,  I 
should  not  neglect  it  on  their  account,  though  I  should 
certainly  be  liberal  to  them.  They  have  twice  had  little 
parties  for  cards  and  music,  and  have  done  wonder- 
fully well.  Hawkins  was  with  us  both  times. 

What  a  horrible  rumour  of  war  is  this  !    To  join  the 
Turks  ! — it  must  not  be.    But  perhaps  some  good  may 


RUSSIA    AND    TURKEY.  337 

arise  from  Pitt's  arrogance.  There  may  be  another 
navy  promotion,  and  your  son  may  get  rank.  I  am 
hesitating  whether  I  should  riot  write  one  of  my  cha- 
racteristical  pamphlets  upon  this  crisis, — '  An  Appeal 
to  the  People  upon  the  threatened  Project  of  involving 
this  Country  in  a  War  with  Russia,  in  order  to  assist 
the  Turks.'* 

"  Approach  thou  like  the  rugged  Russian  bear, 
The  arm'd  rhynoceros,  or  Hyrcanian  tyger : 
Take  any  shape  but  that." 

I  am  thinking  to  curtail  my  poem  on  the  Slave 
Trade,  and  throw  it  into  the  world  just  before  the 
great  question  comes  on  next  Wednesday.! 

Pray  let  me  know  the  subject  of  your  intended  pub- 
lication. Worthy  Langton  is  in  town. 

Your  little  friend  James  is  quite  reconciled  to  West- 
minster School,  is  grown  a  manly  fellow :  he,  I  trust, 
will  be  a  prosperous  barrister. 

There  is  no  foundation  for  the  match  between  Miss 
Palmer  and  Dr.  B. :  she  is  angry  at  me  for  talking  of 
it,  but  I  was  only  one  of  many.  Best  compliments 
and  love  to  all  with  you.  Let  me  hear  more  about 

Mr.  Powlett. 

Yours,  etc., 

J.  B. 

*  Alas  !  this  "  characteristical  pamphlet  "  was  never  written — 
otherwise,  it  might  have  been  reprinted  by  the  late  Emperor  of  All 
the  Russias,  besides  being  put  into  the  Appendix  to  this  Volume. 
It  might  also  have  been  copied  or  cited  as  an  Authority  by  some 
journals  of  the  present  day. 

f  This,  it  is  believed,  was  never  published. 

Z 


338 


CHAPTER  XVIII. 

1791-1793. 

PUBLICATION    OF   THE    LIFE  OF   JOHNSON. — A    SECOND    ODYSSEY. 

ADVERTISEMENTS. — THE   HOME  CIRCUIT. ITS   SUPERIORITY 

TO     THE     NORTHERN. NEW     MATRIMONIAL     SCHEMES. —  SIR 

JOSHUA   REYNOLDS'S   BLINDNESS. — JOURNEY   TO   AUCHINLECK. 

— CHOICE    OF    A    MINISTER    FOR  A   PARISH. SECOND   EDITION 

OF  THE  LIFE  OF  JOHNSON. — BOSWELL  INTOXICATED,  ROBBED 
AND    REPENTANT. 

THE  magnum  opus,  the  'Life  of  Johnson/  was  now 
launched.  The  date  of  the  dedication  to  Sir  Joshu* 
Reynolds  is  the  20th  April,  1791.  This  and  the 
'  Advertisements'  to  the  two  editions  of  the  Work  are 
curiously  self-complaisant,  notwithstanding  the  occa- 
sional evil  forebodings  which  harassed  the  Biographer. 
"  It  seems,"  says  Boswell,  "  in  my  moments  of  self- 
complacency,  that  this  extensive  biographical  work, 
however  inferior  in  its  nature,  may  in  one  respect 
be  assimilated  to  the  Odyssey.  Amidst  a  thousand 
entertaining  and  instructive  episodes,  the  hero  is  never 
long  out  of  sight,  for  they  are  all  in  some  degree  con- 
nected with  him ;  and  he,  in  the  whole  course  of  the 
history,  is  exhibited  by  the  author  for  the  best  ad- 
vantage of  his  readers  : 


PUBLICATION    OF    DR.    JOHNSON'S    LIFE.          339 

'  Quid  virtus  et  quid  sapientia  possit, 
Utile  proposuit  nobis  exemplar  Ulyssem.' 

Should  there  be  any  cold-blooded  or  morose  mortals 
who  really  dislike  this  book,  I  will  give  them  a  story 
to  apply.  When  the  great  Duke  of  Marlborough,  ac- 
companied by  Lord  Cadogan,  was  one  day  reconnoi- 
tring the  army  in  Flanders,  a  heavy  rain  came  on, 
and  they  both  called  for  their  cloaks.  Lord  Cado- 
gan's  servant,  a  good-humoured,  alert  lad,  brought  his 
Lordship's  in  a  minute ;  the  Duke's  servant,  a  lazy, 
sulky  dog,  was  so  sluggish,  that  his  Grace,  being  wet 
to  the  skin,  reproved  him,  and  had  for  an  answer,  with 
a  grunt,  '  I  came  as  fast  as  I  could ;'  upon  which  the 
Duke  calmly  said,  '  Cadogan  !  I  would  not  for  a  thou- 
sand pounds  have  that  fellow's  temper.'  "  * 

Thus  summarily  Boswell  disposes  of  hostile  critics. 
It  was  not  necessary  for  him  however  to  fear  them, 
for  the  success  of  his  great  Biography  was  immediate. 
He  tells  us  indeed  that  in  four  months  twelve  hundred 
copies  were  disposed  of,  a  number  certainly  very  con- 
siderable in  those  days. 

In  July,  1793,  the  second  edition  appeared,  with 
"  eight  sheets  of  additional  matter."  This  was  a 
cause  of  great  delight  to  Boswell,  and  he  expresses  his 
satisfaction  in  a  very  characteristic  manner  :  he  says, 
"  There  are  some  men,  I  believe,  who  have,  or  think 
they  have,  a  very  small  share  of  vanity.  Such  may 
speak  of  their  literary  fame  in  a  decorous  style  of  dif- 
fidence ;  but  I  confess  that  I  am  so  formed  by  nature 

*  Advertisement  to  Second  Edition  of  '  Life  of  Johnson.' 

Y.2 


340  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

and  by  habit,  that  to  restrain  the  effusion  of  delight, 
on  having  obtained  such  fame,  to  me  would  be  truly 
painful.  Why  then  should  I  suppress  it  ?  Why  '  out 
of  the  abundance  of  the  heart'  should  I  not  speak  ? 
Let  me  then  mention,  with  a  warm,  but  no  insolent 
exultation,  that  I  have  been  regaled  with  spontaneous 
praise  of  my  work  by  many  and  various  persons,  emi- 
nent for  their  rank,  learning,  talents,  and  accomplish- 
ments ;  much  of  which  praise  I  have  under  their  hands, 
to  be  reposited  in  my  archives  at  Auchinleck.  An 
honourable  and  reverend  friend,  speaking  of  the  fa- 
vourable reception  of  my  volumes,  even  in  the  circles 
of  fashion  and  elegance,  said  to  me,  '  You  have  made  -i 
them  ah!  talk  Johnson.'  Yes,  I  may  add,  I  have  Jokn- 
sonized  the  land ;  and  I  trust  they  will  not  only  talk, 
but  think  Johnson."* 

The  unfortunate  habit  of  drinking,  which  seems  at 
this  time  to  have  had  firm  hold  of  Bos  well,  was  the 
cause  of  his  meeting  with  an  accident  and  being 
robbed,  which  led  however  only  to  his  making  another 
of  his  many  but  fruitless  resolutions  to  reform  and 
live  soberly. 

90.J  London,  22nd  August,  1791. 

My  dear  Temple, 

Do  not  look  upon  me  as  unkind,  because  you  have 
not  heard  from  me  for  some  time.  My  heart  has  been 
ever  warm,  but  I  have  had  my  spirits  dissipated  ;  and 

*  Advertisement  to  Second  Edition,  1st  July,  1793 ;  and  see 
ante,  p.  327. 


THE    HOME    AND    NORTHERN    CIRCUITS.  341 

now  I  write  at  midnight,  on  the  eve  of  setting  out  for 
Auchinleck.  My  eldest  son  went  thither,  some  time 
ago,  to  enjoy  the  grouse-shooting  :  I  trusted  him  alone, 
as  he  is  a  steady  boy. 

I  have  gone  the  full  round  of  the  Home  Circuit,  to 
which  I  have  returned,  finding  it  much  more  plea- 
sant,* and,  though  I  did  not  get  a  single  brief,  do  not 
repent  of  the  expense,  as  I  am  showing  myself  desir- 
ous of  business  and  imbibing  legal  knowledge.  I 
made  an  excursion  to  Portsmouth  and  viewed  the  grand 
fleet,  and  there  I  was  assured  that  the  most  difficult 
step  in  the  Navy  is  from  Midshipman  to  Lieutenant. 
My  first  letter  to  Dundas,  concerning  your  son,  was 
repeating  my  words  to  you,  that  I  was  afraid  he  did 

*  The  distinction  here  made  between  the  Northern  and  Home 
Circuits,  and  in  favour  of  the  latter,  will  not,  it  is  to  be  hoped,  pro- 
duce any  ill  feeling  between  the  two  august  bodies.  From  anxious 
inquiries  which  have  been  made  with  reference  to  the  comparison 
here  suggested  by  Boswell,  the  conclusion  has  been  arrived  at,  that 
the  Home  Circuit  still  maintains,  in  addition  to  its  high  legal  repu- 
tation, that  gravity,  decorum,  and  sobriety  (especially  amongst  the 
juniors)  which  impressed  Boswell  so  forcibly.  It  is  stated,  that 
even  at  the  Mess  on  "  grand  days,"  which  might  offer  occasion  for 
greater  freedom  and  conviviality,  nothing  is  to  be  heard  except  ab- 
struse legal  questions  formally  and  reverently  discussed,  or  import- 
ant points  connected  with  social  and  legislative  matters  learnedly 
and  temperately  debated.  It  should  however  be  also  here  men- 
tioned, that  it  is  stated  on  other  authority  that  the  very  reverse 
of  the  above  account  is,  and  always  has  been,  the  truth.  It  is  not 
incumbent  upon  the  writer  of  this  note  to  determine  what  the  facts 
are ;  but  he  may  suggest,  that  the  variation  in  the  information  may 
in  part  have  arisen  from  the  different  periods  of  the  evening  at  which 
the  gentlemen  who  have  been  good  enough  to  communicate  with  the 
publisher  on  the  subject  were  wont  to  leave  the  mess-table. — ED. 


342  LETTERS    OF    BOS  WELL. 

not  like  me  (or  something  to  that  effect),  but  that  I 
believed  him  to  be  a  generous  fellow,  and  therefore 
advised  you  to  apply  to  him.  I  mentioned  to  you  how 
cordially  he  expressed  himself  towards  your  son  when  I 
saw  him,  and  that  he  was  to  make  a  memorandum.  I 
transmitted  to  him,  from  the  Circuit,  your  last  letter  in 
one  from  myself,  and  I  cannot  doubt  of  his  sincerity  and 
zeal  when  an  occasion  offers.  What  a  life  have  Midship- 
men !  yet  all  our  Admirals  have  passed  through  it.* 

I  feel  for  what  you  say  as  to  a  certain  person ;  bu 
trust  it  was  a  casual  cloud.     Mr.  Powlett  has  never 
appeared :  I  shall  be  glad  to  see  him. 

You  must  know  I  have  had  several  matrimonial 
schemes  of  late.  I  shall  amuse  you  with  them  from 
Auchinleck.  One  was  with  Miss  Milles,  daughter  of 
the  late  Dean  of  Exeter,  a  most  agreeable  woman 
"d'un  certain  age,"  and  with  a  fortune  of  £10,000  : 
she  has  left  town  for  the  summer.  It  was  no  small 
circumstance  that  she  said  to  me,  "  Mr.  Temple  is  a 
charming  man."  I  hope  to  be  here  again  on  the  1st  of 
October.  My  magnum  opus  sells  wonderfully ;  twelve 
hundred  are  now  gone,  and  we  hope  the  whole  seven- 
teen hundred  may  be  gone  before  Christmas.  I  must 
go  to  bed. 

Ever  most  affectionately  yours, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


*  An  original  aud  very  comforting  reflection,  both  for  Admirals 
and  Midshipmen ! 


BOSWELL'S  WIDOWED  LIFE.  343 

91.]  London,  22«d  November,  1791. 

My  dear  Temple, 

Another  sad  chasm  in  our  correspondence  is  to  be 
lamented.  I  wrote  to  you  before  I  went  to  Scotland  : 
since  then  I  have  not  heard  from  you,  except  by  re- 
ceiving a  few  lines  with  an  order  to  receive  the  title- 
deeds  of  Allardeen.  Pray  what  would  you  have  done 
about  that  matter,  as  my  visit  to  you  cannot  be  for  a 
long  time  ? 

I  had  a  very  unhappy  time  in  Ayrshire.  My  house 
at  Auchinleck  seemed  deserted  and  melancholy ;  and 
it  brought  upon  my  mind,  with  increased  force,  the  re- 
collection of  my  having  lost  my  dear  and  valuable  wife. 
My  London  spirits  were  soon  exhausted ;  I  sank  into 
languor  and  gloom ;  I  felt  myself  very  unfit  to  trans- 
act business  with  my  tenants,  or  indeed  with  anybody. 
To  escape  from  what  I  felt  at  Auchinleck,  I  visited  a 
good  deal,  but  alas  !  I  could  not  escape  from  myself : 
in  short  you  may  see  that  I  was  exceedingly  ill.  I 
hoped  to  be  relieved  when  I  got  to  London ;  but  my 
depression  of  spirits  has  continued ;  and  still,  though 
I  go  into  jovial  scenes,  I  feel  no  pleasure  in  existence, 
except  the  mere  gratification  of  the  senses.  Oh,  my 
friend,  this  is  sad  ! 

I  have  imagined  that  I  was  quite  unable  to  write  a 
letter.  I  was  glad  to  find  that  there  was  warmth 
enough  remaining  about  my  heart  to  animate  me  to 
answer,  in  two  posts,  an  anxious  letter  which  I  re- 
ceived from  your  son,  on  his  return  from  Newfound- 
land. Poor  fellow !  I  sincerely  feel  for  his  situation, 


344  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

of  which  (as  I  mentioned  to  him)  I  have  a  stronger 
impression  since  passing  a  day  and  a  night  on  board  of 
Captain  Macbride's  ship,  in  the  grand  fleet,  last  sum- 
mer. I  have  assured  your  son  that  I  shall  not  fail  to 
remind  Mr.  Dundas  of  his  kind  promise.  What  more 
can  be  done? 

My  spirits  have  been  still  more  sunk  by  seeing  Sir 
Joshua  Reynolds  almost  as  low  as  myself.  He  has,  for 
more  than  two  months  past,  had  a  pain  in  his  blind 
eye,  the  effect  of  which  has  been  to  occasion  a  weak- 
ness in  the  other,  and  he  broods  over  the  dismal  appre- 
hension of  becoming  quite  blind.  He  has  been  kept 
so  low  as  to  diet  that  he  is  quite  relaxed  and  despond- 
ing. He  who  used  to  be  looked  upon  as  perhaps  the 
most  happy  man  in  the  world,  is  now  as  I  tell  you. 
I  force  myself  to  be  a  great  deal  with  him,  to  do  what 
is  in  my  power  to  amuse  him.  Your  friend  Miss 
Palmer's  assiduity  and  attention  to  him  in  every  re- 
spect is  truly  charming. 

Am  I  to  hear  no  more  of  Miss  Temple's  lover  ?  I 
keep  chambers  open  in  the  Temple,  I  attend  in  West- 
minster Hall,  but  there  is  not  the  least  prospect  of  my 
having  business. 

This  is  a  desponding,  querulous  letter,  which  I  have 
wished  these  several  weeks  to  write.  Pray  try  to  do 
me  some  good.  My  daughters  join  me  in  best  com- 
pliments, and  I  ever  am 

Most  affectionately  yours, 

J.  «B. 


ECCLESIASTICAL    PATRONAGE.  345 

92.]  London,  Wtli  March,  1792. 

My  dear  Temple, 

Still  I  cannot  write  a  long  letter,  though  I  got  a 
frank  yesterday  on  purpose  from  the  Bishop  of  Lon- 
don. I  had  this  morning  the  pleasure  of  Mr.  Pow- 
lett's  company  at  breakfast,  and  like  him  much.  He 
is  to  take  a  part  of  our  family  dinner  on  Sunday. 
I  ever  am 

Most  affectionately  yours, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


93.]  London,  26th  February,  1793. 

My  dear  Temple, 

I  have  no  time  now  for  our  usual  reflections  on 
wretched  dilatory  habits.  I  have  from  day  to  day 
been  uneasy  that  I  did  not  answer  your  kind  letters  ; 
and  now  I  am  within  a  few  hours  of  setting  out  for 
Auchinleck,  honest  David  having  secured  me  a  place 
in  the  Carlisle  coach  to  Ferry  Bridge,  that  I  may  have 
an  opportunity  to  stop  should  I  be  too  much  fatigued. 
It  is  quite  right  that  I  should  now  go  down.  The 
choice  of  a  minister  to  a  worthy  parish  is  a  matter  of 
very  great  importance,  and  I  cannot  be  sure  of  the 
real  wishes  of  the  people  without  being  present.  Only 
think,  Temple,  how  serious  a  duty  I  am  about  to  dis- 
charge !  I,  James  Boswell,  Esq. — you  know  what 
vanity  that  name  includes  ! — I  have  promised  to  come 
down*  on  purpose,  and  his  Honour's  goodness  is  grate- 
fully acknowledged.  Besides,  I  have  several  matters 


346  LETTERS    OF    BO  SWELL. 

of  consequence  to  my  estate  to  adjust ;  and  though  the 
journey  will  no  doubt  be  uncomfortable,  and  my  being 
alone  in  that  house,  where  once  I  was  so  happy,  be 
dreary  in  a  woful  degree,  the  consciousness  of  duty, 
and  being  busy,  will  I  hope  support  me.  I  shall  write 
to  you,  my  friend,  from  my  Seat.  I  am  to  be  there 
only  about  three  weeks ;  for  I  return  early  in  April,  to 
appear  in  an  Appeal  before  the  House  of  Lords,  and  to 
publish  the  second  edition  of  my  '  Life  of  Johnson,' 
for  which  I  have  lately  received  some  more  additions 
of  great  value. 

Meantime  I  send  you,  from  Payne's  catalogue,  small 
edition  of  Brumoy,  'Theatre  des  Grecs;'  Thornton's 
'Plautus'  (I  forget  the  price — they  are  above  £4.4$.); 
also,  Horsley's  (Bishop  of  St.  David's)  Sermon ;  Hay's 
ditto ;  'Village,'  a  poem,  by  the  same  author ;  ' The 
Library,'  a  poem,  as  suited  to  your  present  zeal ;  and 
a  Letter  to  Fox,  reckoned  the  best  pamphlet  that  has 
appeared  for  some  time. 

From  myself  please  to  receive,  Print  of  Dr.  John- 
son ;  two  numbers  of  '  European  Magazine,'  containing 
memoirs  of  your  friend ;  an  excellent  little  tract  on 
Contentment,  by  Dr.  Paley.  I  can  add  no  more  now, 
but  that  I  ever  am 

Most  affectionately  yours, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


94.]  London,  2Ist  June,  1793. 

My  dear  Temple, 
Behold  my  hand!     The  robbery  is  only  of  a  few 


ACCIDENT    AND    REPENTANCE.  347 

shillings ;  but  the  cut  on  my  head  and  bruises  on  my 
arms  were  sad  things,  and  confined  me  to  bed,  in  pain 
and  fever  and  helplessness,  as  a  child,  many  days.  By 
means  of  Surgeon  Earle  and  Apothecary  Devaynes,  I 
am  now,  I  thank  God,  pretty  well.  This  however 
shall  be  a  crisis  in  my  life :  I  trust  I  shall  henceforth 
be  a  sober,  regular  man.  Indeed,  my  indulgence  in 
wine  has,  of  late  years  especially,  been  excessive.  You 
remember  what  Lord  Eliot  said,  nay,  what  you,  I  am 
sorry  to  think,  have  seen.  Your  suggestion  as  to  my 
being  carried  off  in  a  state  of  intoxication  is  awful.  I 
thank  you  for  it,  my  dear  friend.  It  impressed  me 
much,  I  assure  you. 

Your  somewhat  mysterious  letter  (without  a  date) 
alarmed  me,  but  not  greatly;  because,  though  I  guess 
what  you  mean,  I  have  confidence  in  your  good  sense 
and  spirit.  You  have  had  experience  of  such  tender 
folly,  and,  after  it  was  past,  have  been  sensible  how 
weak  it  was.  I  am  at  the  same  time  aware  that  a 
new  instance  seems  stronger  than  any  former  one,  and 
therefore  gives  us  trouble,  unless  we  call  in  reason  to 
our  relief.  /,  who  have  often  been  the  victim  of  such 
feverishness,  know  that  the  best  cure  is  diversion ;  and 
therefore,  if  you  find  the  complaint  obstinate,  remove 
from  St.  Gluvias  for  a  time,  and  dissipate  yourself  in 
some  place  where  you  can  have  variety.  But  I  con- 
jure you  to  send  me  a  promise  that  you  will  not  act 
without  my  consent. 

I  will  do  what  I  can  as  to  John  James  and  Octavius. 
I  have  good  interest  at  Eton,  and  shall  be  there  soon. 


348  LETTERS    OF   BOSWELL. 

Sir  Kit  shall  be  applied  to  for  a  safe  conveyance  of 
your  deeds. 

The  printer  is  very  slow  with  my  second  edition  :  I 
hope  to  have  it  out  next  week.  The  additions  (above 
eight  sheets)  shall  be  sent  to  you.  My  Continental 
tour  is  to  hold. 

I  ever  am,  my  dear  Temple, 

Most  affectionately  yours, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


95.]  London,  I4tk  October,  1793. 

My  dear  Temple, 

Your  kind  letter  on  your  return  home  was  truly 
consolatory  to  me.  I  have,  as  a  salvo  for  my  indolent 
procrastination,  thought  of  waiting  till  the  long  letter 
which  you  promised  a  few  days  afterwards  should 
come,  so  that  I  might  answer  both  at  a  time ;  but  I 
can  no  longer  defer  sending  you  at  least  a  token  that 
I  am  alive,  and  that  my  affectionate  regard  for  you  is 
constant.  My  spirits  are  somewhat  better,  but  by  no 
means  right  yet.  The  day  after  you  left  us  a  nephew 
of  my  wife's,  a  most  deserving  young  man,  who  has 
been  fifteen  years  an  officer  in  the  East  India  Com- 
pany's service,  almost  continually  in  the  field,  and  yet 
only  a  subaltern,  arrived  unexpectedly,  having  been 
obliged  to  come  home  on  account  of  bad  health ;  he 
has  been  very  unfortunate ;  for  he  has  been  three  times 
obliged  to  quit  the  country  by  reason  of  the  dangerous 


A  WIDOWER'S  REFLECTIONS.  349 

liver  complaint,  and  this  last  time  he  lost  a  very  pro- 
fitable appointment  of  Muster- Master  to  the  Southern 
Army;  he  has  not  acquired  above  £3000,  but,  by  suc- 
cession, has  about  £6000  more;  and  after  such  re- 
peated warnings,  he  must  not  return  to  a  climate  so 
hostile  to  his  health.  He  is  now  quite  recovered  by 
change  of  climate.  Such,  my  dear  friend,  are  the  dis- 
appointments to  which  poor  mortals  are  subject.  I 
do  not  wonder  at  Frankys  impatience  and  piteous 
letters ;  but  I  find  that  lieutenants  are  made  only  as 
they  are  wanted  for  particular  ships.  I  trust  that, 
after  what  Dundas  said  to  you,  your  son  cannot  fail 
to  be  nominated  soon,  and  that  before  he  sails. 

I  congratulate  you  on  the  removal  of  your  trouble- 
some guests.  What  a  shocking  thing  was  it  to  treat 
poor  Octavius  as  they  did.!  You  see,  when  love  is  in 
the  case,  other  affections  give  way  in  a  daughter.  You 
must  consider  your  own  happiness,  my  dear  friend, 
while  you  do  liberal  duty  to  your  children,  as  I  am 
sure  you  will  do.  This  is  my  own  resolution;  and 
were  I  to  see  a  proper  object  I  should  act  accordingly, 
supposing  I  could  really  see  a  prospect  of  mutual 
happiness.  I  am  sorry  that  the  delusion  is  not  yet 
quite  gone ;  it  will  trouble  your  mind  in  many  views, 
but  I  flatter  myself  you  will  get  the  better  of  it. 

It  pleases  me  much  that  you  think  so  well  of  my 
daughters ;  and  in  truth,  when  my  judgment  is  clear 
and  my  temper  not  irritated,  I  think  of  them  as  you 
do. 

My  brother  has  had  a  letter  from  John  James,— 


350  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

raueh  better  reconciled  to  Eton :  be  not  then  uneasy 
about  him. 

I  am  not  yet  in  a  frame  to  write  as  I  could  wish  to 
you ;  I  can  only  assure  you  of  my  regret  that  I  was  so 
ill  when  you  were  last  with  me,  and  that 

I  ever  am,  my  dear  friend, 

Yours  most  affectionately, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 

P.S. — Best  compliments  from  my  daughters  and 
James. 


351 


CHAPTER  XIX. 

1794-1795. 

INDISPOSITION. —  FRENCH    REVOLUTION. —  INTEMPERANCE    AND 

REMORSE. — SERIOUS  ILLNESS. LETTERS  FROM  BOSWELL's  SON 

AND  BROTHER. — BOSWELL's    DEATH. 

IN  a  letter  to  his  father  (April  the  8th,  1795)  the 
younger  Mr.  Temple,  after  acknowledging  the  kind- 
ness which  Miss  Boswell  and  her  sister  had  shown 
him,  proceeds  to  mention  that  "  a  few  nights  ago 
Mr.  Boswell  returned  from  the  Literary  Club  quite 
weak  and  languid."  He  however  recovered  from  this 
attack,  at  least  partially ;  but  the  disease  had  laid  hold 
of  his  weakened  constitution,  and  Mr.  Temple  hears  in 
a  few  days  of  the  serious  illness  of  his  friend,  from 
whom  he  receives  only  one  more  letter  in  his  own 
handwriting.  The  last  letter  he  had  from  Boswell, 
before  his  final  illness,  is  as  follows  : — 

96.]  London,  3lst  May,  1794. 

My  dear  Temple, 

Your  fall  has  suggested  serious  and  anxious  thoughts 
indeed.      In  a  moment,  that  awful  separation  which 


352  LETTERS    OF    BOS  WELL. 

we  so  much  dread  might  have  taken  place.  How 
thankful  am  I  that  it  is  no  worse !  That  you  have 
been  upon  horseback  again  is  a  sign  that  no  essential 
and  lasting  injury  has  been  sustained. 

All  your  packets  came  safely.  It  would  have  ap- 
peared better  if  you  had  divided  them  by  two  posts ; 
but  Courtenay  is  very  good,  as  a  private  friend, 
and,  as  he  lives  very  near  me,  I  get  my  letters  very 
speedily.* 

You  have  taken  great  pains  in  reading  and  tran- 
scribing such  a  number  of  Illustrations,  which  are 
truly  strong  warnings  against  the  horrible  proceedings 
in  France.  But  Mr.  Dilly  would  not  risk  printing 
even  the  Sermon ;  and  the  Illustrations  would  occasion 
double  or  treble  the  expense.  Mr.  Malone  is  clear  that 
a  Fast  Sermon  would  not  sell  now ;  so  is  the  Bishop  of 
Salisbury,  whom  I  consulted.  His  Lordship  said,  that 
if  you,  in  order  to  do  good,  should  print  your  Sermon, 
you  may  give  it  away ;  but  that  such  a  number  of 
writings  against  the  French  Revolution  have  now  ap- 
peared, that  a  Sermon  on  the  subject  would  not  be 
bought.  You  must  console  yourself  with  your  worthy 
intentions,  and  labor  ipse  voluntas.  I  am  shocked  to 
hear  of  the  scandalous  conduct  of  three  of  your  Cor- 
nish clergymen.  Indeed,  every  man  who  is  not  zealous 
against  every  democratical  motion  at  present  appears 
to  me  infatuated.  From  what  you  write,  I  am  glad 
I  saw  no  more  of  Grantham  when  he  was  in  town ; 
I  send  you  his  letter  to  me. 

*  Mr.  Courtenay's  franks  frequently  appear  on  Boswell's  letters. 


BOSWELI/S    LAST    LETTER.  353 

I  thank  you  sincerely  for  your  friendly  admonition 
on  my  frailty  in  indulging  so  much  in  wine.  I  do  re- 
solve anew  to  be  upon  my  guard,  as  I  am  sensible 
how  very  pernicious  as  well  as  disreputable  such  a 
habit  is.  How  miserably  have  I  yielded  to  it  in  various 
years  !  Recollect  what  General  Paoli  said  to  you, — 
recollect  what  happened  at  Berwick. 

You  seem  too  violent  against  D on  account  of 

Miss  M .  I  have  heard  "  alteram  partem."  But 

I  will  try  to  persuade  him  to  get  the  apothecary's 
bill  paid  for  her.  You  must  not  consider  her  by  any 
means  as  having  the  extraordinary  strong  claims  on 
the  Admiral.  The  £40  annuity  will,  I  doubt  not,  be 
certain.  The  post-bell  rings. 

Yours  ever, 

J.  B. 


97.] 

My  dear  Temple, 

I  would  fain  write  to  you  in  my  own  hand,  but 
really  cannot.  [These  words,  which  are  hardly  legible, 
and  probably  the  last  poor  Boswell  ever  wrote,  afford 
the  clearest  evidence  of  his  utter  physical  prostration.] 
Alas,  my  friend,  what  a  state  is  this !  My  son  James 
is  to  write  for  me  what  remains  of  this  letter,  and  I 
am  to  dictate.  The  pain  which  continued  for  so  many 
weeks  was  very  severe  indeed,  and  when  it  went  off  I 
thought  myself  quite  well ;  but  I  soon  felt  a  convic- 
tion that  I  was  by  no  means  as  I  should  be — so  ex- 
ceedingly weak,  as  my  miserable  attempt  to  write  to 

2  A 


354  LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

you  afforded  a  full  proof.     All  then  that  can  be  said 
is,  that  I  must  wait  with  patience. 

But,  O  my  friend  !  how  strange  is  it  that,  at  this 
very  time  of  my  illness,  you  and  Miss  Temple  should 
have  been  in  such  a  dangerous  state.  Much  occasion 
for  thankfulness  is  there  that  it  has  not  been  worse 
with  you.  Pray  write,  or  make  somebody  write,  fre- 
quently. I  feel  myself  a  good  deal  stronger  today, 
notwithstanding  the  scrawl.  God  bless  you,  my  dear 
Temple  !  I  ever  am  your  old  and  affectionate  friend, 
here  and  I  trust  hereafter, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 

To  this  letter  the  following  lines  from  his  son  James 
are  appended : — 

Postscript. 

Dear  Sir, 

You  will  find  by  the  foregoing,  the  whole  of  which 
was  dictated  by  my  father,  that  he  is  ignorant  of  the 
dangerous  situation  in  which  he  was,  and,  I  am  sorry 
to  say,  still  continues  to  be.  Yesterday  and  today  he 
has  been  somewhat  better,  and  we  trust  that  the  nou- 
rishment which  he  is  now  able  to  take,  and  his  strong 
constitution,  will  support  him  through. 

I  remain,  with  respect, 

JAMES  BOSWELL,  JUN. 

Another  note,  of  April  8th,  1795,  is  also  annexed 
to  the  above,  as  follows  : — 


BOSWELL'S  LAST  ILLNESS.  355 

Reverend  Sir, 

My  father  being  still  unable  to  write,  I  again  give 
you  what  information  I  can,  which  is  only  that  he 
continued  for  a  considerable  time,  since  I  wrote  last, 
to  be  in  a  state  of  extraordinary  pain  and  weakness. 

He  is  now,  I  thank  God,  a  great  deal  recovered,  and 
the  pain  almost  gone :  the  greatest  care  is  taken  of 
him.  The  advice  of  Dr.  Warren,  Mr.  Earle  the  sur- 
geon, Mr.  Devaynes  the  apothecary,  and  Mr.  Kingston, 
who  has  been  bred  up  under  him,  have  all  in  their 
different  departments  contributed  towards  the  re- 
covery. 

I  am,  with  great  regard,  Reverend  Sir, 

Your  obedient  humble  servant, 

JAMES  BOSWELL,  JUN. 


A  few  days  later,  Boswell  suffers  a  relapse.  Being 
anxious  that  his  friend  Temple  should  hear  from  him, 
he  directs  his  son  James  to  write,  which  he  does  to 
to  the  following  effect : — 

Great  Portland  Street, 

nth  April,  1795. 

My  father  desires  me  to  tell  you,  that  on  Tuesday 
evening  he  was  taken  ill  with  a  fever,  attended  with  a 
severe  shivering  and  violent  headache,  disorder  in  his 
stomach  and  throwing  up  :  he  has  been  close  con- 
fined to  bed  ever  since.  He  thinks  himself  better 

2  A  2 


LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 

today,  but  cannot  conjecture  when  he  shall  recover. 
His  affection  for  you  remains  the  same.     You  will 
receive  a  long  and  full  letter  from  him. 
I  am,  Reverend  Sir, 

Your  most  obedient,  humble  servant, 

JAMES  BOSWELL,  JUN. 


The  disease  is  however  not  to  be  conquered,  and 
there  remains  but  little  hope.  Boswell's  brother  thus 
writes  a  few  days  later  (on  the  4th  of  May :) — "  I  am 
sorry  to  say  my  poor  brother  is  in  the  most  imminent 
danger;  a  swelling  in  his  bladder  has  mortified,  but 
he  is  yet  alive,  and  God  Almighty  may  restore  him  to 
us !"  The  weakness  increases,  and  baffles  the  skill  of 
Dr.  Warren,  one  of  the  most  eminent  practitioners  of 
the  day,  and  who  had  attended,  it  will  be  remembered, 
Dr.  Johnson  on  his  deathbed. 

The  two  following  letters  tell  the  concluding  part  of 
the  sad  story : — 

Monday,  \%th  May,  1795. 

Dear  Sir, 

I  am  sorry  to  inform  you  that,  since  I  wrote  last,  my 
father  is  considerably  worse ;  he  is  weaker,  and  almost 
all  the  nourishment  he  takes  comes  off  his  stomach 
again.  He  had  expressed  a  very  earnest  desire  to  be 
lifted  out  of  bed,  and  Mr.  Earle,  the  surgeon,  thought 
it  might  be  done  with  safety ;  but  his  strength  was  not 
equal  to  it,  and  he  fainted  away.  Since  that,  he  has 


THE    LAST    SCENE.  357 

been  in  a  very  bad  way  indeed,  and  there  are  now,  I 
fear,  little  or  no  hopes  of  his  recovery. 
I  am,  dear  Sir, 

With  greatest  respect,  yours,  etc. 

JAMES  BOSWELL  (JuN.). 


London,  \%th  May,  1795. 

My  dear  Sir, 

I  have  now  the  painful  task  of  informing  you  that 
my  dear  brother  expired  this  morning  at  two  o'clock  : 
we  have  both  lost  a  kind,  affectionate  friend,  and  I 
shall  never  have  such  another.  He  has  suffered  a 
great  deal  during  his  illness,  which  has  lasted  five 
weeks,  but  not  much  in  his  last  moments.  May  God 
Almighty  have  mercy  upon  his  soul,  and  receive  him 
into  His  heavenly  kingdom !  He  is  to  be  buried  at 
Auchinleck,  for  which  place  his  sons  will  set  out  in 
two  or  three  days.  They  and  his  two  eldest  daugh- 
ters have  behaved  in  the  most  affectionate,  exemplary 
manner  during  his  confinement :  they  all  desire  to 
be  kindly  remembered  to  you  and  Miss  Temple,  and 
beg  your  sympathy  on  this  melancholy  occasion. 

I  am,  my  dear  Sir, 

Your  affectionate,  humble  servant, 

T.  D.  BOSWELL. 


The  remains  of  Boswell  were  removed  to  Auchin- 
leck to  be  interred.     On  his  coffin-plate  was  inscribed 


358 


LETTERS    OF    BOSWELL. 


his  name,  the  date  of  his  death,  (May  19th,  1795,)  and 
his  age,  fifty-five  years.* 

Thus  terminated  in  this  world  the  career  of  James 
Boswell;  it  cannot  be  said  prematurely,  for  he  had 
finished  the  work  allotted  him.  The  particular  and 
perhaps  anomalous  part  appointed  for  him  to  play  on 
the  stage  of  Life,  was  now  played  out. 

Although  the  preceding  pages  may  have  disclosed 
undoubted  defects  in  Boswell's  character,  yet  they  also 
exhibit  genuine  and  excellent  qualities,  for  which  the 
world  hitherto  has  not  given  him  credit ;  and  which 
indeed  are  all  the  more  to  be  admired  from  the  fact 
that  they  were  never  extinguished — though  they  may 
have  been  occasionally  obscured — by  the  lower  and 
ignoble  influences  to  which  his  imperfect  nature  was 
unfortunately  subject. 


*  The  date  assigned  to  his  birth  is  October  29th,  1740. 


359 


ADDITIONAL  LETTERS. 


IT  has  been  already  noticed  in  the  Introduction  to 
this  Volume,  that  Boswell  carried  on  and  published 
a  humorous  correspondence  with  the  Hon.  Andrew 
Erskine.*  Some  specimens  of  this  are  here  subjoined. 
The  Advertisement  to  the  Volume  containing  these 
Epistles  sets  forth,  as  the  grounds  for  their  publica- 
tion, the  universal  "  curiosity"  which  prevails  with  re- 
gard to  reading  other  people's  letters.  The  main  rea- 
sons however  for  reprinting  some  of  them  now  are, 
that  they  are  both  funny  and  illustrative,  in  some  de- 
gree, of  one  portion  of  the  minor  literature  of  the  last 
century. 

Captain  Erskine,  as  well  as  his  correspondent,  af- 
fected literature,  having  published,  amongst  other 
trifles,  certain  '  Town  Eclogues.'  The  object  of  these 
verses  was,  says  the  author,  "  to  expose  the  false  taste 
for  florid  descriptions  which  prevail  so  universally  in 
modern  poetry."  The  Eclogues,  although  not  devoid 
of  humour,  do  not  merit  restoration  to  the  literature  of 
our  own  day. 

*  See  also  page  16. 


360  ADDITIONAL    LETTEES. 

The  correspondence  between  Erskine  and  Boswell 
is  commenced  by  the  latter,  as  follows : — 

Auchinleck,  August  Ibth,  1761. 

Dear  Erskine, 

No  ceremony,  I  beseech  you !  Give  me  your  hand. 
How  is  my  honest  Captain  Andrew  ?  How  goes  it 

with  the  elegant,  gentle  Lady  A ?    the  lovely, 

sighing  Lady  J •  ?    and  how,  oh,  how,  does  that 

glorious  luminary  Lady  B •  do?    You  see  I  retain 

my  usual  volatility.  The  Boswells,  you  know,  came 
over  from  Normandy  with  William  the  Conqueror; 
and  some  of  us  possess  the  spirit  of  our  ancestors, 
the  French.  I  do,  for  one.  A  pleasant  spirit  it  is. 
Vive  la  bagatelle !  is  the  maxim.  A  light  heart  may 
bid  defiance  to  fortune.  And  yet,  Erskine,  I  must 
tell  you  that  I  have  been  a  little  pensive  of  late, 
amorously  pensive,*  and  disposed  to  read  Shenstone's 
Pastoral  on  Absence,  the  tenderness  and  simplicity 
of  which  I  greatly  admire.  A  man  who  is  in  love  is 
like  a  man  who  has  got  the  toothache  :  he  feels  most 
acute  pain,  while  nobody  pities  him.  In  that  situation 
am  I  at  present,  but  well  do  I  know  that  I  will  not 
be  long  so.  So  much  for  inconstancy !  As  this  is 
my  first  epistle  to  you,  it  cannot  in  decency  be  a  long 
one.  Pray  write  to  me  soon.  Your  letters,  I  prophesy, 
will  entertain  me  not  a  little ;  and  will,  besides,  be 

*  By  a  comparison  with  the  letters  to  Mr.  Temple  of  this  date 
the  reader  might  discover,  if  desirous  of  so  doing,  who  was  the  fair 
one  now  charming  Boswell's  imagination. — ED. 


BOSWELL    AND    ERSKINE.  361 

extremely  serviceable  in  many  important  respects ; 
they  will  supply  me  with  oil  to  my  lamps,  grease  to 
my  wheels,  and  blacking  to  my  shoes.  They  will  fur- 
nish me  with  strings  to  my  fiddle,  lashes  to  my  whip, 
lining  to  my  breeches,  and  buttons  to  my  coat.  They 
will  make  charming  spurs,  excellent  knee-buckles, 
and  inimitable  watch-keys.  In  short,  while  they  last 
I  shall  neither  want  breakfast,  dinner,  nor  supper.  I 
shall  keep  a  couple  of  horses,  and  I  shall  sleep  upon 
a  bed  of  down ;  I  shall  be  in  France  this  year,  and 
in  Spain  the  next ;  with  many  other  particulars  too 
tedious  to  mention.  You  may  take  me  in  a  meta- 
phorical sense,  but  I  would  rather  choose  to  be  under- 
stood literally.  I  am 

Your  most  affectionate  friend, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


FROM  ERSKINE  TO  BOSWELL. 

Kelly,  September  \Uh,  1761, 
• 
Hail !  mighty  Boswell !  at  thy  awful  name 

The  fainting  Muse  relumes  her  sinking  flame. 
Behold  how  high  the  towering  blaze  aspires, 
While  Fancy's  waving  pinions  fan  my  fires  ! 
Swells  the  full  song  ?  it  swells  alone  from  thee, 
Some  spark  of  thy  bright  genius  kindles  me ! 
"  But  softly,  Sir,"  I  hear  you  cry, 
"  This  wild  bombast  is  rather  dry: 
I  hate  your  d — n'd  insipid  song, 
That  sullen  stalks  in  lines  so  long ; 
Come,  give  us  short  ones,  like  to  Butler, 
Or  like  our  friend  Auchinleck,  the  cutler." 


362  ADDITIONAL    LETTERS. 

A  Poet,  Sir,  whose  fame  is  to  support, 

Must  ne'er  write  verses  tripping,  pert,  and  short : 

Who  ever  saw  a  judge  himself  disgrace, 

By  trotting  to  the  bench  with  hasty  pace  ? 

I  swear,  dear  Sir,  you're  really  in  the  wrong ; 

To  make  a  line  that's  good,  I  say,  James,  make  it  long. 

You  see,  Sir,  I  have  quite  the  best  of  the  argument, 
and  indeed  I  was  determined  not  to  give  it  up  till  you 
acknowledged  yourself  vanquished ;  so  to  verse  I  go 
again,  tooth  and  nail.* 

How  well  you  talk  of  glory  and  the  Guards, 
Of  fighting  heroes,  and  their  great  rewards ! 
Our  eyes  behold  you  glow  with  martial  flame, 
Our  ears  attend  the  never-ceasing  theme. 
Fast  from  your  tongue  the  rousing  accents  flow, 
And  horror  darkens  on  your  sable  brow  ! 
We  hear  the  thunder  of  the  rolling  war, 
And  see  red  Victory  shouting  from  her  car ! 

You  kindly  took  me  up,  an  awkward  cub, 
And  introduced  me  to  the  Soaping  Club,f 
Where,  every  Tuesday-eve,  our  ears  are  blest 
With  genuine  humour  and  with  genuine  jest ; 
The  voice  of  mirth  ascends  the  list'ning  sky, 
While,  soap  his  own  beard  every  man,  you  cry. 
Say,  who  could  e'er  indulge  a  yawn  or  nap, 
When  Barclay  J  roars  forth  Snip,  and  Bainbridge  SnapPJ 


*  Boswell  was  desirous,  at  this  time,  of  entering  the  Guards,  with 
the  same  object  that  not  a  few  others  before  and  since  have  had,  viz. 
that  of  commanding  the  pleasures  and  adventures  of  the  Metropolis. 

—ED. 

t  The  Soaping  Club — a  club  in  Edinburgh,  the  motto  of  which 
was,  "  Every  man  soap  his  own  beard ;  or,  Every  man  indulge  his 
own  humour."  Their  game  was  that  facetious  one,  "  Snip,  Snap, 
Snorum."  (See  the  Introductory  Chapter  to  this  volume. — ED.) 

J  Barclay  and  Bainbridge,  two  members  of  this  Club. 


BOSWELL    AND    ERSKINE.  363 

Tell  me  how  I  your  favours  may  return ; 
With  thankfulness  and  gratitude  I  burn. 
I've  one  advice, — oh,  take  it,  I  implore ! 
Search  out  America's  untrodden  shore ; 
There  seek  some  vast  Savannah  rude  and  wild, 
Where  Europe's  sons  at  slaughter  never  smiled, 
With  fiend-like  arts,  insidious  to  betray 
The  sooty  natives  as  a  lawful  prey. 
At  you  th'  astonish' d  savages  shall  stare, 
And  hail  you  as  a  god,  and  call  you  fair  : 
Your  blooming  beauty  shall  unrivalTd  shine, 
And  Captain  Andrew's*  whiteness  yield  to  thine. 

In  reality  I'm  under  vast  obligations  to  you.  It 
was  you  who  first  made  me  thoroughly  sensible  (in- 
deed, I  very  readily  believed  it)  of  the  excellencies  of 
my  own  poetry  ;  and  about  that  time  I  made  two 
wonderful  discoveries,  to  wit,  that  you  was  a  sensible 
man,  and  that  I  was  a  good  poet, — discoveries  which, 
I  dare  say,  are  yet  doubted  by  some  incredulous 
people.  Boswell,  I  shall  not  praise  your  letter,  be- 
cause I  know  you  have  an  aversion  at  being  thought 
a  genius  or  a  wit.  The  reluctance  with  which  you 
always  repeat  your  Cub,f  and  the  gravity  of  counte- 
nance which  you  always  assume  upon  that  occasion, 
are  convincing  proofs  of  this  assertion.  You  hate 
flattery  too  ;  but  in  spite  of  your  teeth  I  must  tell 
you,  that  you  are  the  best  poet  and  the  most  humour- 
ous letter-writer  I  know ;  and  that  you  have  a  finer 
complexion,  and  dance  better,  than  any  man  of  my 

*  The  writers  of  these  Letters,  instead  of  being  rivals  in  wit, 
were  rivals  in  complexion. 

f  A  poem,  ode,  or  perhaps  '  piece '  of  Bosw ell's  composition. — 
ED. 


364  ADDITIONAL    LETTERS. 

acquaintance.  For  my  part,  I  actually  think  you  would 
make  an  excellent  Champion  at  the  approaching  Coro- 
nation. What  though  malevolent  critics  may  say  you 
are  too  little  ?  yet  you  are  a  Briareus  in  comparison  of 
Tydeus,  the  hero  of  Statius's  Thebais;  and  if  he  was 
not  a  warrior,  then  am  I,  Andrew  Erskine,  Lieutenant 
in  the  71st  Regiment,  blind  of  one  eye,  humpbacked, 
and  lame  in  both  legs.  We  are  all  tired  so  much  of 
the  Highlands,  that  we  had  not  been  there  three  weeks 

before  we  all  came  away  again.     Lady  B is  gone 

a-visiting,  and  the  rest  of  us  are  come  to  Kelly.  It 
was  most  unaccountable  in  me  to  leave  New  Tarbat, 
for  nowhere  will  you  meet  with  such  fine  ingredients 
for  poetical  description.  However  we  are  all  going 

back  again  when  Mr.  M comes  from  London ;  so 

some  time  in  October  you  may  expect  a  most  cordial 
invitation.  This  is  all  at  present  (according  to  the 
simple  but  eloquent  expression  of  the  vulgar)  from 

your  sincere  friend, 

ANDREW  ERSKINE. 


[To  the  above  letter  Boswell  replied  in  rhyme,  until 
he  reaches  the  last  paragraph,  when  he  condescends 
to  the  following  prose  passage,  which  is  characteristic 
enough  of  the  writer.] 

.  I  cannot  stop  yet.  Allow  me  a  few  more 
words.  I  live  here  in  a  remote  corner  of  an  old 
ruinous  house,*  where  my  ancestors  have  been  very 

*  Auchinleck. 


BOSWELL    AND    ERSKINE.  365 

jovial.  What  a  solemn  idea  rushes  on  my  mind  ! 
They  are  all  gone  :  I  must  follow.  Well,  and  what 
then  ?  Let  me  shift  about  to  another  subject.  The 
best  I  can  think  of  is  a  sound  sleep :  so  good  night ! 
and  believe  me  yours, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


New  Tarbat,  Nov.  23,  1761. 

Dear  Boswell, 

As  we  never  hear  that  Demosthenes  could  broil 
beefsteaks,  or  Cicero  poach  eggs,  we  may  safely  con- 
clude that  these  gentlemen  understood  nothing  of 
cookery.  In  like  manner,  it  may  be  concluded  that 
you,  James  Boswell,  and  I,  Andrew  Erskine,  cannot 
write  serious  epistles.  This,  as  Mr.  Tristram  says,  I 
deny ;  for  this  letter  of  mine  shall  contain  the  quint- 
essence of  solidity ;  it  shall  be  a  piece  of  boiled  beef 
and  cabbage,  a  roasted  goose,  and  a  boiled  leg  of  pork 
and  greens :  in  one  word,  it  shall  contain  advice,  sage 
and  mature  advice.  Oh,  James  Boswell !  take  care 
and  don't  break  your  neck,  pray  don't  fracture  your 
skull,  and  be  very  cautious  in  your  manner  of  tum- 
bling down  precipices ;  beware  of  falling  into  coalpits, 
and  don't  drown  yourself  in  every  pool  you  meet  with. 
Having  thus  warned  you  of  the  most  material  dangers 
which  your  youth  and  inexperience  will  be  ready  to 
lead  you  into,  I  now  proceed  to  others  less  momen- 
tary indeed,  but  very  necessary  to  be  strictly  observed. 
Go  not  near  the  Soaping  Club;  never  mention  Drury 


366  ADDITIONAL    LETTERS. 

Lane  playhouse;  be  attentive  to  those  pinchbeck 
buckles  which  fortune  has  so  graciously  given  you,  of 
which  I  am  afraid  you  're  hardly  fond  enough  •*  never 
wash  your  face,  but  above  all  forswear  poetry ;  from 
experience  I  can  assure  you,  and  this  letter  may  serve 
as  a  proof,  that  a  man  may  be  as  dull  in  prose  as  in 
verse ;  and  as  dullness  is  what  we  aim  at,  prose  is  the 
easiest  of  the  two.  Oh,  my  friend,  profit  by  these 
my  instructions !  think  that  you  see  me  studying  for 
your  advantage,  my  reverend  locks  overshadowing 
my  paper,  my  hands  trembling,  and  my  tongue  hang- 
ing out,  a  figure  of  esteem,  affection,  and  veneration. 

By  heavens,  Boswell !  I  love  you  more but  this  I 

think  may  be  more  conveniently  expressed  in  rhyme. 

"  More  than  a  herd  of  swine  a  kennel  muddy, 
More  than  a  brilliant  belle  polemic  study, 
More  than  fat  Falstaff  loved  a  cup  of  sack, 
More  than  a  guilty  criminal  the  rack, 
More  than  attorneys  love  by  cheats  to  thrive, 
And  more  than  witches  to  be  burnt  alive." 

I  begin  to  be  afraid  that  we  shall  not  see  you  here 
this  winter,  which  will  be  a  great  loss  to  you.  If  ever 
you  travel  into  foreign  parts,  as  Machiavel  used  to 
say,  everybody  abroad  will  require  a  description  of  New 

*  Boswell  had,  as  has  been  already  seen,  a  great  fondness  for 
dress,  which  he  has  thus  defended.  "  It  has  been  certainly  remarked 
that  the  most  gallant  men  have  been  fond  of  elegance  of  dress.  .  .  . 
and  a  very  brave  modern  General,  Lord  Marck  Kerr,  is  celebrated 
equally  for  his  determined  courage  and  his  fine  clothes"  (Hypo- 
chondriac Papers). — Boswell,  who  was  it  is  said  partial  to  witnessing 
executions,  might  have  noted  the  same  passion  in  certain  desperate 
scoundrels  at  Tyburn. — ED. 


BOSWELL    AND    ERSKINE.  367 

Tarbat*  from  you.  That  you  may  not  appear  totally 
ridiculous  and  absurd,  I  shall  send  you  some  little 
account  of  it.  Imagine  then  to  yourself  what  Thomson 
would  call  an  interminable  plain,  interspersed  in  a 
lovely  manner  with  beautiful  green  hills.  The  seasons 
here  are  only  shifted  by  Summer  and  Spring.  Winter, 
with  his  fur  cap  and  his  cat-skin  gloves,  was  never 
seen  in  this  charming  retreat.  The  castle  is  of  Gothic 
structure,  awful  and  lofty ;  there  are  fifty  bedchambers 
in  it,  with  halls,  saloons,  and  galleries  without  num- 
ber. Mr.  M 's  father,  who  was  a  man  of  infinite 

humour,  caused  a  magnificent  lake  to  be  made,  just 
before  the  entry  of  the  house.  His  diversion  was  to 
peep  out  of  his  window,  and  see  the  people  who  came 
to  visit  him  skipping  through  it,  for  there  was  no  other 
passage;  then  he  used  to  put  on  such  huge  fires  to 
dry  their  clothes  that  there  was  no  bearing  them.  He 
used  to  declare  that  he  never  thought  a  man  good 
company  till  he  was  half-drowned  and  half-burnt;  but 
if  in  any  part  of  his  life  he  had  narrowly  escaped 
hanging  (a  thing  not  uncommon  in  the  Highlands) 
he  would  perfectly  doat  upon  him,  and  whenever  the 
story  was  told  him  he  was  ready  to  choke  himself. 
But  to  return.  Everything  here  is  in  the  grand  and 
sublime  style.  But,  alas !  some  envious  magician, 
with  his  d — d  enchantments,  has  destroyed  all  these 
beauties.  By  his  potent  art  the  house  with  so  many 
bedchambers  in  it  cannot  conveniently  lodge  above  a 

*  New  Tarbat,  a  wild  Seat  in  the  Western  Highlands  of  Scot- 
land surrounded  with  mountains. 


368  ADDITIONAL    LETTERS. 

dozen  people.  The  room  which  I  am  writing  in  just 
now  is  in  reality  a  handsome  parlour  of  twenty  feet  by 
sixteen,  though  in  my  eyes  and  to  all  outward  appear- 
ance it  seems  a  garret  of  six  feet  by  four.  The  mag- 
nificent lake  is  a  dirty  puddle,  the  lovely  plain  a  rude, 
wild  country  covered  with  the  most  astonishing  high 
black  mountains;  the  inhabitants,  the  most  amiable 
race  under  the  sun,  appear  now  to  be  the  ugliest,  and 
look  as  if  they  were  overrun  with  the  itch  :  their  deli- 
cate limbs,  adorned  with  finest  silk  stockings,  are  now 
bare  and  very  dirty ;  but  to  describe  all  the  transfor- 
mations would  take  up  more  paper  than  Lady  B , 

from  whom  I  had  this,  would  choose  to  give  me.  My 
own  metamorphosis  is  indeed  so  extraordinary  that 
I  must  make  you  acquainted  with  it.  You  know  I 
am  really  very  thick  and  short,  prodigiously  talkative, 
and  wonderfully  impudent :  now  I  am  thin  and  tall, 
strangely  silent,  and  very  bashful.  If  these  things  con- 
tinue, who  is  safe  ?  Even  you,  Boswell,  may  feel  a 
change.  Your  fair  and  transparent  complexion  may 
turn  black  and  oily,  your  person  little  and  squat,  and 
who  knows  but  you  may  eternally  rave  about  the  King 
of  Great  Britain's  Guards, — a  species  of  madness  from 
which  good  Lord  deliver  us  ! 

I  have  often  wondered,  Boswell,  that  a  man  of  your 
taste  in  music  cannot  play  upon  the  Jew's-harp ;  there 
are  some  of  us  here  that  touch  it  very  melodiously,  I 
can  tell  you.  Corelli's  solo  of  '  Maggie  Lauder,'  and 
Pergolesi's  sonata  of  '  The  Carle  he  came  o'er  the 
Craft/  are  excellently  adapted  to  that  instrument.  Let 


BOSWELL    AND    ERSKINE.  369 

me  advise  you  to  learn  it.  The  first  cost  is  but  three- 
halfpence,  and  they  last  a  long  time.  I  have  com- 
posed the  following  Ode  upon  it,  which  exceeds  Pindar 
as  much  as  the  Jew's-harp  does  the  organ. 

ODE  UPON  A  JEW'S-HAKP. 

i. 

Sweet  instrument !  which,  fixed  in  yellow  teeth, 
So  clear,  so  sprightly,  and  so  gay  is  found, 

Whether  you  breathe  along  the  shores  of  Leith, 
Or  Lomond's  lofty  cliffs  thy  strains  resound  •> 

Struck  by  a  taper  finger's  gentle  tip, 

Oh,  softly  in  our  ears  thy  pleasing  murmurs  slip  ! 

ii. 

Where'er  thy  lively  music 's  found, 

All  are  jumping,  dancing  round ; 

Ev'n  trusty  William  lifts  a  leg, 

And  capers  like  sixteen  with  Peg : 

Both  old  and  young  confess  thy  powerful  sway, 

They  skip  like  madmen,  and  they  frisk  away. 

in. 
Eoused  by  the  magic  of  the  charming  air, 

The  yawning  dogs  forgo  their  heavy  slumbers ; 
The  ladies  listen  on  the  narrow  stair, 

And  Captain  Andrew  straight  forgets  his  numbers. 
Cat  and  mice  give  o'er  their  battling, 
Pewter  plates  on  shelves  are  rattling, 
But,  falling  down,  the  noise  my  lady  hears, 
Whose  scolding  drowns  the  trump  more  tuneful  than  the 
spheres ! 

Having  thus,  Boswell,  written  you  a  most  enter- 
taining letter,  with  which  you  are  highly  pleased,  to 
your  great  grief  I  give  over,  in  these  or  the  like  words, 
Your  affectionate  friend, 

ANDREW  ERSKINE. 
2  B 


870  ADDITIONAL    LETTERS. 

Edinburgh,  Dec.  2,  1761. 
Dear  Erskine, 

Notwithstanding  of  your  affecting  elegy  on  the  death 
of  two  pigs,  I  am  just  now  returned  from  eating  a 
most  excellent  one  with  the  most  magnificent  Donald- 
son. I  wish  you  would  explain  to  me  the  reason  of 
my  being  so  very  hard-hearted  as  to  discover  no  manner 
of  reluctance  at  that  innocent  animal's  being  brought 
to  table  well  roasted.  I  will  confess  to  you,  my  friend, 
that  I  fed  upon  it  with  so  small  alacrity,  neither  do  I 
feel  any  pangs  of  remorse  for  having  so  done.  The 
reason  perhaps  lies  so  deep  as  to  elude  our  keenest 
penetration :  at  the  same  time  give  me  leave  to  offer 
my  conjecture,  which  you  may  have  by  a  little  trans- 
mutation of  a  vulgar  adage,  in  such  manner  as  to  ob- 
tain at  one  and  the  same  time  (so  to  speak)  not  only 
strong  reason  for  my  alleged  inhumanity,  but  also  an 
apparent  pun  and  a  seeming  paradox,  all  which  you 
have  for  the  small  and  easy  charge  of  saying,  "  The 
belly  has  no  bowels." 

I  do  assure  you,  the  imperial  sovereign  of  Pope's 
Head,  Caledonian  Dodsley,  Scottish  Baskerville,  and 
Captain-General  of  Collective  Bards,  entertained  us 
most  sumptuously.  I  question  much  if  Captain  Er- 
skine himself  ever  fared  better;  although  I  was  the 
only  author  in  the  company,  which,  I  own,  surprised 
me  not  a  little.  Donaldson  is  undoubtedly  a  gentleman 
perfectly  skilled  in  the  art  of  insinuation.  His  dinners 
are  the  most  eloquent  addresses  imaginable.  Eor  my 
own  part,  I  am  never  a  sharer  in  one  of  his  copious 


BOSWELL    AND    EKSKINE.  371 

repasts,  but  I  feel  my  heart  warm  to  the  landlord,  and 
spontaneously  conceive  this  expressive  soliloquy, — 
Upon  my  word,  I  must  give  him  another  hundred 
lines. 

Now,  my  dear  Captain,  tell  me  how  is  it  with  you, 
after  reading  this  ?  With  what  feeling  are  you  most 
strongly  possessed  ?  But  as  this  depends  a  good  deal 
upon  the  time  of  the  day  at  which  you  receive  my 
epistle,  I  shall  make  no  farther  inquiry. 

Thus,  Sir,  have  I  unbosomed  the  big  exultation 
which  possessed  me  upon  occasion  of  what  some  of 
the  Fathers  would  call  splendidum  prandium, — Eng- 
lished thus,  *  a  splendid  dinner.' 

Are  you  not  all  this  time  very  much  astonished, 
nay  somewhat  piqued,  that  I  have  as  yet  made  no 
mention  of  your  last,  notwithstanding  of  the  wonder- 
ful enchantments  which  you  relate,  the  sagacious  ad- 
vices which  you  give,  and  the  '  Ode  to  a  Jew's-Harp,' 
which  you  add  ?  Forgive  me,  good  Captain ;  blame 
Donaldson.  Write  to  me  whenever  you  have  anything 
that  you  wish  to  say,  and  believe  me 

Yours, 
JAMES  BOSWELL. 

P.S. — Are  you  not  very  proud  of  your  Ode  to  Mid- 
night ?  Lord  K *  calls  it  the  best  poem  in  the 

English  language,  but  it  will  not  be  long  so ;  for,  in 
imitation  of  it,  I  have  written  an  '  Ode  to  Gluttony/ 
of  which  take  two  stanzas. 

*  Lord  Keffie. 

2  B  2 


372  ADDITIONAL    LETTERS. 


Hail,  Gluttony !  Oh  let  me  eat 

Immensely  at  thy  awful  board, 
On  which  to  serve  the  stomach  meet, 
What  art  and  nature  can  afford. 
I'll  furious  cram,  devoid  of  fear, 
Let  but  the  roast  and  boil'd  appear : 
Let  me  but  see  a  smoking  dish, 
I  care  not  whether  fowl  or  fish ; 
Then  rush,  ye  floods  of  ale,  adown  my  throat, 
And  in  my  belly  make  the  victuals  float ! 

n. 

And  yet  why  trust  a  greasy  cook, 

Or  give  to  meat  the  time  of  play, 
While  every  trout  gulps  down  a  hook, 

And  poor  dumb  beasts  harsh  butchers  slay  ? 
Why  seek  the  dull,  sauce-smelling  gloom 
Of  the  beef-haunted  dining-room ; 
Where  D — r  gives  to  every  guest, 
With  liberal  hand,  whate'er  is  best ; 
While  you  in  vain  th'  insurance  must  invoke 
To  give  security  you  shall  not  choke  ? 


Edinburgh,  December  8,  1761. 
Dear  Erskine, 

It  is  a  very  strange  thing  that  I,  James  Boswell, 
Esq.,  "  who  am  happily  possessed  of  a  facility  of  man- 
ners" (to  use  the  very  words  of  Mr.  Professor  Smith, 
which,  upon  honour,  were  addressed  to  me, — I  can 
produce  the  letter  in  which  they  are  to  be  found),  I 
say  it  is  a  very  strange  thing  that  I  should  ever  be  at 
a  loss  how  to  express  myself;  and  yet,  at  this  moment 
of  my  existence,  that  is  really  the  case.  May  Lady 


BOSWELL    AND    ERSKINE.  373 

B say  unto  me,  "Boswell,  I  detest  thee!"  if  I 

am  not  in  downright  earnest. 

Mankind  are  such  a  perverse  race  of  beings,  that 
they  never  fail  to  lay  hold  of  every  circumstance  tend- 
ing to  their  own  praise,  while  they  let  slip  every  cir- 
cumstance tending  to  their  censure.  To  illustrate  this 
by  a  recent  example :  you  see  I  accurately  remember 
Mr.  Smith's  beautiful — I  shall  even  grant  you,  just — 
compliment,  but  have  quite  forgot  his  severe  criticism 
on  a  sentence  so  clumsily  formed  as  to  require  an  / 
say  to  keep  it  together,  which  I  myself  candidly  think 
much  resembles  a  pair  of  ill-mended  breeches. 

Having  a  mind,  Erskine,  to  open  a  sluice  of  hap- 
piness upon  you,  I  must  inform  you  that  I  have  lately 
got  you  an  immensity  of  applause  from  men  of  the 
greatest  taste.  You  know  I  read  rather  better  than 
any  man  in  Britain,  so  that  your  Works  had  a  very 
uncommon  advantage.  I  was  pleased  at  the  praise 
which  you  received ;  I  was  vain  of  having  such  a  cor- 
respondent. I  thought  I  did  not  envy  you  a  bit ;  and 
yet,  I  don't  know,  I  felt  somehow  as  if  I  could  like  to 
thrash  you  pretty  heartily ;  however,  I  have  one  com- 
fort in  thinking  that  all  this  praise  would  not  have 
availed  you  a  single  curl  of  Sir  Cloudesly  Shovel's 
periwig,  had  not  I  generously  reported  it  to  you ;  so 
that,  in  reality,  you  are  obliged  to  me  for  it. 

The  second  volume  of  the  Poems*  will  not  be  pub- 
lished till  January;  Captain  Erskine  will  make  a  very 
good  figure, — Boswell  a  decent  one. 

*  These  volumes  of  poems  by  Scotch  gentlemen  have  been  men- 
tioned in  the  Introductory  Chapter. — ED. 


374  ADDITIONAL    LETTERS. 

Lady  B entreats  me  to  come  and  pass  the 

Christmas  holidays  with  her.  Guess,  O  guess  !  what 
transport  I  felt  at  reading  that ;  I  did  not  know  how 
to  contain  my  elevation  of  spirits.  I  thought  myself 
one  of  the  greatest  geniuses  in  Europe ;  I  thought  I 
could  write  all  sorts  of  books,  and  work  at  all  handi- 
craft trades ;  I  imagined  that  I  had  fourscore  millions 
of  money  out  at  interest,  and  that  I  should  actually  be 
chosen  Pope  at  the  next  election.  I  obtest  you,  my 
friend,  in  the  warmest  spirit  of  love,  to  return  her 
Ladyship  my  most  sincere  thanks,  and  tell  her,  that 
when  the  planets  permit  us  to  meet,  she  herself  shall 
judge  how  richly  I  can  express  my  gratitude. 

Although  I  am  a  good  deal  of  a  Don  Quixote,  yet 
I  feel  myself  averse  to  so  long  a  journey.  Believe 
me,  I  am  as  sweetly  indolent  as  any  genius  in  all  his 
Majesty's  dominions,  so  that,  for  my  own  incitement, 
I  must  propose  the  following  scheme.  You,  Captain 
Andrew,  shall,  upon  Monday  the  twenty-eighth  day  of 
the  present  month,  set  out  from  New  Tarbat  in  Mr. 
M 's  chaise,  and  meet  me  at  Glasgow  that  even- 
ing. Next  day  shall  we  both,  in  friendly  guise,  get 
into  the  said  chaise,  and  drive  with  velocity  to  your 
present  habitation,  where  I  shall  remain  till  the  Mon- 
day se'nnight ;  on  which  day  I  shall  be  in  like  manner 
accompanied  back  to  Glasgow,  from  thence  to  make 
my  way,  as  well  as  I  can,  to  the  Scottish  Metropolis. 
I  have  told  the  story  of  my  scheme  rather  awkwardly, 
but  it  will  have  its  advantages.  I  shall  have  a  couple 
of  days  more  of  your  classical  company,  and  some- 


BOSWELL    AND    ERSK1NE.  375 

what  less  to  pay,  which,  to  a  poet,  is  no  slender  con- 
sideration. 

I  shall  chaise  it  the  whole  way, — thanks  to  the  man 
who  first  invented  that  comfortable  method  of  jour- 
neying !  had  it  not  been  for  that,  I  dare  say  both  you 
and  I  would  have  circumscribed  our  travels  within  a 
very  few  miles.  For  my  own  part,  I  think  to  dress 
myself  in  a  great -coat  and  boots,  and  get  astride  a 
horse's  back  and  be  jolted  through  the  mire,  perhaps 
in  wind  and  rain,  is  a  punishment  too  severe  for  all 
the  offences  which  I  can  charge  myself  with.  Indeed 
I  have  a  mortal  antipathy  to  riding,  and  that  was  the 
true  reason  for  my  refusing  a  regiment  of  dragoons 
which  the  King  of  Prussia  offered  me  at  the  beginning 
of  this  war.  I  know  indeed  the  Mareschal  Duke  de 
Belleisle,  in  his  '  Political  Testament,'  has  endeavoured 
to  persuade  the  world  that  it  was  owing  to  my  having 
a  private  amour  with  a  lady  of  distinction  in  the  Aus- 
trian Court;  but  that  Minister  was  too  deeply  immersed 
in  State  intrigues  to  t  now  much  about  those  of  a  more 
tender  nature.  The  tumultuous  hurry  of  business  and 
ambition  left  no  room  in  his  mind  for  the  delicious 
delicacy  of  sentiment  and  passion,  so  very  essential  to 
a  man  of  gallantry. 

I  think,  Erskine,  in  this  scheme  of  mine  I  am  play- 
ing a  very  sure  game,  for  you  must  either  indulge  me 
in  every  article  which  I  have  mentioned,  or  entertain 
me  with  a  plentiful  dish  of  well-dressed  apologies.  I 
beg  it  of  you,  however,  don't  put  yourself  to  any  in- 
convenience ;  indeed  I  might  have  saved  myself  the 


376  ADDITIONAL    LETTERS. 

trouble  of  making  this  request,  for  you  are  that  kind 
of  man  that  I  believe  you  would  not  put  yourself  to 
an  inconvenience  to  be  made  a  Lieutenant-General. 
Pray,  shall  we  not  see  you  here  this  winter  at  all? 
You  ought  to  come  and  eat  the  fruit  of  your  labours. 
I  remain, 

Your  most  affectionate  friend, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 

I  shall  rouse  Donaldson,  as  you  desire ;  I  shall  rouse 
him  like  a  peal  of  thunder. 

I  wonder  what  you  will  all  think  of  this  proposal  of 
mine  for  delivering  myself  in  folio.  Ten  days  make  a 
period,  as  I  used  to  say  :  they  bear  some  proportion  to 
the  whole  of  life.  Write  instantly. 

SEQUEL  OF  THE  ODE  TO  GLUTTONY. 

in. 
Ev'n  now,  upon  his  elbow-chair, 

A  glutton  surfeit-struck  reclines  ; 
See  him  look  round  with  frightful  stare, 
And  beg  for  drink  with  eager  signs. 
His  gullet  stuif  the  unchew'd  bits, 
He  groans  and  nods  his  head  by  fits ; 
His  high-swoll'n  cheeks,  that  were  so  red, 
With  egg-shell  whiteness  are  o'erspread  ; 
Ah  !  quickly  thump  his  back,  lest,  for  a  boast, 
Death  from  his  liver  rive  his  bouncing  ghost. 

IV. 

Ev'n  now  on  venison  much  intent, 

The  great  John  Bull,  pleas'd  with  his  fate, 

Gorges  until  his  sides  are  rent, 
And  glows  voluptuous  o'er  his  plate. 


BOSWELL    AND    ERSKINE.  377 

He,  while  he  eyes  the  godlike  haunch, 

Rubs  his  rotundity  of  paunch ; 

Which,  when  replete  in  every  chink, 

His  Worship  makes  sublimely  think : 
Or,  an  inveterate  enemy  to  chat, 
Delighted  views  a  splendid  store  of  fat ! 

v. 

Bread  nils  the  mouths  of  hungry  clowns  ; 
The  blacksmith's  clumsy  grinders  go ; 
The  kitchens  sweat  thro'  all  the  towns; 
The  cock  now  fry'd  no  more  shall  crow. 
The  baker  tarts  and  cheesecakes  brings  ; 
The  rusty  jack,  ear-grating,  sings ; 
Each  footman,  with  an  angry  voice, 
Damns  the  confounded  creaking  noise. 
The  ham  suspended,  when  the  strings  are  brdke, 
Assaults  Bob's  powder'd  pate  with  dreadful  stroke. 

VI. 

And  now,  perhaps,  the  buxom  wife 

Of  Vintner  Thorn*  consults  her  spouse, 
How  those  who  play  the  keenest  knife, 
She  best  may  feast  within  her  house. 
She  sees  before  her  mind's  clear  glass, 
All  sorts  of  fresh  provisions  pass ; 
She  makes  pots,  pans,  and  spits  be  scour'd, 
For  dressing  what  shall  be  devour'd. 
Haste  !  let  me  thither  hie  with  purpose  good, 
To  swallow  monstrous  quantities  of  food ! 


New  Tarbat,  December  13,  1761. 
Dear  Boswell, 

An  Ode  to  Tragedy,  by  a  gentleman  of  Scotland, 
and  dedicated  to  you  !  f  had  there  been  only  one  spark 

*  Thorn,  in  whose  house  the  Soaping  Club  was  always  held, 
f  This  letter  was   occasioned  by  seeing  an  '  Ode  to  Tragedy,' 


378  ADDITIONAL    LETTERS. 

of  curiosity  in  my  whole  composition,  this  would  have 
raised  it  to  a  flame  equal  to  the  general  conflagration. 
May  G — d  d — n  me,  as  Lord  Peter  says,  if  the  edge 
of  my  appetite  to  know  what  it  can  be  about,  is  not  as 
keen  as  the  best  razor  ever  used  by  a  member  of  the 
Soaping  Club.  Go  to  Donaldson,  demand  from  him 
two  of  my  franks,*  and  send  it  me  even  before  the  first 
post.  Write  me,  O  write  me,  what  sort  of  man  this 
author  is  !  where  he  was  born,  how  he  was  brought 
up,  and  with  what  sort  of  diet  he  has  been  principally 

fed.     Tell  me  his  genealogy,  like  Mr.  M ;  how 

many  miles  he  has  travelled  in  postchaises,  like  Colonel 

R ;  tell  me  what  he  eats,  like  a  cook ;  what  he 

drinks,  like  a  wine-merchant ;  what  shoes  he  wears, 
like  a  shoemaker  ;  in  what  manner  his  mother  was  de- 
livered of  him,  like  a  man-midwife  ;  and  how  his  room 
is  furnished,  like  an  upholsterer;  but  if  you  happen 
to  find  it  difficult  to  utter  all  this  in  terms  befitting 

Mr.  M ,  Colonel  R ,  a  cook,  a  wine-merchant, 

a  shoemaker,  a  man-midwife,  and  an  upholsterer,  oh ! 
tell  it  me  all  in  your  manner,  and  in  your  own  incom- 
parable style. 

Your  scheme,  Boswell,  has  met  with — but  the 
thoughts  of  this  Ode-writing  gentleman  of  Scotland 
again  comes  across  me !  I  must  now  ask,  like  the 

written  by  a  gentleman  of  Scotland,  and  dedicated  to  James  Bos- 
well,  Esq.,  advertised  in  the  Edinburgh  newspapers  :  it  afterwards 
appeared  that  the  Ode  was  written  by  Mr.  Boswell  himself. 

*  It  may  perhaps  be  permitted  to  mention  that  this  '  Ode  to 
Tragedy'  was  certainly  neither  worth  two  franks  nor  one  perusal. 
—ED. 


BOSWELL    AND    ERSKINE.  379 

'  Spectator/  is  he  fat  or  lean,  tall  or  short ;  does  he 
use  spectacles?  what  is  the  length  of  his  walking- 
stick  ?  has  he  a  landed  estate  ?  has  he  a  good  coal- 
work  ?  Lord  !  Lord !  what  a  melancholy  thing  it  is 
to  live  twenty  miles  from  a  post-town  !  why  am  I  not 
in  Edinburgh  ?  why  am  I  not  chained  to  Donaldson's 
shop? 

I  received  both  your  letters  yesterday,  for  we  send 
to  the  post-house  but  once  a  week.  I  need  not  tell 
you  how  I  liked  them :  were  I  to  acquaint  you  with 
that,  you  would  consecrate  the  pen  with  which  they 
were  written,  and  deify  the  inkhorn.  I  think  the 
outside  of  one  of  them  was  adorned  with  the  greatest 
quantity  of  good  sealing-wax  I  ever  saw,  and  rny  bro- 
ther A and  Lady  A ,  both  of  whom  have  a 

notable  comprehension  of  these  sort  of  things,  agree 
with  me  in  this  my  opinion. 

Your  Ode  to  Gluttony  is  altogether  excellent ;  the 
descriptions  are  so  livety,  that,  mistaking  the  paper 
on  which  they  were  written  for  a  piece  of  bread  and 
butter  spread  with  marmalade,  I  fairly  swallowed  the 
whole  composition,  and  I  find  my  stomach  increased 
threefold  since  that  time.  I  declare  it  to  be  the  most 
abominable  whet  in  the  world,  superior  to  a  solan 
goose,  or  white  wine  and  bitters :  it  ought  to  be 
hung  up  in  every  cook's-shop  in  the  three  kingdoms, 
engraved  on  pillars  in  all  market-places,  and  pasted  in 
all  rooms  in  all  taverns. 

You  seem  to  doubt  in  your  first  letter,  if  ever 
Captain  Erskine  was  better  entertained  by  the  great 


380  ADDITIONAL    LETTERS. 

Donaldson  than  you  was  lately.  Banish  that  opinion  ; 
tell  it  not  in  Gath,  nor  publish  it  in  Ascalon  ;  repeat  it 
not  in  John's  Coffee-house,  neither  whisper  it  in  the 
Abbey  of  Holyrood  House.  No,  I  shall  never  forget  the 
fowls  and  oyster-sauce  which  bedecked  the  board :  fat 
were  the  fowls,  and  the  oysters  of  the  true  Pandour  or 
Croat  kind.  Then  the  apple-pie  with  raisins,  and  the 
mutton  with  calliflower,  can  never  be  erased  from  my 
remembrance.  I  may  forget  my  native  country,  my 
dear  brothers  and  sisters,  my  poetry,  my  art  of  mak- 
ing love,  and  even  you,  O  Boswell !  but  these  things 
I  can  never  forget ;  the  impression  is  too  deep,  too 
well  imprinted,  ever  to  be  effaced.  I  may  turn  Turk 
or  Hottentot,  I  may  be  hanged  for  stealing  a  bag  to 
adorn  my  hair,  I  may  ravish  all  sorts  of  virgins  young 
and  old,  I  may  court  the  fattest  Wapping  landlady, 
— but  these  things  I  can  never  forget.  I  may  be  sick 
and  in  prison,  I  may  be  deaf,  dumb,  and  may  lose 
my  memory, — but  these  things  I  can  never  forget ! 

And  now,  Boswell,  I  am  to  acquaint  you  that  your 
proposal  is  received  with  the  utmost  joy  and  festivity  ; 
and  the  scheme,  if  I  live  till  tomorrow  fortnight,  will 
be  put  in  execution.  The  New  Tarbat  chaise  will  ar- 
rive at  Glasgow  on  Monday  evening  the  28th  of  De- 
cember, drove  by  William.  Captain  Andrew's  slim 
personage  will  slip  out,  he  will  inquire  for  James  Bos- 
well, Esq. ;  he  will  be  shown  into  the  room  where  he 
is  sitting  before  a  large  fire,  the  evening  being  cold ; 
raptures  and  poetry  will  ensue,  and  every  man  will 
'  Soap  his  own  Beard ;'  every  other  article  of  the  pro- 


BOSWELL    AND    ERSKINE.  381 

posals  will  be  executed  as  faithfully  as  this.  But  to 
speak  very  seriously,  you  must  be  true  to  your  ap- 
pointment, and  come  with  the  utmost  regularity  upon 
the  Monday.  Think  of  my  emotions  at  Grime's  if 
you  should  not  come ;  view  my  melancholy  posture  ! 
Hark !  I  rave  like  Lady  Wishfort, — no  Boswell  yet ! 
Boswell  's  a  lost  thing !  I  must  receive  a  letter  from 
you  before  I  set  out,  telling  me  whether  you  keep 
true  to  your  resolution,  and  pray  send  me  the  Ode  to 
Tragedy.  I  beg  you  will  bring  me  out  in  your  pocket 
my  Critical  Review,  which  you  may  desire  Donaldson 
to  give  you ;  but,  above  all,  employ  Donaldson  to  get 
me  a  copy  of  '  Fingal,'  which,  tell  him,  I  '11  pay  him 
for :  I  long  to  see  it. 

There  are  some  things  lately  published  in  London 
which  I  should  be  glad  to  have,  particularly  a  '  Spousal 
Hymn  on  the  Marriage  of  the  King  and  Queen/  and 
an  '  Elegy  on  viewing  a  Ruined  Pile  of  Buildings  •' 
see  what  you  can  do  for  me.  I  know  you  will  not 
take  it  ill  to  be  busied  a  little  for  that  greatest  of  all 
poets  Captain  Andrew. 

The  sluice  of  happiness  you  have  let  in  upon  me 
has  quite  overflowed  the  shallows  of  my  understand- 
ing. At  this  moment  I  am  determined  to  write  more 
and  print  more  than  any  man  in  the  kingdom ;  except 
the  great  Dr.  Hill,*  who  writes  a  folio  every  month,  a 

*  The  Dr.  Hill  here  referred  to  was  probably  the  person  who 
called  himself  Sir  John  Hill.  He  was  a  very  voluminous  author, 
chiefly  on  botanical  subjects :  his  'Vegetable  System'  is  in  twenty- 
six  volumes  folio.  He  also  indulged  in  editing  a  scandalous  news- 


382  ADDITIONAL    LETTERS. 

quarto  every  fortnight,  an  octavo  every  week,  and  a 
duodecimo  every  day.  Hogarth  has  humorously  re- 
presented a  brawny  porter  almost  sinking  to  the  ground 
under  a  huge  load  of  his  Works.  I  am  too  lazy  just 
now  to  copy  out  an  Ode  to  Indolence,  which  I  have 
lately  written.  Besides,  it 's  fitting  I  reserve  some- 
thing for  you  to  peruse  when  we  meet,  for  upon 
these  occasions  an  exchange  of  poems  ought  to  be 
as  regular  as  an  exchange  of  prisoners  between  two 
nations  at  war.  Believe  me,  dear  Boswell,  to  be  yours 
sincerely, 

ANDREW  ERSKINE. 

P.S. — Pray  write  me  before  I  set  out  for  Glasgow. 
The  '  Ode  to  Tragedy,'  by  a  gentleman  of  Scotland, 
good  now  !  wonderful ! 


Edinburgh,  December  \lth,  1761. 
Dear  Erskine, 

Had  you  but  hinted  a  method  of  conveyance  sooner 
than  by  the  first  post,  sooner  should  the  '  Ode  to  Tra- 
gedy' have  saluted  your  longing  eyes. 

At  length  it  comes !  it  comes !  Hark  with  what 
lofty  music  do  the  spheres  proclaim  its  triumphal  entry 
into  the  majestic  edifice  at  Tarbat !  Behold  the  family 
gathered  around  it  in  a  sort  of  quadrangular  figure ! 

paper  called  the  '  Inspector,'  and  was  a  rare  example  of  science  and 
scoundrelism,  of  industry  and  quackery,  being  successfully  combined 
in  one  person. — ED. 


BOSWELL    AND    ERSKINE.  383 

Heavens  !  what  a  picture  of  curiosity !  what  a  group 
of  eager  expectants  !  They  show  their  teeth,  they  rub 
their  hands,  they  kick  the  floor  !  But  who  is  this,  the 
fire  of  whose  looks  flames  infinitely  beyond  the  rest  ? 
It  is  Captain  Andrew  !  it  is !  it  is  !  Ye  gods,  he  seizes ! 
he  opens !  he  reads !  Let  us  leave  him :  I  can  no 
more  :  it  would  stretch  the  strings  too  far  to  proceed. 
You  must  know  I  purposely  neglected  to  send  the  Ode 
myself,  and  likewise  prevented  Donaldson  from  send- 
ing it  immediately  when  it  was  published,  in  order  to 
give  full  play  to  your  impatience.  I  considered  what 
amazing  effects  it  must  produce  upon  Captain  Erskine 
to  find  in  one  advertisement  an  '  Ode  to  Tragedy/  a 
Gentleman  ot  Scotland,  Alexander  Donaldson,  and 
James  Bos  well,  Esq.  How  far  my  conjecture  was  just 
your  last  letter  does  most  amply  testify. 

The  author  of  the  '  Ode  to  Tragedy'  is  a  most  ex- 
cellent man :  he  is  of  an  ancient  family  in  the  west  of 
Scotland,  upon  which  he  values  himself  not  a  little. 
At  his  nativity  there  appeared  omens  of  his  future 
greatness ;  his  parts  are  bright,  and  his  education  has 
been  good ;  he  has  travelled  in  postchaises  miles  with- 
out number ;  he  is  fond  of  seeing  much  of  the  world ; 
he  eats  of  every  good  dish,  especially  applepie;  he 
drinks  old  hock;  he  has  a  very  fine  temper;  he  is 
somewhat  of  a  humourist,  and  a  little  tinctured  with 
pride ;  he  has  a  good,  manly  countenance,  and  he 
owns  himself  to  be  amorous ;  he  has  infinite  vivacity, 
yet  is  observed  at  times  to  have  a  melancholy  cast; 
he  is  rather  fat  than  lean,  rather  short  than  tall,  rather 


384  ADDITIONAL    LETTERS. 

young  than  old;  his  shoes  are  neatly  made,  and  he 
never  wears  spectacles.  The  length  of  his  walking- 
stick  is  not  as  yet  ascertained,  but  we  hope  soon  to 
favour  the  republic  of  letters  with  a  solution  of  this 
difficulty,  as  several  able  mathematicians  are  employed 
in  its  investigation,  and  for  that  purpose  have  posted 
themselves  at  different  given  points  in  the  Canongate ; 
so  that  when  the  gentleman  saunters  down  to  the  Ab- 
bey of  Holyrood  House,  in  order  to  think  of  ancient 
days,  on  King  James  the  Fifth  and  on  Queen  Mary, 
they  may  compute  its  altitude  above  the  street  accord- 
ing to  the  rules  of  geometry. 

I  hope  you  have  received  a  line  from  me,  fixing 
Thursday  the  24th  as  the  day  of  our  meeting.  I 
exult  in  the  prospect  of  felicity  that  is  before  us. 
'  Fingal'  and  your  '  Critical  Review'  shall  accompany 
me.  I  will  not  anticipate  your  pleasure  in  reading 
the  Highland  Bard ;  only  take  my  word  for  it,  he  will 
make  you  feel  that  you  have  a  soul.  I  shall  remember 
your  other  commissions.  Continue  to  trust  me  till  you 
find  me  negligent. 

I  beg  it  of  you,  for  once  be  a  Frenchman,  and  in  the 
character  of  Boswell  kneel,  supplicate,  worship  Lady 
B-  -. 

I  remain, 

Your  affectionate  friend, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


BOSWELL    AND    ERSKTNE.  385 

New  Tarbat,  December  16,  1761. 
Dear  Boswell, 

Swift  as  pen  can  scratch,  or  ink  can  flow,  as  floods 
can  rush,  or  winds  can  blow, — which,  you'll  observe,  is 
a  very  pretty  rhyme, — I  sit  down  in  a  chair  which  has 
really  a  very  bad  bottom,  being  made  of  wood,  arid 
answer  your  epistle,  which  I  received  this  moment ; 
it  is  dated  on  Saturday,  the  14th,  which  was  really 
the  12th,  according  to  the  computation  of  the  best 
chronologists.  This  is  a  blunder  which  Sir  Isaac  New- 
ton would  never  have  excused ;  but  I,  a  man  no  less 
great,  forgive  it  from  my  soul ;  and  I  here  declare  that 
I  will  never  upbraid  you  with  it  in  any  company 
or  conversation,  even  though  that  conversation  should 
turn  upon  the  quickest  and  most  pleasant  method  of 
swallowing  oysters,  when  you  know  I  might  very  na- 
turally introduce  it. 

I  confess  it's  singularly  silly  in  me  to  turn  the  page 
in  this  manner,  and  that  I  should  have  followed  your 
example,  or  rather  ensample,  as  some  great  judges  of 
style  usually  write  it.  I  see  by  the  newspapers  that 
'Fin gal*  is  to  be  published  at  Edinburgh  in  a  few 
days  ;  pray  bring  it  with  you. 

I  will  undoubtedly  meet  you  at  Glasgow  on  the 
twenty-fourth  of  the  month,  being  exactly  that  day 
which  precedes  Christmas,  as  was  ingeniously  observed 
by  Mr.  Sheridan  in  his  fourth  Lecture :  and  I  hear  he 
is  going  to  publish  a  whole  volume  of  discoveries,  all 
as  notable  as  this,  which  I  imagine  will  exceed  his 
Lectures  greatly. 

•I  c 


386  ADDITIONAL    LETTERS. 

Pray  now  be  faithful  to  this  appointment,  and  so  I 
commit  this  letter  to  the  guidance  of  Providence, 
hoping  that  it  will  not  miscarry  or  fail  of  being  duly 
delivered.  Believe  me  yours  sincerely, 

ANDREW  ERSKINE. 


New  Tarbat,  January  IQtk,  1762. 

Dear  Boswell, 

Cicero,  in  his  book  of  *  Office-houses/  defines  ingra- 
titude to  be  **********,  which  both  Dean  Swift  and 

Tristram  Shandy  take  as  afmpst  exact  definition. 

.          I  -v\ 
The  storms  of  night  de!s^e4ded,  the  winds  rolled 

along  the  clouds  with  all  their  ghosts,  around  the  rock 
the  dark  waves  burst  and  shov^a  their  flaming  bosoms, 
loud  rushed  the  blast  throtigih  the  leafless  oaks,  and 
the  voice  of  the  Spirit  of  tlfbj^lountams  was  heard 
in  our  halls ;  it  was  Satunlay^hen  lo  !  at  once  the 
postman  came;  mighty  was  his  striding  in  the  kitchen, 
and  strong  was  his  voice  for  aleJI^n  short,  I  have  as 
yet  received  no  letter  from  yojjand  great  is  my  won- 
der and  astonishment ;  even  DoiMdson  has  not  sent 
me  my  '  Critical  Review ;'  wouj*^5  God  he  had  one 
rap  from  Fingal's  sword  of  Lu|p  ' 

I  feel  myself  at  this  present;  jRoment  capable  of 
writing  a  letter  which  would  delight  you,  but  I  am 
determined  not  to  do  it,  and  this  is  the  severe  punish- 
ment of  your  neglect :  I  withhold  the  treasures  of  my 
wit  and  humour  from  you, — a  perfect  Golconda  mine 
of  diamonds. 


BOSWELL    AND    ERSKINE.  387 

I  have  been  enjoying,  since  you  left  me,  the  most 
exquisite  entertainment,  in  the  perusal'  of  the  noble 
works  of  Ossian,  the  greatest  poet,  in  my  opinion,  that 
ever  composed,  and  who  exceeds  Homer,  Virgil,  and 
Milton.  He  transports  us  by  the  grandeur  of  his  sub- 
lime, or  by  some  sudden  start  of  tenderness  he  melts 
us  into  distress.  Who  can  read  without  the  warmest 
emotions  the  pathetic  complaints  of  the  venerable  old 
Bard,  when  he  laments  his  blindness  and  the  death 
of  his  friends  ?  But  how  are  we  animated  when  the 
memory  of  former  years  comes  rushing  on  his  mind, 
and  the  light  of  the  song  rises  in  his  soul !  It  is  quite 
impossible  to  express  my  admiration  of  his  poems :  at 
particular  passages  I  felt  my  whole  frame  trembling 
with  ecstasy ;  but  if  I  was  to  describe  all  my  thoughts 
you  would  think  me  absolutely  mad.  The  beautiful 
wildness  of  his  fancy  isw  inexpressibly  agreeable  to  the 
imagination :  for  instance,  the  mournful  sound  from 
the  untouched  harp  when  a  hero  is  going  to  fall,  or 
the  awful  appearances  of  his  ghosts  and  spirits. 

Notwithstanding  all  these  beauties,  we  shall  still 
continue  pedants,  and  Homer  and  Virgil  will  be  read 
and  quoted  when  O«£ian  shall  be  totally  forgotten ; 
this,  without  the  gift  oirprophecy,  I  can  foresee.  Much 
could  I  enlarge  upon  this  subject,  but  this  must  not 
be  a  long  letter.  Believe  me, 

Yours  sincerely, 

ANDREW  ERSKINE. 


2  c  2 


388  ADDITIONAL    LETTERS. 

Edinburgh,  January  11,  1762. 
Dear  Erskine, 

Instead  of  endeavouring  to  excuse  myself  for  neg- 
lecting so  long  to  write,  I  shall  present  you  with  some 
original  conjectures  of  my  own,  upon  the  way  and 
manner  in  which  you  have  been  affected  on  this  pre- 
sent occasion.  And  here  I  must  premise  that,  in  so 
doing,  I  shall  not  follow  the  formal  and  orderly  me- 
thod of  Bishop  Latimer,  in  his  sermons  before  King 
Edward  VI.,  but,  on  the  contrary,  shall  adopt  the  easy 
desultory  style  of  one  whom  at  present  I  shall  not 
venture  to  name,  but  leave  that  to  some  future  inge- 
nious commentator  on  the  epistolary  correspondence  of 
the  Hon.  Andrew  Erskine  and  James  Boswell,  Esq. 

Either  you  have  been  sunk  into  a  frigid  state  of 
listless  indifference,  and  gone  whistling  up  and  down 
the  room  upon  a  fife,  and  murmuring  at  intervals 
while  you  took  breath,  "  Let  him  do  as  he  likes;  let  him 
please  himself;  yes,  yes,  let  him  soap  his  own  beard  I" 
Or  you  have  felt  the  most  delicate  pangs  of  afflicted 
sensibility,  and  uttered  tender  tales  of  woe  in  softly- 
plaintive  numbers. 

p 

"  The  savage  bard  returns  no  humorous  line ; 
No  tragic  ode  now  soothes  my  soul  to  rest ; 

In  vain  I  fly  to  Lady  B 's  wine, 

Nor  can  a  hearty  supper  make  me  blest." 

Or  you  have  burned,  raged,  and  fried,  like  the  thrice 
amorous  swain  in  the  renowned  English  translation 
of  '  Voi  Amanti ;'  and  perhaps  thundered  forth  all  the 


BOSWELL    AND    ERSKINE.  389 

anathemas  which  Tristram  Shandy  has  borrowed  from 
the  Church  of  Rome,  and  transferred  to  poor  Obadiah. 
By  this  time  the  storm  is  blown  over.  This  merry 
letter  has  made  you  grin  and  show  every  expression 
of  laughter :  you  are  now  in  very  good  humour,  and 
are  in  all  human  probability  saying  to  yourself,  "  My 
good  friend  Boswell  is  a  most  excellent  correspondent. 
It  is  true  he  is  indolent  and  dissipated, — as  the  cele- 
brated Parson  Brown  of  Carlisle  says, — and  he  fre- 
quently is  a  little  negligent ;  but  when  he  does  write, 
ye  gods,  how  he  does  write !  In  short,  to  sing  him 
his  own  inimitable  song,  '  There  is  no  better  fellow 
alive.'  " 

I  remain,  yours  sincerely, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


New  Tarbat,  June  20,  1762. 
Dear  Boswell, 

It  a  kind  of  maxim,  or  rule  in  life,  never  to  begin  a 
thing  without  having  an  eye  towards  the  conclusion. 
Certainly  this  rule  was  never  better  observed  than  in 
your  last  letter,  in  which  indeed  I  am  apt  to  think 
you  kept  the  conclusion  rather  too  much  in  view  ;  or 
perhaps  you  forgot  the  beginning  altogether,  which  is 
not  unfrequently  the  case  with  you  ;  but  you  do  those 
things  with  so  little  compunction,  that  I  shall  very 
soon  cease  to  forgive  you,  and  answer  you  in  the  same 
manner.  It  is  to  be  feared  that  the  dissolution  of 
our  correspondence  will  immediately  follow,  or  dwindle 


390  ADDITIONAL    LETTERS. 

into  half  a  page  of  your  text-hand,  which  I  always 
looked  upon  as  a  detestable  invention.  If  all  this  that 
I  dread  happens,  we  shall  then  cease  to  be  reckoned 
men  of  letters. 

I  find  it  recorded  in  the  history  of  the  Eastern 
Roman  Empire,  that  it  was  the  custom,  whenever  the 
inhabitants  of  Constantinople  mutinied  for  want  of 
bread,  to  whip  all  the  bakers  through  the  city,  which 
always  appeased  the  populace.  In  like  manner,  Bos- 
well,  I,  having  dreamt  a  few  nights  ago  that  I  had 
whipt  you  severely,  find  my  wrath  and  resentment 
very  much  mollified ;  not  so  much  indeed,  I  confess,  as 
if  1  had  really  had  the  pleasure  of  correcting  you; 
but  however  I  am  pretty  well  satisfied.  You  was  quite 
mistaken  as  to  the  manner  I  bore  your  silence ;  I  only 
thought  it  was  a  little  droll. 

Donaldson  tells  me  that  he  wants  thirty  or  forty 
pages  to  complete  his  volume.  Pray  don't  let  him 
insert  any  nonsense  to  fill  it  up ;  but  try  John  Home 

and  John  R ,  who,  I  hear,  is  a  very  good  poet. 

You  may  also  hint  the  thing  to  Mr.  N ,  and  to 

my  brother  Lord  K ,  who  has  some  excellent 

poems  by  him. 

Since  I  saw  you,  I  received  a  letter  from  Mr. 

D :*  it  is  filled  with  encomiums  upon  you.  He 

says  there  is  a  great  deal  of  humility  in  your  vanity, 
a  great  deal  of  tallness  in  your  shortness,  and  a  great 
deal  of  whiteness  in  your  black  complexion.  He  says, 
there  is  a  great  deal  of  poetry  in  your  prose,  and  a 

*  Probably  Mr.  Dempster. 


BOSWELL    AND    ERSKINE.  391 

great  deal  of  prose  in  your  poetry.  He  says,  that  as 
to  your  late  publication,  there  is  a  great  deal  of  Ode 
in  your  Dedication,  and  a  great  deal  of  Dedication  in 

your  Ode ;  it  would  amaze  you  to  see  how  D 

keeps  up  this  see-saw,  which,  you'll  remark,  has  pro- 
digious wit  in  it.  He  says,  there  is  a  great  deal  of 
coat  in  your  waistcoat,  and  a  great  deal  of  waistcoat 
in  your  coat ;  that  there  is  a  great  deal  of  liveliness 
in  your  stupidity,  and  a  great  deal  of  stupidity  in  your 
liveliness.  But  to  write  you  all  he  says  would  require 
rather  more  fire  in  my  grate  than  there  is  at  present ; 
and  my  fingers  would  undoubtedly  be  numbed,  for 
there  is  a  great  deal  of  snow  in  this  frost,  and  a  great 
deal  of  frost  in  this  snow.  In  short,  upon  this  occa- 
sion he  writes  like  a  Christian  and  a  poet,  and  a  phy- 
sician and  an  orator,  and  a  Jew. 

Pray,  Boswell,  tell  me  particularly  in  your  first  letter, 
how  '  Eingal'  has  been  received ;  that  book  will  serve 
me  as  a  criterion  to  discover  the  taste  of  the  present 
age.  Boswell,  imitate  me  in  your  writing ;  observe 
how  closely  the  lines  are  joined,  how  near  the  words 
are  written  to  one  another,  and  how  small  the  letters 
are  formed.  I  am  praiseworthy  in  this  particular. 
Adieu !  Yours  sincerely, 

ANDREW  ERSKINE. 


Edinburgh,  January  22,  1762. 

Dear  Erskine, 

I  would  not,  for  all  the  books  in  Donaldson's  shop, 
that  our  correspondence  should  cease.     Rather,  much 


392  ADDITIONAL    LETTERS. 

rather,  would  I  trot  a  horse  in  the  hottest  day  in 
summer  between  Fort  George  and  Aberdeen  ;  rather, 
much  rather,  would  I  hold  the  office  of  him  who  every 
returning  noon  plays  upon  the  music-bells  of  the  good 
town  of  Edinburgh ;  and  rather,  much  rather,  would 
I  be  condemned  to  pass  the  next  seven  years  of  my 
life  as  a  spiritless  student  at  the  College  of  Glasgow. 

Let  our  wit,  my  friend,  continue  to  shine  in  a  suc- 
cession of  brilliant  sparkles.  Let  there  be  no  more 
distance  between  each  flash  of  vivacity,  but  what  is 
necessary  for  giving  time  to  observe  its  splendid  radi- 
ance. I  hope  I  shall  never  again  approach  so  near 
the  clod  of  clay :  I  hope  the  fire  of  my  genius  shall 
never  again  be  so  long  in  kindling,  or  so  much  covered 
up  with  the  dross  of  stupidity. 

I  have  desired  Donaldson  to  cause  his  correspondent 
at  London  to  send  a  copy  of  the  first  volume  of  his 
collection  to  each  of  the  Reviews ;  that  is  to  say,  to 
Hamilton  and  Griffiths,  with  whose  names  the  slate- 
blue  covers  of  these  awful  oracles  of  criticism  are  in- 
scribed. 

Donaldson  has  yet  about  thirty-six  pages  of  the 
second  volume  to  print.  I  have  given  him  two  hun- 
dred lines  more.  He  is  a  loadstone  of  prodigious 
power,  and  attracts  all  my  poetic  needles.  The  vo- 
lume will  be  out  next  week  :  the  different  pieces  of 
which  it  is  composed  are,  to  be  sure,  not  all  of  equal 
merit;  but  is  not  that  the  case  in  every  miscella- 
neous collection,  even  in  that  excellent  one  published 
by  Mr.  Dodsley?  The  truth  is,  that  a  volume  printed 


BOSWELL  AND  ERSKINE.  393 

in  a  small  type  exhausts  an  infinite  quantity  of  copy 
(to  talk  technically),  so  that  we  must  not  be  over- 
nice  in  our  choice,  nor  think  every  man  in  our  ranks 
below  size  who  does  not  come  up  to  the  elevated 
standard  of  Captain  Andrew. 

D 5s  encomiums  have  rendered  my  humility 

still  prouder ;  they  are  indeed  superb,  and  worthy  of 
an  opposer  of  the  German  War.  I  suppose  they  have 
not  lost  a  bit  of  beef  by  their  long  journey ;  and  I 
should  imagine  that  the  Highland  air  has  agreed  well 
with  them,  and  that  they  have  agreed  well  with  the 
Highland  air.  They  occasioned  much  laughter  in  my 
heart,  and  much  heart  in  my  laughter. 

They  have  at  last  given  over  marrying  me ;  so  that 
I  am  going  about  like  a  horse  wanting  a  halter,  ready 
to  be  bridled  and  saddled  by  the  first  person  who  is 
so  very  fortunate  as  to  lay  hold  of  me, — a  simile  not 
to  be  found  in  any  author  ancient  or  modern. 

We  had  a  splendid  ball  at  the  Abbey  of  Holyrood 
House  on  the  Queen's  birthday,  given  by  Colonel 
Graeme.  I  exhibited  my  existence  in  a  minuet,  and, 
as  I  was  dressed  in  a  full  chocolate  suit  and  wore 
my  most  solemn  countenance,  I  looked,  as  you  used  to 
tell  me,  like  the  fifth  act  of  a  deep  tragedy.  Lord 

K danced  with  Miss  C ,  by  the  fire  of  whose 

eyes  his  melodious  Lordship's  heart  is  at  present  in 
a  state  of  combustion.  Such  is  the  declaration  which 
he  makes  in  loud  whispers  many  a  time  and  oft. 

Our  friend  H S is  in  town  this  winter : 

he  is  a  most  surprising  old  fellow.  I  am  told  he  is 


394  ADDITIONAL    LETTERS. 

some  years  past  sixty;  and  yet  he  has  all  the  vivacity, 
and  frolic,  and  whim  of  the  sprightliest  youth.  He 
continues  to  rank  all  mankind  under  the  general  de- 
nomination of  Gilbert.  He  patrols  the  streets  at  mid- 
night as  much  as  ever,  and  beats  with  as  much  vigour 
the  town-guard  drum ;  nor  is  his  affection  for  the 
company  of  blind  fiddlers  in  the  least  abated. 

'Fingal'  has  been  very  warmly  received  at  London  : 
a  second  edition  of  it  has  just  now  come  out.  The 
public  taste,  you  will  allow,  is  good  at  present :  long 
may  it  last !  Long  may  the  voice  of  the  venerable 
Bard  be  heard  with  unaffected  pleasure ! 

I  see  your  regiment  is  ordered  for  England.  I  hope 
you  will  be  allowed  to  recruit,  or  have  leave  of  absence, 
as  it  would  be  very  severe  upon  you  to  be  moved  from 
your  present  situation. 

If  you  will  number  the  lines  in  our  pages,  you 
will  find  I  have  twenty-three,  whereas  you  have  only 
eighteen. 

I  enclose  you  the  sorrowful  lamentation  of  a  stabler, 
called  Hutchison,  who,  on  Wednesday  last,  was  whipped 
through  this  town,  for  forcing  away  a  young  man  as 
a  recruit,  and  beating  him  unmercifully.  The  said 
Lamentation,  you  will  find,  is  in  verse,  and,  although 
sold  for  a  single  penny,  is  a  work  of  remarkable  merit. 
The  exordium  is  a  passionate  address  to  Captains  all, 
amongst  whom,  who  can  more  properly  be  reckoned 
than  Captain  Andrew  ? 

I  remain,  your  sincere  friend, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


BOSWELL    AND    ERSKINE.  395 

New  Tarbat,  May  1,  1762. 
Well  then,  my  friend,  you  leave  the  Bar, 
Resolved  on  drums,  on  dress,  and  war, 
While  Fancy  paints  in  liveliest  hues 
Swords,  sashes,  shoulder-knots,  reviews  ; 
You  quit  the  study  of  the  laws, 
And  show  a  blade  in  Britain's  cause, 
Of  length  to  throw  into  a  trance 
The  frighten'd  Kings  of  Spain  and  France  ! 
A  hat  of  fiercest  cock  is  sought, 
And  your  cockade's  already  bought, 
While  on  your  coat  there  beams  a  lace 
That  might  a  captain-general  grace ! 

For  me,  who  never  show  admired, 
Or  very  long  ago  was  tired, 
I  can  with  face  unmoved  behold 
A  scarlet  suit  with  glittering  gold  ; 
And,  though  a  son  of  war  and  strife, 
Detest  the  listless,  languid  life ; 
Then  coolly,  Sir,  I  say,  repent, 
And  in  derision  hold  a  tent ; 
Leave  not  the  sweet  poetic  band, 
To  scold  recruits,  and  pore  on  Bland ; 
Our  military  books  won't  charm  ye, 
Nor  even  th'  enchanting  list  o'  th'  army. 

Trust  me,  'twill  be  a  foolish  sight, 
To  see  you  facing  to  the  right, 
And  then,  of  all  your  sense  bereft, 
Returning  back  unto  the  left ; 
Alas  !  what  transport  can  you  feel, 
In  turning  round  on  either  heel  ? 
Much  sooner  would  I  choose,  indeed, 
To  see  you  standing  on  your  head  ; 
Or,  with  your  breeches  off,  to  rub 
Foul  clothes,  and  dance  within  a  tub, 
Like  Scottish  lasses  on  the  green, 
When  every  naked  limb  is  seen, 
And  all  without  a  blush  reveal'd, 
By  modest  maids  with  care  conceal'd. 


396  ADDITIONAL    LETTERS. 

Besides,  my  dear  Boswell,  we  find  in  all  history, 
ancient  and  modern,  lawyers  are  very  apt  to  run 
away.  Demosthenes  the  Greek,  Writer  to  the  Signet, 
who  managed  the  great  suit  against  Philip  of  Mace- 
don,  fairly  scoured  off,  I  think,  at  the  battle  of  Che- 
ronea ;  and  Cicero,  the  Roman  advocate,  is  universally 
accused  of  cowardice.  I  am  not  indeed  ignorant  that 
some  of  your  ancestors  behaved  well  at  Flodden ;  but 
as  they  lost  the  day,  I  think  the  omen  but  bad ;  and 
as  they  were  killed,  I  think  that  makes  the  omen  still 
worse ;  however  perhaps  you  don't  think  so,  and  I 
allow  that  argument  to  be  very  convincing,  and  rather 
more  conclusive  than  if  you  had  said,  "  I  don't  know 
that." 

You  complain  much  of  the  country,  and  you  assign 
various  reasons  for  disliking  it;  among  others,  you 
imagine  the  atmosphere  too  moist  and  heavy.  I  agree 
with  you  in  that  opinion  :  all  the  black  clouds  in  the 
sky  are  continually  pressing  upon  you ;  for,  as  the  pro- 
verb says,  "  Like  draws  to  like."  Believe  me,  I  have 
sometimes  taken  you  at  a  distance  for  the  pillar  of 
smoke  which  used  to  accompany  the  Israelites  out  of 
Egypt ;  it  would  be  impossible  to  tell  how  many 
things  I  have  taken  you  for  at  different  times :  some- 
times I  have  taken  you  for  the  witches'  cauldron  in 
'Macbeth/ — this  resemblance  was  in  some  degree  war- 
ranted by  your  figure  and  shape ;  sometimes  for  an 
enormous  ink-bottle,  sometimes  for  a  funeral  proces- 
sion, now  and  then  for  a  chimney-sweeper,  and  not 
unfrequently  for  a  black-pudding.  For  my  part, 


BOSWELL    AND    ERSK1NE.  397 

Boswell,  I  must  confess  I  am  fond  of  the  country  to 
a  degree  ;  things  there  are  not  so  artificially  disguised 
as  in  towns  ;  real  sentiments  are  discovered,  and  the 
passions  play  naturally  and  without  restraint.  As,  for 
example,  it  was  only  in  the  country  I  could  have  found 

out  Lady  J 's  peculiar  attachment  to  the  tune  of 

'  Appie  MacNab ; '  in  the  town,  no  doubt,  she  would 
have  pretended  a  great  liking  for  '  Voi  Amanti :'  in  the 

town,  I  never  would  have  seen  Lady  B go  out 

armed  for  fear  of  the  turkey-cock,  which  is  her  daily 
practice  here,  and  leaves  room  for  numberless  reflec- 
tions. She  cannot  eat  turkeys,  when  roasted  or  boiled ; 
and  she  dreads  them,  when  alive,  so  much,  that  she 
displays  every  forenoon  a  cudgel  to  them,  fitted  by 
its  size  to  strike  terror  into  a  bull  or  a  butting  cow. 
What  can  her  keeping  of  turkeys  be  owing  to  ?  As- 
suredly to  vanity,  which  is  of  such  an  insinuating 
nature,  that  we  are  apt  very  often  to  meet  it  where 
we  least  expect  it.  I  have  seen  it  in  an  old  shoe,  in 
a  dirty  shirt,  in  a  long  nose,  a  crooked  leg,  a  red  face ; 
and  you  will  scarcely  credit  me  when  I  tell  you,  that 
I  once  met  with  it  in  a  chamber-pot  made  of  the 
coarsest  delf.  So  much  it  seemed  good  for  me  to 
say  upon  the  subject  of  vanity,  supporting  by  the 
most  irrefragable  arguments  the  doctrine  of  Solomon. 

We  had  a  visit  from  Mr.  C of  S here  this 

morning ;  he  came  in  a  chaise  drawn  by  four  bay 
horses.  I  am  certain  of  the  number.  You  may  draw 
what  inference  you  please  from  this  intelligence ;  I 
give  you  only  a  simple  narration  of  the  fact.  I  am 


398  ADDITIONAL    LETTERS. 

surprised  you  say  nothing  of  my  proposal  of  your 
coming  here,  and  still  more  that  you  say  nothing  of 
your  cub.  Why  don't  you  send  me  a  copy  ?  We 
were  all  so  much  entertained  with  your  letter  to  Lady 

B ,  that  I  was  really  seized  with  a  qualm  of  envy. 

We  regard  it  as  one  of  those  efforts  of  genius  which 
are  only  produced  by  a  fine  flow  of  spirits,  a  beautiful 
day,  and  a  good  pen. 

I  pray  you,  Boswell,  note  well  this  sheet  of  paper ; 

its  size  is  magnificent.     If  Lady  B was  possessed 

of  such  an  extent  of  plain  ground,  she  would  undoubt- 
edly throw  it  into  a  lawn,  and  plant  it  with  clumps  of 
trees ;  she  would  vary  it  with  fishponds,  and  render 
it  rural  with  flocks.  Here,  where  I  am  writing,  might 
a  cow  feed ;  here  might  be  an  arbour ;  here,  perhaps, 
might  you  recline  at  full  length  ;  by  the  edge  of  the 
stream  might  the  Captain  walk ;  and  in  this  corner 

might  Lady  B give  orders  to  her  shepherds.     I 

am  drawn,  in  the  most  irresistible  manner,  to  conclude, 
by  the  external  impulse  of  the  cloth's  being  laid,  and 
the  internal  impulse  of  being  hungry.  Believe  me, 
Boswell,  to  be  in  the  most  unconscionable  manner, 

Your  affectionate  friend, 

ANDREW  ERSKINE. 

P.S. — I  send  you  franks,  which  return  filled  with  the 
utmost  wit  and  humour. 


BOSWELL    AND    ERSKINE.  399 

My  fondness  for  the  Guards  must  appear  very 
strange  to  you,  who  have  a  rooted  antipathy  at  the 
glare  of  scarlet.  But  I  must  inform  you  that  there  is 
a  city  called  London,  for  which  I  have  as  violent  an 
affection  as  the  most  romantic  lover  ever  had  for  his 
mistress.  There  a  man  may  indeed  soap  his  own 
beard,  and  enjoy  whatever  is  to  be  had  in  this  transi- 
tory state  of  things.  Every  agreeable  whim  may  be 
freely  indulged  without  censure.  I  hope  however  you 
will  not  impute  my  living  in  England  to  the  same 
cause  for  which  Hamlet  was  advised  to  go  there, — be- 
cause the  people  were  all  as  mad  as  himself.* 

I  long  much  for  another  of  our  long  conversations 
on  a  fine  forenoon  after  breakfast,  while  the  sun  sheds 
light  and  gladness  around  us.  Yours  sincerely, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 


New  Tarbat,  May  25,  1762. 

Dear  Boswell, 

It  has  been  said  that  few  people  succeed  both  in 
poetry  and  prose.  Homer's  prose  essay  on  the  Gun- 
powder Plot  is  reckoned  by  all  critics  inferior  to  the 
'  Iliad,'  and  Warburton's  rhyming  satire  on  the  Me- 
thodists is  allowed  by  all  to  be  superior  to  his  pro- 
saical  notes  on  Pope's  Works.  Let  it  be  mine  to 
unite  the  excellencies  both  of  prose  and  verse  in  my 
inimitable  epistles.  Erom  this  day  my  prose  shall 

*  "  The  earth  is  as  thirsty  as  Boswell,  and  cracked  all  over  its  sur- 
face, as  certainly  as  he  is  in  one  part."  (Letter  of  John  Wilkes.) — 
ED. 


400  ADDITIONAL    LETTERS. 

have  a  smack  of  verse,  and  my  verse  shall  have  a 
smack  of  prose.  I  '11  give  you  a  specimen  of  both. 
My  servant  addresses  me  in  these  words  very  often  : — 

"  The  roll  is  butter'd,  and  the  kettle  boil'd, 
Your  Honour's  newest  coat  with  grease  is  soil'd ; 
In  your  best  breeches  glares  a  mighty  hole, 
Your  wash-ball  and  pomatum,  Sir,  are  stole. 
Your  tailor,  Sir,  must  payment  have,  that's  plain  ; 
He  called  today,  and  said  he  'd  call  again." 

There 's  prosaic  poetry  ;  now  for  poetic  prose.  "  Uni- 
versal genius  is  a  wide  and  diffused  stream  that  waters 
the  country  and  makes  it  agreeable ;  'tis  true  it  cannot 
receive  ships  of  any  burthen,  therefore  it  is  of  no  solid 
advantage,  yet  is  it  very  amusing.  Gondolas  and 
painted  barges  float  upon  its  surface;  the  country- 
gentleman  forms  it  into  ponds,  and  it  is  spouted  out 
of  the  mouths  of  various  statues ;  it  strays  through  the 
finest  fields,  and  its  banks  nourish  the  most  blooming 
flowers.  Let  me  sport  with  this  stream  of  science, 
wind  along  the  vale  and  glide  through  the  trees,  foam 
down  the  mountain  and  sparkle  in  the  sunny  ray.  But 
let  me  avoid  the  deep,  nor  lose  myself  in  the  vast  pro- 
found; and  grant  that  I  may  never  be  pent  in  the 
bottom  of  a  dreary  cave,  or  be  so  unfortunate  as  to 
stagnate  in  some  unwholesome  marsh.  Limited  genius 
is  a  pump- well  very  useful  in  all  the  common  occur- 
rences of  life ;  the  water  drawn  from  it  is  of  service  to 
the  maids  in  washing  their  aprons ;  it  boils  beef,  and 
it  scours  the  stairs ;  it  is  poured  into  the  teakettles  of 
the  ladies,  and  into  the  punchbowls  of  the  gentlemen." 


BOS  WELL    AND    ERSKINE.  401 

Having  thus  given  you,  in  the  most  clear  and 
distinct  manner,  my  sentiments  of  genius,  I  proceed 
to  give  you  my  opinion  of  the  ancient  and  modern 
writers, — a  subject,  you  must  confess,  very  aptly  and 
naturally  introduced.  I  am  going  to  be  very  serious. 
You  will  trace  a  resemblance  between  me  and  Sir 
William  Temple,  or  perhaps  David  Hume,  Esq. 

A  modern  writer  must  content  himself  with  glean- 
ing a  few  thoughts  here  and  there,  and  binding  them 
together  without  order  or  regularity,  that  the  variety 
may  please.  The  ancients  have  reaped  the  full  of  the 
harvest,  and  killed  the  noblest  of  the  game ;  in  vain  do 
we  beat  about  the  once  plenteous  fields ;  the  dews  are 
exhaled,  no  scent  remains.  How  glorious  was  the  fate 
of  the  early  writers !  born  in  the  infancy  of  letters, 
their  task  was  to  reject  thoughts  more  than  to  seek 
after  them,  and  to  select  out  of  a  number  the  most 
shining,  the  most  striking,  and  the  most  susceptible 
of  ornament.  The  poet  saw  in  his  walks  every  pleas- 
ing object  of  nature  undescribed;  his  heart  danced 
with  the  gale,  and  his  spirits  shone  with  the  invigorat- 
ing sun ;  his  works  breathed  nothing  but  rapture  and 
enthusiasm.  Love  then  spoke  with  its  genuine  voice, 
the  breast  was  melted  down  with  woe,  the  whole  soul 
was  dissolved  into  pity  with  its  tender  complaints, 
free  from  the  conceits  and  quibbles  which  since  that 
time  have  rendered  the  very  name  of  it  ridiculous  : 
real  passion  heaved  the  sigh  •  real  passion  uttered  the 
most  prevailing  language.  Music  too  reigned  in  its 
full  force  ;  that  soft  deluding  art,  whose  pathetic  strains 


402  ADDITIONAL    LETTERS. 

so  gently  steal  into  our  very  souls  and  involve  us  in 
the  sweetest  confusion,  or  whose  animating  strains 
fire  us  even  to  madness.  How  has  the  shore  of  Greece 
echoed  with  the  wildest  sounds  !  the  delicious  war- 
blings  of  the  lyre  charmed  and  astonished  every  ear. 
The  blaze  of  rhetoric  then  burst  forth ;  the  ancients 
sought  not  by  false  thoughts  and  glittering  diction  to 
captivate  the  ear,  but  by  manly  and  energetic  modes 
of  expression  to  rule  the  heart  and  sway  the  passions. 
There,  Boswell,  there  are  periods  for  you  !  Did  not 
you  imagine  that  you  was  reading  the  '  Rambler '  of 
Mr.  Samuel  Johnson,  or  that  Mr.  Thomas  Sheridan 
himself  was  resounding  the  praises  of  the  ancients, 
and  his  own  art  ?  I  shall  now  finish  this  letter  without 
the  least  blaze  of  rhetoric,  and,  with  no  very  manly  or 
energetic  mode  of  expression,  assure  you  that 

I  am,  yours  sincerely, 

ANDREW  ERSKINE. 


Kelly,  July  6,  1762. 

Dear  Boswell, 

I  imagined  that,  by  ceasing  to  write  to  you  for  some 
time,  I  should  be  able  to  lay  up  a  stock  of  materials 
unusual  to  astonish  you,  and  that  like  a  river  dammed 
up,  when  let  loose  I  should  flow  on  with  unusual 
rapidity  ;  or  like  a  man  who  has  not  beat  his  wife  for 
a  fortnight,  I  should  cudgel  you  with  my  wit  for  hours 
together ;  but  I  find  the  contrary  of  all  this  is  the 
case.  I  resemble  a  person  long  absent  from  his  native 


BOSWELL    AND    ERSKINE.  403 

country,  of  which  he  has  formed  a  thousand  endearing 
ideas,  and  to  which  he  at  last  returns ;  but,  alas !  he 
beholds  with  sorrowful  eyes  everything  changed  for  the 
worse :  the  town  where  he  was  born,  which  used  to 
have  two  snows*  and  three  sloops  trading  to  all  parts 
of  the  known  world,  is  not  now  master  of  two  fishing- 
boats  :  the  steeple  of  the  church,  where  he  used  to 
sleep  in  his  youth,  is  rent  with  lightning ;  and  the 
girl  on  whom  he  had  placed  his  early  affections,  has 
had  three  bastard  children,  and  is  just  going  to  be 
delivered  of  a  fourth.     Or  I  resemble  a  man  who  has 
had  a  fine  waistcoat  lying  long  in  the  very  bottom  of 
a  chest,  which  he  is  determined  shall  be  put  on  at  the 
hunter's  ball ;  but  woe's  me,  the  lace  is  tarnished,  and 
the  moths  have  devoured  it  in  a  melancholy  manner. 
These  few  similies  may  serve  to  show  that  this  letter 
has  little  chance  of  being  a  good  one,  yet  they  don't 
make  the  affair  certain.     Prince  Ferdinand  beat  the 
French  at  Minden  ;  Sheridan,  in  his  Lectures,  some- 
times spoke  sense,  and  John  Home  wrote  one  good 
play.    I  have  read  Lord  Kames's  'Elements,'  and  agree 
very  heartily  with  the  opinion  of  the  Critical  Reviewers; 
however,  I  could  often  have  wished  that  his  Lordship 
had  been  less  obscure,  or  that  I  had  had  more  pene- 
tration.   He  praises  the  '  Mourning  Bride'  excessively ; 
which  nevertheless  I  can't  help  thinking  a  very  indif- 
ferent play :  the  plot  wild  and  improbable,  and  the 
language  infinitely  too  high  and  swelling.     It  is  curi- 
ous to  see  the  opinions  of  the  Reviewers  concerning 

"*  A  vessel  with  two  masts. 


404  ADDITIONAL    LETTERS. 

you  and  me.  They  take  you  for  a  poor  distressed 
gentleman  writing  for  bread,  and  me  for  a  very  im- 
pudent Irishman  ;  whereas  you  are  heir  to  a  thousand 
a-year,  and  I  am  one  of  the  most  bashful  Scotsmen 
that  ever  appeared.  I  confess  indeed  my  bashfulness 
does  not  appear  in  my  Works,  for  them  I  print  in  the 
most  impudent  manner,  being  exceeded  in  that  re- 
spect by  nobody  but  James  Boswell,  Esq. 

Yours,  etc., 

ANDREW  ERSKINE. 


The  following  letter  to  Mr.  Dempster,  hitherto  un- 
published, has  been  communicated  to  the  Editor  by 
a  friend.  Mr.  Dempster  has  been  before  referred  to 
(pp.  20  and  32)  as  allied  with  Erskine  and  Boswell 
in  concocting  a  pamphlet  upon  Mallet's  '  Elvira,'  and 
as  having  greatly  displeased  Dr.  Johnson  by  his  scep- 
tical arguments  and  opinions.  Mr.  Dempster  repre- 
sented the  Perth  Burghs  for  many  years,  and  died  in 
1818,  at  the  advanced  age  of  eighty-six.  He  was  a 
supporter  of  Lord  Buckingham,  and  is  referred  to  by 
Burns  in  his  '  Earnest  Cry  and  Prayer  to  the  Scotch 
Representatives.' 

"  Dempster,  a  true-blue  Scot,  I'se  warran, 
Thee,  aith  detesting,  chaste  Kilkerran, 
An  that  glib-gabbet  Highland  Baron, 

The  Laird  of  o'Graham ; 
An  one,  a  chap  that's  d — d  auld-i'amm, 

Dundas  his  name." 


LETTER,    OF    BOSWELL    TO    DEMPSTER.  405 

The  poem  alluded  to  by  Boswell  was  possibly  one 
upon  the  "  Slave-trade,"  which  it  is  believed  he  wrote, 
although  very  uncertain  traces  of  it  can  be  found  at 
the  present  day.  Indeed  in  this  respect  it  only  shares 
the  fate  of  several  other  of  Boswell's  writings,  the  li- 
braries and  catalogues  not  containing  any  notice  what- 
ever of  them/* 

London,  April  19,  1791. 
My  dear  Dempster, 

We  must  not  entirely  lose  sight  of  one  another,  or 
rather,  we  must  not  suffer  out  of  sight  out  of  mind 
to  be  applicable  to  two  such  old  friends,  who  have 
always  lived  pleasantly  together,  though  of  principles 
directly  opposite.  I  was  happy  that  your  accepting 
one  of  Mr.  Pulteney's  Seats  proved  a  false  rumour, 
for  it  would  have  been  a  sad  degradation ;  but  though 
not  in  Parliament,  you  can  be  mischievous  enough  as  a 
"  Whiff  Doy,"  as  Johnson  would  say,  or  rather,  as  some- 
thing even  beyond  that ;  for  you  are  for  that  most  hor- 
rible anarchy  the  French  Revolution. 

*  The  same  remark  applies  to  Mr.  Temple's  writings.  For  in- 
stance, in  one  of  the  Letters  (March,  1793)  which  he  preserved  along 
with  Boswell's  correspondence,  reference  is  thus  made  to  some  un- 
known publication  in  which  Temple,  it  appears,  had  criticized  Dr. 
Johnson.  "  I  am  glad,"  says  the  writer  of  the  letter  in  question, 
"the  swollen  and  bloated  reputation  of  Johnson  owes  to  your  pen 
a  very  fair  and  just  pruning  and  reduction."  In  other  letters  from 
other  correspondents  it  would  seem  that  Mr.  Temple  had  amongst 
his  friends  those  who  (like  himself)  had  no  admiration  for  Dr.  John- 
son, and  (unlike  himself)  a  great  contempt  for  Boswell.  "  Who," 
writes  one,  "  would  purchase  fame  as  an  author,  or  in  any  other 
wav,  o;i  such  terms  as  this  creature,  Boswell?" — ED. 


406  ADDITIONAL    LETTERS. 

I  some  time  ago  resigned  my  Recordership  of  Car- 
lisle. I  perceived  that  no  advantage  would  accrue 
from  it ;  I  could  satisfy  you  in  conversation  that  I  was 
right. 

The  melancholy  event  of  losing  my  valuable  wife  will, 
I  fear,  never  allow  me  to  have  real  comfort.  You  can- 
not imagine  how  it  hangs  upon  my  spirits ;  yet  I  can 
talk  and  write,  and  in  short  force  myself  to  a  won- 
derful degree.  I  enclose  you  a  Poem  which  I  have 
published,  upon  a  subject  on  which  I  never  heard 
your  sentiments,  but  I  could  lay  my  life  you  are  one 
of  the  pretty  theorists ;  however  you  will  have  can- 
dour enough  to  allow  that  I  have  worked  well. 

I  have  a  good  house  in  Great  Portland  Street.  My 
two  eldest  daughters  live  with  me ;  my  youngest  is  at 
a  boarding-school  at  Chelsea ;  my  eldest  son  is  at  Eton, 
my  second  at  Westminster.  I  am  sadly  straitened  in 
my  circumstances ;  I  can  but  exist,  as  to  expense ;  but 
they  are  so  good  to  me  here,  that  I  have  a  full  share  of 
the  metropolitan  advantages. 

My  magnum  opus,  the  '  Life  of  Dr.  Johnson/  in  two 
volumes  quarto,  is  to  be  published  on  Monday,  16th 
May.  It  is  too  great  a  book  to  be  given  in  presents, 
as  I  gave  my  'Tour,'  so  you  must  not  expect  one, 
though  you  yourself  form  a  part  of  its  multifarious 
contents.  I  really  think  it  will  be  the  most  entertain- 
ing collection  that  has  appeared  in  this  age.  When 
it  is  fairly  launched  I  mean  to  stick  close  to  West- 
minster Hall,  and  it  will  be  truly  kind  if  you  recom- 
mend me  appeals,  or  causes  of  any  sort. 


LETTER    OP    BOSWELL    TO    DEMPSTER.  407 

Pray,  let  me  have  a  long  account  of  you  as  a  Rus- 
ticus.  My  compliments  to  Mrs.  Dempster. 

Ever  most  truly  yours, 

JAMES  BOSWELL. 

Such  a  request  (it  may  be  observed)  as  that  made 
in  the  latter  part  of  the  above  letter,  to  the  effect  that 
his  friend  should  "  recommend"  business  to  Boswell, 
is  understood  to  be  strictly  unprofessional  at  the  Eng- 
lish Bar,  wherever  at  least  it  becomes  known.  This 
breach  of  conventional  etiquette  was  however  more  un- 
availing in  Boswell' a  case  than  that  of  many  others ; 
he  had  as  little  success  at  the  Bar  as  in  politics ;  he 
obtained  neither  place,  profit,  nor  reputation  by  either 
of  these  walks  in  life.  His  title  to  fame  or  the  grati- 
tude of  the  world  is  based  alone  upon  the  successful 
prosecution  of  his  literary  pursuits. 


THE    END. 


194004 


PHINTKD  BY 

JOHN  EDWARD  TATLOB,  LITTLE  QUEEN  STREET, 
LINCOLN'S  INN  FIELDS. 


PR  3325  .A85  T4  1857 
SMC 

BOSWELL,  JAMES, 

1740-1795 . 
LETTERS  OF  JAMES  BOSWELL 

ADDRESSED  TO  THE  REV, 
AJX-1917  (AB) 


OAV  uaaq 

pm{  uSittdureo  30 


