Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 




J^arbarU CoIIcgr iilirarg 



SAMl'KL SIl ArLKKJII. 



LETTERS OF SAMUEL JOHNSON 



G. BIRKBECK HILL 



VOL. n. 



Sonbsn 
HENRY FROWDE 




OxpoiD UmviuiTV Pbess Warihousk 

AUSN COBNBR, E.C. 



Letters 



OF 



Samuel Johnson, ll.d. 



COLLECTED AND EDITED 

By GEORGE BIRKBECK HILL, D.C.L. 

ft 

PEMBROKE COLLEGE, OXFORD 
EDITOR OF BOSWELL's * LIFE OF JOHNSON * 



IN TWO VOLUMES: VOL. II 



Jan. 15, 1777 — Dec. 18, 1784 



OXFORD 

AT THE CLARENDON PRESS 

MDCCCXCII 



/^^^"^ 







/ 






0;pfor5 



PRINTED AT THE CLARENDON PRESS 
BY HORACE HART, rRIMTKR TO THE UNIVERSITY 






-J 



LETTERS OF DR. JOHNSON. 



-M- 



606. 

o Mrs. Thrale'. 

Wednesday, Jan. 15, One in the morning, 1777. 
Omnium rerum vicissitudo^. The night after last Thursday 
was so bad, that I took ipecacuanha the next day. The next 
night was no better. On Saturday I dined with Sir Joshua. 
The night was such as I was forced to rise and pass some hours 
in a chair, with great labour of respiration. I found it now time 
to do something, and went to Dr. Lawrence ^, and told him I 
would do what he should order, without reading the prescription. 
He sent for a chirurgeon * and took about twelve ounces of blood, 
and in the afternoon I got sleep in a chair. 

At night, when I came to lie down after trial of an ^hour or 
two, I found sleep impracticable, and therefore did what the 
Doctor permitted in a case of distress ; I rose, and opening the 
orifice, let out about ten ounces more. Frank and I were but 
awkward ; but, with Mr. Levet's help ^ we stopped the stream, 

■ Piozzi LetierSy i. 343. surgeon.* Under Surgeon he writes 

* ' Omnium rerum heus vicissitudo * corrupted by conversation from chi^ 

est.* rurgeon* Dr. Murray in his Diction- 

Terence. Eunuchusy ii. 2. 45. ary gives no later instance in prose 

For ' the sad vicissitude of things,' of this spelling than one found in one 

see Life, v. 117. of Johnson's Letters. 

' Ante, i. 47, n, 2. * Levett, * the obscure practiser in 

* Johnson in his Dictionary under physic,' had a room in his house. 
C*/rKr^(f<7«, says * it is now generally *I have heard Johnson say,* writes 
pronounced, and by many written, Boswell, ' he should not be satisfied, 

VOL. IL B and 



To Mrs. Aston. 



[A.D. 1777. 



and I lay down again, though to little purpose ; the difficulty of 
breathing allowed no rest. I slept again in the day-time, in an 
erect posture. The Doctor has ordered a second bleeding, 
which I hope will set my breath at liberty *. Last night I could 
lie but a little at a time. 

Yet I do not make it a matter of much form. I was to-day at 
Mrs. Gardiner's ^ When I have bled to-morrow, I will not give 
up Langton, nor Paradise ^ But I beg that you will fetch me 
away on Friday. I do not know but clearer air may do me 
good ; but whether the air be clear or dark, let me come to you. 

I am, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 
To sleep, or not to sleep '* 

607. 

To James Boswell. 
[London], February i8, 1777. Published in the Life^ iii. 104. 

608. 

To George Steevens. 
[London], February 25, 1777. Published in the Life^ iii. 100. 

609. 

To Mrs. Aston ^. 
Dear Madam, Bolt-Court, March 8, 1777. 

As we pass on through the journey of life, we meet, and 
ought to expect, many unpleasing occurrences, but many like- 
wise encounter us unexpected. I have this morning heard from 
Lucy^ of your illness. I heard, indeed, in the next sentence 



though attended by all the College 
of Physicians, unless he had Mr. 
Levet with him.* Ufe^ i. 243. 

* Johnson wrote to Boswell on 
February 18 : — * I have been so dis- 
tressed by difficulty of breathing that 
I lost, as was computed, six and 
thirty ounces of blood in a few days.' 
lb, ill 104. See ib. iii. 152, «. 3, for 
his resort to bleeding. 



' *The wife of a tallow chandler 
on Snow Hill, not in the learned way, 
but a worthy good woman.' lb, i. 242. 

^ Anie^ i. 314. 

* He is parodying Hamlet^ Act iii. 
so. 1,1. 56 :— * To be, or not to be.* 

* Published in Croker's Boswell^ 
page 528. 

* Miss Porter, Mrs. Aston's near 
neighbour at Lichfield. 

that 



▲etat. 67.] To Mrs. AstOH. 



that you are to a great degree recovered. May your recovery, 
dearest Madam, be complete and lasting I The hopes of paying 
you the annual visit is one of the few solaces with which my 
imagination gratifies me ; and my wish is, that I may find you 
happy. 

My health is much broken ; my nights are very restless, and 
will not be made more comfortable by remembering that one of 
the friends whom I value most is suffering equally with myself. 
Be pleased, dearest lady, to let me know how you are ; and if 
writing be troublesome, get dear Mrs. Gastrell ' to write for you. 
I hope she is well and able to assist you ; and wish that you may 
so well recover, as to repay her kindness, if she should want 
you. May you both live long happy together 1 

I am, 

Dear Madam, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

610. 

To James Boswell. 
[London], March ii, 1777. Published in the Life, iii. 105. 

611. 

To Mrs. Aston*. 
Dearest Madam, 

The letter with which I was favoured [by] the kindness of 

Mrs. Gastrel has contributed very little to quiet my solicitude. 

I am indeed more frighted than by Mrs. Porter's account. Yet 

since you have had strength to conquer your disorder so as to 

obtain a partial recovery, I think it reasonable to believe that 

the favourable season which is now coming forward, may restore 

you to your former health. Do not, dear Madam, lose your 

courage, nor by despondence or inactivity give way to the 

disease. Use such exercise as you can bear, and excite cheerful 

thoughts in your own mind. Do not harrass \sic\ your faculties 

' Mrs. Aston's sister. Anie^ i. 160, weily page 529. Corrected by me 
n, 4. from the original in Pembroke 

* First published in Croker's Bos- College Library. 

B 2 with 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A.D. 1777. 



with laborious attention, nothing is, in my opinion, of more 
mischievous tendency in a state of body like yours, than deep 
meditation, or perplexing solitude. Gayety is a duty when 
health requires it'. Entertain yourself as you can with small 
amusements or light conversation, and let nothing but your 
devotion ever make you serious. But while I exhort you, my 
dearest lady, to merriment, I am very serious myself. The loss 
or danger df a friend is not to be considered with indifference ; 
but I derive some consolation from the thought, that you do not 
languish unattended, that you are not in the hands of strangers 
or servants, but have a Sister at hand to watch your wants and 
supply them. If at this distance I can be of any use by con- 
sulting Physicians or for any other purpose I hope you will 
employ me. 

I have thought on a journey to Staffordshire, and hope in 
a few weeks to climb StowhilP, and to find there the pleasure 
which I have so often found. Let me hear again from you. 

I am, dear Madam, 

Your most humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 

March 15, 1777. 

512. 
To Mrs. Thrale'. 

Madam, March 19, 1777. 

Be pleased to procure the bearer credit for a linen gown, 
and let her bring the bill to me. 

Did you stay all night at Sir Joshua's? and keep Miss up 
again ? Miss Owen had a sight — all the Burkes — the Harris's — 



' This was a lesson which he often 
taught : ' Grief has its time ' he said. 
Life^ iv. 121. * Grief is a species of 
idleness,' he wrote to Mrs. Thrale. 
Ante J i. 212. 'Encourage yourself 
in bustle, and variety, and cheerful- 
ness,* he wrote to her ten weeks after 
the death of her only surviving son. 
Ante, i. 406. ' Even to think in the 
most reasonable manner,* he said at 
another time, ' is for the present not 



so useful as not to think.* Antey i. 
293. When Mr. Thrale died, he 
wrote to his widow : — * I think busi- 
ness the best remedy for grief, as 
soon as it can be admitted.* Post^ 
Letter of April 11, 178 1. To Dr. 
Taylor he wrote : — * Sadness only 
multiplies self.' Posty Letter of Au- 
gust 3, 1779. 

* Her house was on Stow Hill. 

' Piozzi LetterSy i. 345. 

Miss 



Aetot. 67.] 



To Mrs, Thrale, 



Miss Reynolds — what has she to see more ? and Mrs. Horneck, 
and Miss'. 

You are all young, and gay, and easy; but I have miserable 
nights, and know not how to make them better; but I shift 
pretty well a-days, and so have at you all at Dr. Bumey's 
to-morrow'. 

I never thought of meeting you at Sir Joshua's, nor knew that 

It was a gp'eat day. But things, as sages have observed, happen 

unexpectedly; and you thought little of seeing me this fortnight 

except to-morrow. But go where you will, and see if I do not 

catch you. When I am away, every body runs away with you, 

and carries you among the grisettes, or whither they will. 

I hope you will find the want of me twenty times before 

you see me. 

I am, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 



' ' Miss * who was kept up again 
was Miss Thrale. Miss Bumey de- 
scribes her at this time as just * verg- 
ing on her teens. She is certainly 
handsome, and her beauty is of a 
peculiar sort ; fair, round, firm, and 
cherubimical ; widi its chief charm 
exactly where lies the mother*s failure 
— namely in the mouth. She is reck- 
oned cold' and proud ; but I believe 
her to be merely shy and reserved. 
She was very silent, but very ob- 
servant ; and never looked tired 
though she never uttered a syllable.' 
Memoirs of Dr» Bumey ^ ii. 88. See 
also Early Diary of Frances Bumey ^ 
ii. 153. 'Miss Owen, who is a re- 
lation of Mrs. Thrale's, is good- 
humoured and sensible enough. She 
is a sort of butt, and as such is 
a genera] favourite ; though she is 
a willing, and not a mean butt ; for 
she is a woman of family and fortune.* 
Memoirs of Dr, Bumey y ii. 88. 

*A11 the Burkes' would be Ed- 
mund Burke and his wife, his brother 
Richard, and his friend and distant 
relative William Burke, both of whom 



together with Edmund are described 
in Goldsmith's Retaliation. 

Harris was 'Hermes' Harris. Ufe^ 
ii. 225, and post^ Letter of April 25, 
1780. His wife. Miss Bumey de- 
scribes as *• in nothing extraordinary ; 
a so, so, sort of woman.' Early 
Diary^ &c., ii. 57. The editor in a 
note protests against this judgment, 
appealing to the merits of her pub- 
lished letters. 

For the Homecks see Life^ i. 414, 
and ante^ i. 221, n, 3. 

' Miss Bumey, on January 9, 1788, 
in the days of her servitude at Court, 
records that the first volume of John- 
son's Letters to Mrs, Thrale^ as yet 
unpublished, was lent to her. ' The 
book belongs to the Bishop of Car- 
lisle [Dr. Douglas], who lent it to 
Mr. Turbulent [a gentleman who read 
to the Queen], from whom it was 
again lent to the Queen, and so 
passed on to Mrs. Schwellenberg. 
Our name once occurs ; how I started 
at its sight! *Tis to mention the 
party that planned the first visit to 
our house : Miss Owen, Mr. Seward, 

To 



To Henry Thrale. 



[A.D. 1777. 



513. 

To Henry Thrale*. 

Dear Sir, April 9, 1777. 

This is a letter of pure congratulation. I congratulate you, 

1. That you are alive'. 

2. That you have got my mistress fixed again after her excen- 
tricities. 

3. That my mistress has added to her conquests the Prince of 
Castiglione^. 



Mrs. and Miss Thrale, and Dr. John- 
son. How well shall we ever, my 
Susan, remember that morning ! ' 
The next day she records : — * Mrs. 
Schwellenberg told me that in the 
second volume I also was mentioned. 
It has given me a sickness at heart 
inexpressible. It is not that I expect 
severity; for previous to the mar- 
riage with Piozzi, if Mrs. Thrale loved 
not F. B. where shall we find faith 
in words ? But her present resent- 
ment of my constant disapprobation 
of her conduct may prompt some 
note, or other mark, to point out her 
change of sentiments.' The Queen 
said to Miss Bumey : — * I said to 
Mr. Langton at the Drawing-room : 
— "Your friend. Dr. Johnson, Sir, 
has had many friends busy to publish 
his books, and his memoirs, and his 
meditations, and his thoughts ; but 
I think he wanted one friend more," 
''What for? Ma'am," cried he. '*A 
friend to suppress them," I an- 
swered.' Mme. D'Arbla/s Memoirs , 
iv. 15, 19,22. 

Miss Bumey in a letter written at 
the time describes the party at her 
father's : — * Mrs. Thrale is a very 
pretty woman still ; she is extremely 
lively and chatty ; has no supercilious 
or pedantic airs, and is really gay 
and agreeable.* Early Diary, &c., 
ii. 153. This letter she published 
fifty-five years later in an altered 



form. In it she says : — * I liked her 
in every thing except her ent^nce 
into the room, which was rather fiorid 
and flourishing, as who should say, 
" It's I ! — No less a person than 
Mrs. Thrale.'" Memoirs of Dr, 
Burney, ii. 88. 

In the original letter she gives 
a long and curious description of 
Johnson. * He is indeed very ill- 
favoured ; is tall and stout, but stoops 
terribly; he is almost bent double.* 
He had on his best clothes, * being 
engaged to dine in a large company ; 
a large wig, snuff-colour coat and 
gold buttons, but no ruffles to his 
[shirt]; doughty fists, and black 
worsted stockings.' There is an 
erasure in the original ; the editor 
suspects that 'doughty fists' was 
originally * dirty fists.' Early Diary ^ 
&c., ii. 154. 

According to Wraxall {Memoirs^ 
ed. 1815, i. 138), 'the total abolition 
of buckles and ruffles * was not made 
* till the era of Jacobinism and of 
Equality in 1793 and 1794.' Sir P. 
J. Clerk, though a strong Whig, wore 
'very rich laced ruffles' as late as 
1 78 1. Life J iv. 80. 

' Piozzi Letters, i. 346. 

* * His death had appeared in the 
newspapers.' Life, iii. 107. 

^ ' Prince Gonzaga di Castiglione, 
when dining in company with Dr. 
Johnson, thinking it was a polite as 

4. That 



Aetftt. 67.] 



To John Ryland. 



4. That you will not be troubled with me till to-morrow, when 
I shall come with • • • •. 

5. That will go away in the evening. 

I am, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 



Sir, 



614. 



To John Ryland'. 



I have sent you the papers. Of this parcel I have rejected 
[? ejected] no poetry'. Of the letters there are some which 
I should be sorry to omit, some that it is not proper to 
insert, and very many which as we want room or want matter 
we may use or neglect. When we come to these we will have 
another selection. But to these I think the present plan of pub- 
lication will never bring me. His poems with his play will 
I think make two volumes, The Adventurers will make at least 
one, and for the fourth, as I think you intend four, which 
will make the subscription a guinea, if you subscribe, we have so 
much more than we want that the difficulty will be to reject. 

If Mrs. Hawkesworth sells the copy^ we are then to consider 
how many volumes she sells, and if they are fewer than we have 
matter to fill, we will be the more rigorous in our choice. 

I am for letting none stand that are only relatively good, as 
they were written in youth. The Buyer has no better bargain 



well as gay thing to drink the Doc- 
tor's health with some proof that he 
had read his works, called out from 
the top of the table to the bottom, — 
At your good health, Mr, Vagabond,^ 
Piozzi's Synonymy, ii. 358. 

' From the original in the pos- 
session of Mr. Alfred Morrison of 
Fonthill House. 

It was sold by Messrs. Sotheby & 
Co., on May 10, 1875, ^o^ £6 15J. 
(Lot 95), and by Messrs. Christie & 
Co., on June 5, 1888 (Lot 36), for /lo. 

For the subject of this Letter see 
ante, i. 412-3. 



'Had Hawkesworth's Poems been 
published perhaps there would be 
found included among them some 
poor pieces of verse assigned to 
Johnson, but I am convinced, wrongly 
assigned. Lifoy i. 177-8. Hawkes- 
worth wrote, it is stated, the pieces in 
the Gentleman's Magazine for 1746 
-8 signed Greville. See /^., 1779, 
p. 72, (where wrong references are 
given). This may be a mistake. See 
ante, i. p. 60, n, 2, for Hawkesworth's 
friendship with Fulke Greville. 

^ The copyright. 

when 



8 



To John Ryland. 



[A.D. 1777. 



when he pays for mean performances, by being told that the 
authour wrote them young*. 

If the Lady can get an hundred pounds a volume, I should 
fidvise her to take it. She may ask more. I am not willing to 
take less. 

If she prints them by subscription the volumes should be four, 
if, at her own expense, I still do not see considering the great 
quantity of our matter how they can be fewer. But in that 
I shall not be obstinate. 

I have yet not mentioned Swift's Life", nor the Novel ^ which 
together will go far towards a volume. 

Who was his Amanuensis ? that small hand strikes a reader 
with terrour. It is pale as well as small *. 

Many little things are, I believe, in the magazine ^ which 
should be marked and considered. I do not always know tliem 
but by conjecture. 

The poetry I would have printed in order of time, which he 
seems to have intended by noting the dates, which dates I should 
like to preserve, they shew the progress of [word torn off] mind, 
and of a very powerful mind ^. The same [word torn off] may 
be generally observed in the prose pieces. 

What we have to consider, and what I have considered, are 
the Authour*s credit, and the Lady's advantages. 

I should be glad to take over the whole, when you can spend 
an hour or two with, Sir, 

Your most humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 

April 12, 1777. 
To Mr. Ryland. 



■ *For his early pieces Milton 
seems to have had a degree of fond- 
ness not very laudable ; what he has 
once written he resolves to preserve, 
and gives to the public an unfinished 
poem [The Passion], which he broke 
off because he was *' nothing satisfied 
with what he had done," supposing 
his readers less nice than himself.' 
Johnson's Works ^ vii. 118. 

' Johnson begins his own Life of 



Swift by praising Hawkesworth's. 

' AlmoranandHamet; an Oriental 
Tale, By John Hawkesworth, LL.D. 
Gentleman* s Magazine j 1761, p. 273. 

* Hawkesworth twenty years ear- 
lier had attacked Johnson's * pot- 
hooks.' Ante, i. 60, n. 2. 

* The Gentleman^s Magazine, 

* Hawkesworth was * Johnson's 
closest imitator ; though,' adds Bos- 
well, 'when he had become elated 

To 



Aetat. 67.] 



To the Reverend Dr, Taylor. 



616. 

To James Boswell. 
May 3, 1777. Published in the Ufsy iii. 108. 



616. 

To THE Reverend Dr. Taylor*. 

Dear Sir, 
The weather now begins to grow tempting, and brings my 
annual excursion" into my mind. It is now an interesting 
question whether you intend to come hither again, for if you do, 
I shall endeavour to accompany you back : if you let idleness 
prevail, and stay at home, I have my own course to take. 

Mr. Lucas has just been with me. He has compelled me to 
read his tragedy, which is but a poor performance, and yet may 
perhaps put money into his pocket ; it contains nothing immoral 
or indecent, and therefore, we may very reasonably wish it 
success^. 

My nights continue to be very flatulent, and restless, and my 
days are therefore sluggish and drowsy. After physick I have 
sometimes less uneasiness, as I had last night, but the effect is 
by no means constant ; nor have I found any advantage from 
going to bed either with a full or an empty stomach. 

Let me know what you resolve about your journey, as soon as 
you have taken your resolution. 

I am, Sir, 

Your affectionate humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 

May 3, 1777. 
To the Reverend Dr. Taylor in Ashbourne, Derbyshire. 



by having risen into some degree of 
consequence, he, in a conversation 
with me, had the provoking effrontery 
to say he was not sensible of it.' 
U/e, i. 234, 252. 

' From the original in the posses- 
sion of Messrs. J. Pearson and Co., 
of 5 Pall Mall Place, S.W. 

'His annual excursion was to Lich- 
field and Ashbourne. In the thirteen 



years 1767- 1779 (inclusive) he only 
failed thrice to visit these places. 
He often stayed at Oxford and 
Birmingham on his way. Life, iii. 

452. 

' This paragraph is scored out in 
the original. In Baker's Biog, 
Dram,,ed. 1782, i. 289, Henry Lucas 
is described as a student at the 
Middle Temple, and son of the 

To 



lO 



To the Reverend Dr. Taylor, [aj>. 1777. 



617. 

To Challes O'Connor. 
[London], May 19, 1777. Published in the Life^ iii. iii. 



618. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 
Madam, May 19, 1777. 

I have written to Dr. Taylor, you may be sure, but the 
business is pretty much out of the Doctor's way. His acquaint- 
ance \is or lies'\ with the Lord Cavendishes, he barely knows the 
young Duke and Duchess ^ He will be proud to shew that 
he can do it ; but he will hardly try, if he suspects any danger of 
refusal. 

You will become such a gadder, that you will not care a penny 
for me. However, you are wise in wishing to know what life is 
made of; to try what are the pleasures which are so eagerly 
sought, and so dearly purchased. We must know pleasure 
before we can rationally despise it. And it is not desirable that 
when you are, with matronal authority, talking down juvenile 
hopes and maiden passions, your hearers should tell you, like 
Miss P , * You never saw difeteJ 

That you may see this show I have written, because I am, 

Madam, 

Your most humble servant, 

Sam : Johnson. 

610. 

To THE Reverend Dr. Taylor^. 

Dear Sir, 

I am required by Mrs. Thrale to solicite you to exert your 



celebrated Irish patriot. Dr. Lucas. 
[IJfe,\, 311.] He is the author of 
one play, printed in a volume of 
miscellanies. It is entitled The Earl 
of Somerset^ 1780/ He was perhaps 
the dramatic writer of whom John- 
son said : — * I never did the man an 
injury ; but he would persist in read- 
ing: his tragedy to me.* Gentlemaiis 
Magasine, 1791, p. 500. 



* Piozsi Letters^ i. 347. 

This letter is explained by the one 
that follows. 

■ William, fifth Duke of Devon- 
shire, bom 1748; succeeded, 1764; 
married 1774, Georgiana, daughter 
of Earl Spencer. The Lord Caven- 
dishes were the Duke's uncles. 

^ First published in Notes and 
Queries^ 6th S., v. 423. 

. interest, 



Aetot. 67.] 



To the Reverend Dr. Taylor. 



II 



interest, that she may have a ticket of admission to the 
entertainment at Devonshire house". Do for her what you 
can. 

I continue to have very troublesome and tedious nights, 
which I do not perceive any change of place to make better 
or worse. This is indeed at present my chief malady, but this 
is very heavy. 

My thoughts were to have been in Staffordshire before now. 
But who does what he designs ? My purpose is still to spend 
part of the Summer amongst you; and of that hope I have no 
particular reason to fear the disappointment. 

Poor Dod was sentenced last week. It is a thing almost 
without example for a Clergyman of his rank to stand at the bar 
for a capital breach of morality. I am afraid he will suffer. The 
clergy seem not to be his friends. The populace that was 
extremely clamorous against him, begins to pity him. The 
time that was gained by an objection which was never con- 
sidered as having any force, was of great use, as it allowed the 
publick resentment to cool ^ To spare his life, and his life is all 
that ought to be spared, would be now rather popular than 
offensive. How little he thought six months ago of being what 

he now is. 

I am. Sir, &c., 

Sam : Johnson. 

May 19, 1777. 

620. 

To THE Right Hon. Charles Jenkinson. 
[Lx>ndon, June 20, 1777]. Published in the Life^ iii. 145. 



* There is a print of Devonshire 
House in Piccadilly as it was in 1761, 
in Dodsleys London and its Envi- 
rons^ ii. 225. 

'Dr. Dodd, on February 22, had 
been found guilty of forging a bond 
for ^4200 in the name of the young 
Earl of Chesterfield, and had been 
sentenced to death. On April 18, 
eleven of the twelve Judges (the Lord 
Chief Justice being absent) decided 
that the evidence of one of the wit- 
nesses, against which exception had 



been taken, was competent. On 
June 27, Dodd was hanged at 
Tyburn. Annual Register ^ 1777, i. 
168, 177,187, 232. Horace Walpole 
wrote two days after his execution : — 
* Are you not glad, Madam, there is 
an end of talking of poor Dr. Dodd ? 
I felt excessively for him, without 
a good opinion, for between the law 
and his friends he suffered a thousand 
deaths.' Letters^ vi. 449. See Ufe^ 
iii. 119-122, 139-148. 

To 



1 2 To Mrs, BoswelL [a.d. 1777. 

621. 

To THE Reverend Dr. Dodd. 

[London, June 22, 1777]. Published in the Life^ iii. 145. 

622. 

To James Boswell. 
[London], June 24, 1777. Published in the Life^ iii. 124. 

623. 

To the Reverend Dr. Dodd. 
[London], June 26, 1777. Published in the Life^ iii. 147. 

624. 

To James Boswell. 
[London], June 28, 1777. Published in the Lifty iii. 120. 

626. 

To Bennet Langton. 
[London], June 29, 1777. Published in the Life^ iii. 124. 

626. 

To W, Sharp, Junior. 

Bolt-court, July 7, 1777. Published in the Lifty iii. 126, where it is 
wrongly stated to be addressed to Edward Dilly. 

627. 

To THE Reverend Dr. Vyse '. 
[London], July 9, 1777. Published in the Life, iii. 125. 

628. 

To James Boswell. 
[London], July 22, 1777. Published in the lAfe^ iii. 127. 

620. 

To Mrs. Boswell. 

[London], July 22, 1777. Published in the Life, iii. 129. 

To 



AAtat. 67.] 



To the Reverend Dr. Farmer, 



13 



530. 

To THE Reverend Dr. Farmer '. 



Sir, 



The booksellers of London have undertaken a kind of body 

of English poetry, excluding generally the dramas, and I have 

undertaken to put before each authour's works a sketch of his life, 

and a character of his writings. Of some, however, I know very 

little, and am afraid I shall not easily supply my deficiencies. 

Be pleased to inform me whether among Mr. Baker's ' manuscripts, 

or anywhere else at Cambridge, any materials are to be found. 

If any such collection can be gleaned, I doubt not of your 

willingness to direct our search, and will tell the booksellers to 

employ a transcriber. If you think my inspection necessary, 

I will come down ; for who that has once experienced the civilities 

of Cambridge would not snatch the opportunity of another 

visit ^? 

I am. Sir, 

Your most humble servant, 

Sam : Johnson. 

Bolt-court, Fleet-street, July 22, 1777. 
To Dr. Farmer, Emanuel Coll., Cambridge. 



' First published in the Gentle- 
man's Magasine, 1835, part i. page 

47- 

Johnson recorded in his Diary this 
year : * March 29, Easter Eve. I 
treated with booksellers on a bar- 
gain, but the time was not long.* 
Pr.and Med,j p. 155. On April 24, 
Boswell wrote to ask 'about this 
edition of " The English Poets, with 
a Preface, biographical and critical, 
to each Authour, by Samuel John- 
son, LL.D." which I see advertised.' 
ZJfe, iii. 108. 

' Thomas Baker (1656- 1740), a 
non-juror, who on the accession of 
George I was deprived of his fellow- 
ship at St. John's College, Cam- 
bridge, for refusing to take the 
abjuration-oath. Horace Walpole, 



writing two months after the date of 
Johnson's letter, and offering to write 
the non-juror's Life, says : — * When 
martyrs are as sensible as Mr. Baker, 
I doubt my own understanding more 
than his. I know I have not his 
virtues, but should delight in doing 
justice to them.' Letters, vi. 488. 
Baker had collected a great mass of 
materials for a work which should do 
for Cambridge what Anthony Wood 
had done for Oxford. They fill 
forty-two folio volumes. * An index 
to the whole series was published in 
1848, and a " Catalogue " of the con- 
tents of the Cambridge volumes in 
1867.' ^Ict, of Nat, Biog,, iii. 18. 

^ Johnson had paid a short visit to 
Cambridge in 1765, when he was 
promised, he said, ' an habitation in 

To 



14 



To Henry Thrale. 



[A.D. 1777. 



631. 

To THE Reverend Dr. VYSE^ 

July 22, 1777. 

If any notice should be taken of the recommendation which 
I took the liberty of sending you, it will be necessary to know 
that Mr. De Groot is to be found at No. 8, in Pye-street, West- 
minster. This information, when I wrote, I could not give you ; 
and being going soon to Lichfield, think it necessary to be left 
behind me. More I will not say. You will want no persuasion 
to succour the nephew of Grotius. 

I am, Sir, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 



532. 

To Henry Thrale ^ 

Dear Sir, [Oxford], July 31, 1777. 

I came hither on Monday, and find every thing much as I 

expected. I shall not stay long, but if you send any letters to me 

on Saturday, to University College, I shall receive them. Please 

to make my compliments to mistress and Queeney. I have 



Emanuel College,' of which Dr. 
Farmer was Master. Life, i. 487, 
517. He did not, I believe, visit the 
University a second time. See Ltfe^ 
iii. 427, for another Letter asking 
Farmer for information about Am- 
brose Philips, Broome and Gray. 

* First published in Malone's 
edition of BoswelL 

Dr. Vyse was Rector of Lambeth 
(see anie^ i. 148, n, 3, for his father). 
Johnson on July 9 had 'requested 
his assistance in recommending an 
old friend to the Archbishop, as 
Governor of the Charter-house. His 
name is De Groot ; he was bom at 
Gloucester ; I have known him many 
years. He has all the common claims 
to charity, being old, poor, and infirm, 
in a great degree. He has likewise 
another claim, to which no scholar 



can refuse attention ; he is by several 
descents the nephew of Hugo Grotius ; 
of him, from whom perhaps every 
man of learning has learnt something. 
Let it not be said that in any lettered 
country a nephew of Grotius asked a 
charity and was refused.' The appli- 
cation was successful. Life^ iii. 125. 
* In the Charter-house are main- 
tained eighty pensioners, who, accord- 
ing to the institution, are gentlemen, 
merchants, or soldiers, who are fallen 
into misfortunes. These are provided 
with handsome apartments, and all 
the necessaries of life except clothes ; 
instead of which each of them is 
allowed a gown and j[/i per annum,* 
Dodsley's Environs of London^ ii. 98. 

' Piozzi Letters^ i. 348. 

Johnson had arrived at Oxford on 
Monday, July 28. 

picked 



AAtet. 67.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



15 



picked up some little information for my Lives at the library. 

I know not whether I shall go forward without some regret. I 

cannot break my promise to Boswell and the rest ' ; but I have 

a good mind to come back again. 

I am, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

633. 

To Mrs. Thrale*. 
Dear Madam, [Oxford], August 4, 1777. 

I did not mean to express much discontent nor any ill- 
liumour in my letter. When I went away I knew that I went 
partly because I had talked of going, and because I was a little 
restless. I have been searching the library for materials for my 
Xives, and a little I have got 

Things have not gone quite well with poor Gwynne. His 
"work was finished so ill that he has been condemned to pay 
three hundred pounds for damages, and the sentence is considered 
as very mild. He has however not lost his friends, and is still 
in the best houses, and at the best tables ^ 

I shall enquire about the harvest when I come into a region 



' He had written to Boswell on 
-May 3 : — * My health is very bad, and 
my nights are very unquiet. What 
can I do to mend them ? I have 
for this summer nothing better in 
prospect than a journey into Stafford- 
shire and Derbyshire, perhaps with 
Oxford and Birmingham in my way.* 
Life, iii. 109. Boswell proposed that 
they should meet at Carlisle, a city 
which Johnson wished to see (ib, p. 
118) ; but Johnson was loath to go 
so far north (ib, p. 123). On July 22 
he wrote : — * I shall go to Ashbourne, 
and propose to make Dr. Taylor in- 
vite you' {ib, p. 127). 

• Piozzi Letters, i. 349. 

' I have searched in vain in the 
records of the City of Oxford for an 
account of this sentence. I had 
hoped in the set o{ JacksotC s Oxford 
Jaurnalm the Bodleian to find a report 



of the action at law in which Gwynn 
was condemned, but the number is 
missing in which in all likelihood a 
report was given of the Summer 
Assize. In 1 771 John Gwynn was 
appointed Surveyor to the new Board 
of Commissioners of the Oxford 
Paving Act, at a salary of ;^i5o a 
year. He directed the demolition of 
the old gates, &c. The new Mag- 
dalen Bridge was designed by him, 
the Market and the Workhouse. 
Owen, in John Chambers's Bio- 
graphicallllustrations of Worcester- 
shire, ed. 1820, p. 504, described him 
from personal recollection as * lively, 
quick and sarcastic, of quaint ap- 
pearance and odd manners.' He 
built moreover bridges at Worcester 
and Shrewsbury. St^post, Letter of 
January 30, 1778. 

where 



i6 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A.D. 1777. 



where any thing necessary to life is understood'. I do not 
believe that there is yet any great harm, if the weather should 
now mend. Reaping time will only be a little later than is 
usual. 

Dr. Wetherell is abroad, I think at London ; Mr. Coulson is 
here, and well'. Every body that knows you, enquires after 
you. ' 

Bosweirs project is disconcerted, by a visit from a relation of 
Yorkshire, whom he mentions as the head of his clan^ Boszy, 
you know, makes a huge bustle about all his own motions, and 
all mine. I have inclosed a letter to pacify him, and reconcile 
him to the uncertainties of human life. 

I believe it was after I left your house, that I received a pot of 
orange marmalade from Mrs. Boswell. We have now, I hope, 
made it up. I have not opened my pot^. 

I have determined to leave Oxford to-morrow ^, and on Thurs- 
day hope to see Lichfield, where I mean to rest till Dr. Taylor 
fetches me to Ashbourne, and there I am likely enough to stay 
till you bid me come back to London. 

I am, &c., 

Sam : Johnson. 

534. 

To James Boswell. 
Oxford, August 4, 1777. Published in the Life, iii. 130. 



' Johnson in a letter to the Master 
of University College speaks of * our 
scholastick ignorance of mankind.' 
Life, ii. 425. It had been complained 
of before his time, as is shown by the 
following passage in The Guardian, 
No. X, March 23, 1 712-13: — *I am 
very glad to hear, being myself a 
Fellow of Lincoln College, that there 
is at last in one of our Universities 
arisen a happy genius for little things. 
It is extremely to be lamented, that 
hitherto we come from the college as 
unable to put on our own clothes as 
we do frt>m nurse.' 

' For Dr. WethercU and Mr. 



Coulson see ante, i. 313, 323. 

^ Squire Godfrey Bosville, of Gun- 
thwait, * my Yorkshire chief,* as Bos- 
well calls him. Life, ii. 169 ; iii. 439. 
For Johnson's pacifying letter see ib. 
iii. 130. 

* Johnson's acknowledg^nent of 
the pot does not seem strictly accu- 
rate. He wrote to Mrs. Boswell on 
July 22 : * Though I am well enough 
pleased with the taste of sweetmeats, 
very little of the pleasure which I re- 
ceived at the arrival of your jar of 
marmalade arose from eating it.' Ib, 
iii. 129. 



Tuesday, August 5. 



To 



Aetot. 67.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



17 



636. 

To Mrs. Thrale*. 

Dear Madam, Lichfield, August 7, 1777. 

On Tuesday I left Oxford, and came to Birmingham. Mr. 
Hector is well ; Mrs. Careless ' was not at home. Yesterday 
I came hither. Mrs. Porter is well. Mrs. Aston ^ to whom I 
walked before I sat down, is very ill, but better. Whether she 
will recover I know not. If she dies I have a great loss. Mr. 
Green* is well, and Mrs. Adey^ more I have not yet seen. At 
Birmingham I heard of the death of an old friend^ and at Lich- 
field of the death of another^ Anni pradantur euntes''. One 
was a little older, the other a little younger than myself. 

But amidst these privations the present must still be thought 
on, we must act as if we were to live. My barber, a man not 
unintelligent, speaks magnificently of the harvest ; and Frank, 
whom I ordered to make his observations, noted fields of very 
fine shew as we passed along. 

Lucy thinks nothing of my prologue for Kelly, and says she 
has always disowned it®. I have not let her know my trans- 
actions with Dr. Dodd'. She says, she takes Miss's corre- 
spondence very kindly. 

I am, &c., 

Sam : Johnson. 

ministry, in one of the newspapers, it 
fell a sacrifice to popular fury, and in 
the playhouse phrase, was damnetL 
By the generosity of Mr. Harris, the 
proprietor of Covent Garden theatre, 
it was now exhibited for one night, for 
the benefit of the author's widow and 
children.' Z^, iii. 113. * Lucy* is 
his step- daughter. Miss, or as she 
was now called, Mrs. Porter. 

^ Johnson wrote petitions and 
letters for Dodd, as well as his speech 
when sentence of death was about to 
be pronounced, and The Convicfs 
Address to his unhappy Brethren, 
lb, iii. 121, 141. In the British 
Museum (Add. MSS. 24419), in a 

To 



5 

6 
7 



Piozzi Letters^ i« 35i« 
Hector's sister. Ante^ i. 164. 
Ante^ ii. 3. 
Ante^ i. 161. 

Ante^ i. 33i« 
Posty p. 20. 

' Singula de nobis anni pra&dantur 
euntes.' 

Horace. 2 Epis, ii. 55. 
' Years following years steal 
something every day.' 

Pope. Imitations^ 1. 72. 
" * He wrote a Prologue which was 
spoken before A Word to the IVise, 
SL comedy by Mr. Hugh Kelly which 
had been brought upon the stage in 
1770 ; but Kelly being a writer for 

VOL. II. -0.' C 



i8 



To Mrs. Tkrale. 



IAJ>. 1777. 



536. 



To Mrs. Thrale '. 

Dear Madam, Lichfield, August 9, 1777. 

No great matter has happened since I wrote, but this place 
grows more and more barren of entertainment. Two whom I 
hoped to have seen are dead. I think that I am much more 
unwieldy and inert than when I was here last ; my nights are 
very tedious. But a light heart, &c. ' 

Lucy said, * When I read Dr. Dodd's sermon to the prisoners 
I said. Dr. Johnson could not make a better.' 

One of Lucy's maids is dreadfully tormented by the taenia, or 
long-worm. She has taken many medicines without eflTect, and 



Letter dated Rectory, Great Warley, 
Essex, December 18, 1834, from 
Hastings Robinson, B.D., Late 
Fellow and Tutor of St. John's 
College, Cambridge, to John Murray 
of Albemarle Street, is the following 
anecdote ' communicated to me many 
years since,* says the writer, * by one 
of the party, and taken down in writ- 
ing at the time ' : — * Miss Seward, 
her father, the Rev. R. G. Robinson of 
Lichfield, and Dr. Johnson were pass- 
ing the day at the Palace at Lichfield, 
of which Mr. Seward was the oc- 
cupier. The conversation turned 
upon Dr. Dodd, who had been 
recently executed. It proceeded as 
follows : — 

*Miss Seward. — "I think. Dr. 
Johnson, you applied to Mr. Jenkin- 
8on in his behalf" 

* Dr. Johnson. — " Why yes. 
Madam. I knew it was a man 
having no interest writing to a man 
who had no interest ; but I thought 
with myself, when Dr. Dodd comes 
to the place of execution he may say, 
*Had Dr. Johnson written in my be- 
half, I had not been here,' and (with 
great emphasis) I could not bear the 
thought." 



* Miss Seward.—" But, Dr. John- 
son, would you have pardoned Dr. 
Dodd?" 

* Dr. Johnson.—** Madam, had I 
been placed at the head of the legis- 
lature, I should certainly have signed 
his death-warrant ; though no law 
either human or divine forbids our 
deprecating punishment either for 
ourselves or others.*' * 

Johnson's letter to Jenkinson 
(afterwards Earl of Liverpool) is in 
the Life^ iii. 145. It is most improb- 
able that he spoke of him as * a man 
who had no interest.' He was at 
this time Secretary at War, and justly 
suspected for his private influence 
with the King. Burke, on May 14 of 
this year, attacked him in the House 
* as the real Minister.' ParL Hist.^ 
xix. 251. 

' Piozzi Letters^ i« 352. 
' * Had she been light, like you, 
Of such a merry, nimble, stir- 
ring spirit. 
She might ha' been a grandam 

ere she died ; 
And so may you : for a light 

heart lives long.' 
Lov^s Labour* s Lost^ Act v. 



sc. 2. 



it 



Aetot. 67.] 7^ Mrs. ThraU. 19 




it is much wished that she could have the Knightsbridge powder. 
I will pay for it, if you, dear Madam, will be so kind as to pro- 
cure it, and send it with directions. Can it be franked * ? If it 
cannot, the best way will be to unite it with something of greater 
bulk. I have promised Lucy to give her Cook's last voyage, for 
she loves prints ; but the last voyage cannot be well understood 
without some knowledge of the former. If you will lend us 
Hawkesworth's books, they shall be carefully returned **. If you 
will do this for us, the powders may be easily put up with the 
books. 

Please to make my compliments to Master ^ and to Queeney. 

I am, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

687. 

To Mrs. Thrale^ 

Dear Madam, Lichfield, August 13, 1777. 

Such tattle as filled your last sweet letter prevents one great 
inconvenience of absence, that of returning home a stranger and 
an enquirer. The variations of life consist of little things. 
Important innovations are soon heard, and easily understood. 
Men that meet to talk of physicks or metaphysicks, or law or 
history, may be immediately acquainted. We look at each other 
in silence, only for want of petty talk upon slight occurrences^. 
Continue therefore to write all that you would say. 

' The weight of a packet franked under the title of A Voyage towards 

by a Member of Parliament could not the South Pole^ and round the World 

at this time exceed two ounces. It in the years 1772-5. 

was afterwards reduced to one ounce. ^ Mr. Thrale. 

Official franks, before the abolition of * Piozzi Letters^ i. 354. 

the system, ' had been used to free a ^ Johnson never for one moment 

great coat, a bundle of baby-linen, felt as Wordsworth did about ' per- 

and a piano-forte.' Letters of Hume sonal talk.* He would never have 

to Strahan, p. 188, ;i. 11. said : — 

• Cook's * former voyage ' was in * Better than such discourse doth 

the years 1 768-1 771. The account silence long, 

of it is in volume ii. of Hawkes worth's Long, barren silence square with 

Voyages in the Southern Hemisphere^ my desire.' 

published in 1773 in 3 vols. His See Life^ ii. 359, where he says : — 

• last voyage' was published in 1777, 'That is the happiest conversation 

C 2 You 



20 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A.D. 1777. 



You have Lord Westcote * and every body when I am away, 
and you go to Mr. Cator's', and you are so happy. 

Miss Turton and Harry Jackson are dead ^ Mrs. Aston is, I 
am afraid^ in great danger. Mr. Green, Mr. Garrick^ and Mr. 
Newton^ are all well. I have been very faint and breathless 
since I came hither, but fancy myself better this day. I hope 
Master's walk will be finished when I come back, and I shall 
perambulate it very often. 

There seems to be in this country scarcely any fruit, there 
never indeed was much^ ; but great things have been said of the 
harvest, and the only fear is of the weather. It rains here almost 
every day. 

I dined yesterday with the corporation, and talked against a 



where there is no competition, no 
vanity, but a cairn quiet interchange 
of sentiments.' * Those persons,' 
vmtes Burke, 'who creep into the 
hearts of most people, who are 
chosen as the companions of their 
softer hours, and their reliefs from 
care and anxiety, are never persons 
of shining qualities nor strong virtues.' 
On the Sublime and Beautiful^ ed. 
1759, p. 206. 

' Lord Westcote was the Mr. 
Lyttelton who invited Johnson to 
Hagley in 1771 (ante^ i. 177), and 
whom he visited with the Thrales in 
1774, when * they were disappointed 
of the respect and kindness that they 
expected.' Ufe^ v. 456. Baretti in 
a note on Piozzi Letters^ i. 42, says 
that 'Johnson was never pleased a 
moment with Lord Westcote's con- 
versation, which indeed is dull 
enough.' 

» AntCy i. 355. 

^ Miss Turton was, 1 suppose, the 
friend whose death Johnson heard 
of at Birmingham, and Harry Jack- 
son the friend whose death he heard 
of at Lichfield. Ante^ ii, 17. For 
Jackson see ante^ i. 378. 

* Peter Garrick, the actor's eldest 



brother. The two brothers for a short 
time had been partners in the wine 
trade in Durham Yard in the Strand. 
' Peter was calm, sedate, and metho- 
dical ; David was gay, volatile and 
impetuous.' Davies's Ufe of Gar- 
rick J i. 16. Boswell describes Peter 
Garrick as 'strongly resembling 
David in countenance and voice, but 
of more sedate and placid manners.' 
Ufe^ ii. 311, 462. 

^ The Thrales and Johnson had 
called on Mr. Newton in July, 1774. 
lb, V. 428. He was perhaps related 
to Thomas Newton, Bishop of Bristol, 
who was a Lichfield man. lb, iv. 
285. 

* * Boswell.—" Is not a good 
garden a very common thing in Eng- 
land, Sir?" Johnson: '*Not so 
common, Sir, as you imagine. In 
Lincolnshire there is hardly an 
orchard ; in Staffordshire very little 
fruit"' lb. iv. 205. *The greater 
part of the apples, and even of the 
onions, consumed in Great Britain, 
were in the last century [the seven- 
teenth] imported from Flanders.' 
Wealth of Nations^ ed. 181 1, i. 105. 
See ib, p. 210. 

workhouse 



Aetot. 67.] 



To Mrs, Thrale. 



21 



workhouse' which they have in contemplation^ — there's the word 
now. I do not know that they minded me, for they said nothing 
to me. 

I have had so little inclination to motion that I have always 
gone the shortest way to Stowhill, and hardly any where else, so 
that I can tell you nothing new of Green's museum, but I design 
to visit him, and all friends. 

I hope for a letter to-morrow, for you must not forget that 
I am, Madam, 

Your most humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 

P.S. Why cannot Queeney write? 

688. 

To Mrs. Thrale I 

Dear Madam, Lichfield, August 23, 1777. 

At Lichfield ? Yes ; but not well. I have been trying a 
great experiment with ipecacuanha, which Akensyde* had 



' Johnson defines workhouse as ' a 
place where idlers and vagabonds are 
condemned to labour.' Hutton in 
his History of Derby^ published in 
1 791 (p. 59), says that the design of 
workhouses, all of which had been 
established within memory, ' was an 
asylum for distress and a cure for the 
beggar.' As they are managed * they 
are the nurseries of idleness, the 
corrupters of manners, the slaughter- 
houses of infants, and the plagues of 
old age.' In them perhaps not one 
infant in ten arrives at maturity. The 
old and weak 'are brow-beaten by 
the governor, and hunted by the 
rude.' Hutton had been an active 
Overseer of the Poor, and so spoke 
with authority. In G. M. Berkeley's 
Poems y published in 1797, Introduc- 
tion, p. 3 10, it is stated that ' most well- 
regulated Bridewells are Paradises 
compared to the Oxford Work- 
house. Nothing out of the infernal 



regions can be worse or worse con- 
ducted.' 

' Landor in his Imaginary Con- 
verscUions: Johnson and Home Tooke^ 
makes Tooke say : — * We do many 
things now which we never thought 
of doing formerly. We contemplate 
going to a ball and dancing a 
fandango.' Landor's Works, ed. 
1876, iv. 249. To contemplate John- 
son defines : — * To muse, to think 
studiously with long attention.' 

^ P 10221 Letters y i. 356. 

^ Mark Akenside, the poet and 
physician. He used to frequent 
Tom's Coffee-house in Devereux 
Court, close to Johnson's haunts, 
where no doubt the two men often 
met. One evening *Saxby of the 
Custom House' attacked the pro- 
fession of physic, which Akenside 
defended. * Doctor,' said Saxby, 
' after all you have said, my opinion 
of the profession of physic is this : 

inclined 



22 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A.D. 1777. 



inclined me to consider as a remedy for all constrictions of the 
breath. Lawrence* indeed told me that he did not credit him, 
and no credit can I find him to deserve. One night I thought 
myself the better for it, but there is no certainty. On Wednes- 
day night I took ten grains; the night was restless. On 
Thursday morning I took ten grains ; the night again was rest- 
less. On Friday night I took twenty grains, which Akensyde 
mentions as the utmost that on these occasions he has ventured 
to give ; the night was perhaps rather worse. I shall therefore 
take truce with ipecacuanha. Tell me, if you can, what I shall 
do next. 

Mr. Thrale's heart may be at rest. It is not fine Mrs. Anne 
that has been caught by the taenia", but Mrs. Anne tumbled 
down stairs last night, and bruised her face. Both maid and 
mistress are very grateful to you for the kindness with which you 
procured the powders, and directed their use. They have not 
yet been tried. It has been washing week ; and I suppose every 
body shrinks a little from such rough remedies, of which at last 
the success is doubtful. However it will, I think, be tried in all 
its formalities. 

My master may plant and dig till his pond is an ocean, if he 
can find water, and his parterre a down ^. I have no doubt of a 
most abundant harvest ; and it is said that the produce of barley 
is particularly great. We are not far from the great year of a 
hundred thousand barrels, which, if three shillings be gained 



The ancients endeavoured to make 
it a science, and . failed ; and the 
modems to make it a trade, and have 
succeeded.' Hawkins's Johnson, pp. 
244-6. In my edition of the U/e, iii. 
22, n, 4, I assign by mistake this 
sarcasm to Ballow, a lawyer. Burton 
in the Anatomy of Melancholy y ed. 
1660, p. 373, quotes Mat. Riccius as 
saying of the physic in China there 
is * no science, no school, no art, no 
degree, but like a trade every man in 
private is instructed of his master.' 
Dryden in his Prologue to the Uni- 
versity of Oxford, says : — 



*So poetry, which is in Oxford 

made 
An art, in London only is a 

trade.' 
Dryden's Poems, Aldine ed. iii. 89. 
' Ante, i. 47, «. 2. 
■ Ante, ii. 18. 

' Johnson defines parterre as *a 
level division of ground that for the 
most part faces the south and best 
front of an house, and is generally 
furnished with greens and flowers, 
&c.* Greens he does not define in 
its modern sense as a vegetable food, 
but as ' leaves ; branches ; wreaths.' 

upon 



▲etot. 67.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



23 



upon each barrel, will bring us fifteen thousand pounds a-year. 
• • • • • never pretended to more than thirty pounds a-day, 
which is not eleven thousand a-year. But suppose we shall get 
but two shillings a barrel, that is ten thousand a-year. I hope 
we still have the advantage. Would you for the other thousand 
have my master such a man as * ? 

I showed dear Queeney*s letter to Mrs. Aston and Mrs. Porter, 
they both took her remembrance of them very kindly. 

It was well done by Mr. Brooke to send for you. His house is 
one of my favourite places. His water is very commodious, and 
the whole place has the true old appearance of a little country 
town*. I hope Miss goes, for she takes notice. 



^ Mrs. Piozzi in a marginal note 
fills up the gap with the name of 
Whitbread, and adds : — ' He asked 
me to marry him after Mr. Thrale's 
death, when his fortune was much 
increased ; on my refusal (he had 
three children) Lady Mary Com- 
wallis accepted his hand.' Hay ward's 
Piozzi^ i. 309. Horace Walpole in 
1 781 speaks of * Mr. Whitbread, the 
brewer, and his insolent wealth.' 
Letters^ vii. 496. Johnson, post^ 
Letter of October 24, 1778, speaks of 
* the ambition of out-brewing Whit- 
bread * ; and Letter of November 16, 
1779, of * Mr. Thrale's desire of being 
the first brewer.* See ante^ i. 194, 
n, I, for Johnson's identification of 
himself with the Thrales in his use 
of we. In 1759-60 Whitbread was 
second and Thrale eighth among the 
brewers, the amount of barrels brewed 
by each being as follows : — 
Whitbread . . , 63,400 
Thrale . . , . 3^^,700 
Annual Register^ 1760, i. 174. In 
1786-7 Whitbread was first and 
Thrale third, as is shown in Pennant's 
London^ ed. 1790, p. 279 : — 

Barrels. 
Whitbread, Samuel . 150,280 
Calvert, Felix . . 131,043 
Thrale, Hester . . 105,559 



The Annual Register 


for 1797, ii. 


37, shows that Thrale's 


Brewery is 


second : — 




1795-6. 






Barrels. 


Whitbread . 


202,000 


Thrale 


137,810 


1796-7. 




Whitbread . 


192,740 


Thrale 


141,590 



Calvert had fallen to the fifth place. 
Though Mrs. Thrale sold her brewery 
to Messrs. Barclay and Perkins in 
1 781 {Lt/e^ iv. 132), the style of the 
firm was not, it seems, changed 
so late as 1797. 

' Mr. Francis Brooke, *an eminent 
attomey-at-law,' lived near the Abbey 
at Town Mailing or West Mailing, a 
small country town on the road 
between Wrotham and Maidstone. 
Hasted's History of Kent, ed. 1782, 
ii. 219. Johnson, as his Diary shows, 
spent his birthday there in 1768. Pr, 
and Med.y p. 81. Mrs. Thrale wrote 
to him on September 18, 1777 • — 
* Come, here is news of Town-mailing 
— the quiet old-fashioned place in 
Kent, that you like so because it was 
agreeable to your own notions of a 
rural life ; I believe we were the first 
people, except the master of it, who 
had for many years taken delight in 

The 



24 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A.D. 1777. 



The races are next week. People seem to be weary 
of them, for many go out of town I suppose to escape the 
cost of entertaining company. Dr. Taylor will probably 
come, and probably take me away ; and I shall leave Mrs. 
Aston. 

Do not you lose, nor let Master lose, the kindness that 
you have for me. Nobody will ever love you both better 
than, dear Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

689. 

To Mrs. Thrale ». 

Dear Madam, Lichfield, [Wednesday], August 27, 1777. 

Our correspondence is not so vigorous as it used to be ; 
but now you know the people at Lichfield, it is vain to describe 
them, and as no revolutions have happened, there is nothing to 
be said about them. We have a new Dean, whose name is 
Proby ; he has the manners of a gentleman, and some spirit 
of discipline, which brings the cathedral into better method. 
He has a lady that talks about Mrs. Montague and Mrs. 
Carter *. 



the old coach without springs, the 
two roasted ducks in one dish, the 
fortified flower garden, and fir trees 
cut in figures. — ^A spirit of innovation 
has however reached even these at 
last. — The roads are mended ; no 
more narrow shaded lanes, but clear 
open turnpike trotting. A yew hedge, 
or an eugh hedge if you will [see 
ante, i. 286, n, 5], newly cut down 
too by his nephew's desire. Ah 
those nephews ! And a wall pulled 
away, which bore incomparable fruit 
— to call in the country — is the 
phrase. Mr. Thrale is wicked enough 
to urge on these rough reformers ; 
how it will end I know not. For 
your comfort, the square canals still 
drop into one another; and the 



chocolate is still made in the room 
by a maid, who curtsies as she 
presents every cup. Dear old Daddy 
Brooke looks well and even hand- 
some at eighty-one years old ; while 
I saw his sister, who is ninety-four 
years old, and calls him Frankey^ eat 
more venison at a sitting than Mr. 
Thrale.' Piozzi Letters, \,y;6. There 
was a fashion at this time, not only 
to pull away garden walls, but to cut 
down fine avenues, so as to ccUl in 
the country — to give a wider view, 
that is to say. See U/Cy v. 439. 

* Piozzi Letters, i. 359. 

' For the old Dean see ante, 
i. 300. 

The new Dean's lady was, it seems, 
a somewhat haughty lady. I heard 

On 



Aetat. 67.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



25 



On next Saturday I go to Ashbourne, and thither must my 
letters be sent, if you are pleased ever to write to me. 

When I came hither I could hardly walk, but I have got better 
breath, and more agility. I intend to perambulate Master's 
dominions * every day at least once. But I have miserable, dis- 
tressful, tedious nights ; do you think they will mend at Bright- 
helmstone ? 

When I come to Ashbourne I will send my dear Queeney an 
account how I find things, for I hope she takes an interest in 
Dr. Taylor's prosperity. 

This is race week ; but Mrs. Aston, Mrs. Porter, and myself 
have no part in the course, or at the ball. We all sit at home, 
and perhaps pretend to wonder that others go, though I cannot 
charge any of us with much of that folly '. Mrs. Gastrel, who 
wraps her head in a towel, is very angfry at the present mode of 
dress and feathers ^. 

But amidst all these little things, there is one great thing. 
The harvest is abundant, and the weather a la merveille *. No 
season ever was finer. Barley, malt, beer, and money. There 
is the series of ideas. The deep logicians call it a sorites, I 
hope my master will no longer endure the reproach of not 
keeping me a horse ^. 

The puppies played us a vile trick when they tore my letter, 
but I hope my loss will be repaired to-morrow. You are in the 
way of business and intelligence, and have something to write. 



at Lichfield the following verse 
quoted from some lines written 
against her : — 

'She would far sooner from the 
steeple fling her, 

Than let a tradesman touch her 
highborn finger.' 

Her talk about Mrs. Montagu 
and the learned Mrs. Carter shows 
that she was somewhat of a Blue- 
stocking. 

' Mr. Thrale's park at Streatham. 

■ * Sir,' said Johnson, * I am a 
great friend to public amusements ; 
for they keep people from vice,' 
Ufe^ ii. 169. 



^ Ante^ i. 258. Mrs. Gastrell was 
Mrs. Aston's sister. 

* He ought to have said i mer- 
veille. The earlier part of the 
summer had been very wet. Ante^ 
ii. 16. Horace Walpole wrote on 
August 4 : — * One would think the 
elements this summer came from 
Scotland.' But on September 29 he 
wrote : — * I did not use to love 
September, with all its betweenity of 
parched days and cold long evenings, 
but this has been all lustre and 
verdancy.* Letters^ vi. 464, 489. 

5 For Johnson's hunting see ante^ 
i. 349i n. 4. 

I am 



26 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[AD. 1777. 



I am here in unactive obscurity, and have little other pleasure 
than to perceive that the poor languishing lady * is glad to see 
me. I hope, dearest Lady, you will be glad to see me too ; and 
that it will be long before disease lays hold upon you. 

I am, dear Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

640. 

To James Boswelu 
[Ashbourne], August 30, 1777. Published in the Lifiy iii. 131. 

641. 

To James Boswell. 

Ashbourne, September i, 1777. Published in the Ufe^ iii. 132. 

642. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 

Dearest Lady, [Ashbourne], Sept. 6, 1777. 

It is true that I have loitered, and what is worse, loitered 
with very little pleasure. The time has run away, as most time 
runs, without account, without use, and without memorial. But 
to say this of a few weeks, though not pleasing, might be borne, 
but what ought to be the regret of him who, in a few days, will 
have so nearly the same to say of sixty-eight years ? But com- 
plaint is vain. 

If you have nothing to say from the neighbourhood of the 
metropolis, what can occur to me in little cities and petty towns ; 
in places which we have both seen, and of which no description 
is wanted? I have left part of the company with which you 
dined here, to come and write this letter; in which I have 
nothing to tell, but that my nights are very tedious. I cannot 
persuade myself to forbear trying something. 

As you have now little to do, I suppose you are pretty dili- 
gent at the Thraliana ^ and a very curious collection posterity 



' Mrs. Aston. ArUe^ ii. 17. 
' Piozzi Letters y i. 361. 



^ * Thraliana is contained in six 
books, of about 300 page seach, and 

will 



Aetot. 67.] To Mrs. Thrale. 27 

will find it. Do not remit the practice of writing down occur- 
rences as they arise, of whatever kind, and be very punctual in 
annexing the dates. Chronology you know is the eye of 
history ; and every man's life is of importance to himself. Do 
not omit painful casualties, or unpleasing passages, they make 
the variegation of existence ; and there are many transactions, 
of which I will not promise with iEneas, et hcBc olint meminisse 
juvabit ^ Yet that remembrance which is not pleasant may be 
useful. There is however an intemperate attention to slight 
circumstances which is to be avoided, lest a great part of life be 
spent in writing the history of the rest ^. Every day perhaps 
has something to be noted, but in a settled and uniform course 
few days can have much. 

Why do I write all this, which I had no thought of when I 
b^un ? The Thraliana drove it all into my head. It deserves 
however an hour's reflection, to consider how, with the least loss 
of time, the loss of what we wish to retain may be prevented. 

Do not neglect to write to me, for when a post comes empty, 
I am really disappointed. 

Boswell, I believe, will meet me here. 

I am, dearest Lady, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

extends over thirty-two years and a it was [in 1861], * deemed it of too 

half. The first entry is in these private and delicate a character to be 

words : — " It is many years since Dr. submitted to strangers.' He supplied 

Johnson advised me to get a little Mr. Hay ward however with informa- 

book and write in it all the little tion extracted from it. Hay ward's 

anecdotes which might come to my Piozziy i. 7, 237. See her Anecdotes^ 

knowledge. .... Mr. Thrale has p. 45, and Life^ iv. 343. Johnson' 

now treated me with a repository, often urges her to * annex the dates ' 

and provided it with the pompous to her letters, but with little effect. 

title of Thraliana, I must endeavour For his advice to keep a Journal see 

to fill it with nonsense, new and old. — ante^ i. 362, n, i. 
15th September, 1776." . . . The ' ^neid^'x. 203:— 

last:— "30th March, 1809. — Every- *An hour will come with pleasure 
thing most dreaded has ensued. ... to relate 

All is over, and my second husband's Your sorrows past as benefits of 
death is the last thing recorded in Fate.* Dryden. 

my first husband's present. — Cruel ' * He again advised me to keep a 

Death ! " ' Mr. Hay ward adds that journal fully and minutely, but not to 

Mr. Salusbury, in whose possession mention such trifles as, that meat 

To 



28 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A.D. 1777. 



548. 

To Mrs. Thrale '. 

Dear Madam, Ashbourne, Sept 8, 1777. 

Surely the same vexatious interruption of our correspond- 
ence happens now that happened once when I was at Oxford *. 
I write often, yet you seem not to have my letters. I charged 
Frank with trusting some other hand to the post-office, this he 
denies ; and indeed I have answers to other letters. 

I came hither on Saturday, August 30th. The books were 
not then come ; but I suppose, according to Davies s letter, they 
came that evening ^ Of the receipt of the powders I wrote 
word, and told that the girl delayed a little while to take them. 
From this place I wrote to Miss last Thursday, and to you last 
Saturday. Nothing has been mentioned by you of which I have 
not taken proper notice, except that I have said nothing of 

^. Many instances there are of the vanity of human 

solicitude, and it is not strange to find another. We were all 
planning out for him some mode of life, and disease was hover- 
ing over him. If he dies, his mother will lose what has engaged 
her care, and incited her vanity. The son and the estate go 
away together. But life occupies us all too much to leave us 
room for any care of others beyond what duty enjoins ; and no 
duty enjoins sorrow or anxiety that is at once troublesome and 
useless. I would readily help the poor lady, but if I cannot do 
her good by assisting her, I shall not disturb myself by lamenting 



was too much or too little done, or 
that the weather was fair or rainy.' 
Life, ii. 358. 

' Pioszi lAtterSy i. 364. 

' Ante^ i 327. 

^ The books were Cook's Voyages, 
Aniey ii. 19. Davies was most 
likely Tom Davies, the bookseller. 
Life^ i. 390. 

* Mrs. Thrale in a note, dated 
September 18, says that she is 
anxious about Queeney, ' whose first 
cousin * * * * is now absolutely dying 



of a consumption.' Piozzi Letters ^ i. 
375. Johnson, post, pp. 29, 34, 38, 
alludes to the same case. Baretti in 
his notes says that Lady Lade, Mr. 
Thrale*s sister {ante, i. 219, «. 3), is 
the mother, and Sir John Lade the 
invalid son. He describes him as 
' a most hopeful gentleman that has 
married a harlot.' See Life, iv.412, 
for an account of him, and for the 
verses which Johnson wrote on his 
coming of age. 

her : 



Aetot. 67.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



29 



her * : yet I suppose his death will be as hard a blow as is com- 
monly felt. Let me know if you hear how he goes on. I go on 
but uneasily. 

I am in hopes of seeing Mr. Boswell, and then he may perhaps 
tell me something to write, for this is but a barren place. Not 

a mouse stirring '. 

I am, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

644. 

To James Boswell. 
Ashbourne, September, 11, 1777. Published in the LifSy iii. 135. 

646. 

To Mrs. Thrale ^ 

Dear Madam, Ashbourne, Sept. 13, 1777. 

Now I write again, having just received your letter dated 
the loth. 

You must not let foolish fancies take hold on your imagina- 
tion. If Queeney grows tall, she is sufficiently bulky, and as 
much out of danger of a consumption as nature allows a young 
maiden to be ^. Of real evils the number is great, of possible 
evils there is no end. • • • • • ^ is really to be pitied. Her 
son in danger ; the estate likely to pass not only from her, but 
to those on whom, I suppose, she would least wish it bestowed, 
and her system of life broken, are very heavy blows. But she 
will at last be rich, and will have much gratification in her power, 
both rational and sensual. 



' ' Talking of our feeling for the 
distresses of others, Johnson said : — 
'* Why, Sir, there is much noise made 
about it, but it is greatly exaggerated. 
No, Sir, we have a certain degree of 
feeling to prompt us to do good: 
more than that, Providence does not 
intend. It would be misery to no 
purpose."' ^if^i ii* 94* See anie^ 
L 141. 

* HamUtf Act i. so. I. 

^ Piozzi Letters^ \, 366. 



^ This must be an answer to one 
of Mrs. Thrale's Letters, dated in her 
Collection five days later^ in which 
she writes : — * Something always 
happens when you go to Lichfield; 
and our sitting down thirteen to table 
yesterday made my fool's nerves 
flutter for Queeney. * ♦ * Mr. 
Murphy said, she had a hectic 
colour.* Piozzi Letters ^ i. 375. 

' Ante^ ii. 28. 

Boswell, 



To Mrs. Aston. [a.d. 1777. 



Boswell, I believe, is coming. He talks of being here to-day. 
I shall be glad to see him. But he shrinks from the Baltick 
expedition, which I think is the best scheme in our power. 
What we shall substitute, I know not. He wants to see Wales, 
but except the woods of Bachycraigh what is there in Wales ? 
What can fill the hunger of ignorance, or quench the thirst of 
curiosity ' ? We may perhaps form some scheme or other, but, 
in the phrase of Hockley in the Hole, it is a pity he has not a 
better bottom '. 

Tell my young mistress that this day's letter is too short, and 
it brings me no news either foreign or domestick. 

I am going to dine with Mr. Dyot, and Frank tells sternly, 
that it is past two o'clock ^ 

I am, dearest Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam : Johnson. 

546. 

To Mrs. Aston *. 
Dear Madam, 

As I left you so much disordered, a fortnight is a long time 

' Boswell had written to Johnson set to soon after two o'clock, and 

on September 9 : — * Let us, by all after four rounds only the Irishman 

means, have another expedition. I was declared victor. The want of 

shrink a little from our scheme of what in the language of boxers is 

going up the Baltick. I am sorry termed bottom on the part of the 

you have already been in Wales ; for combatants disgusted the company 

I wish to see it.' Life^ iii. 134. After exceedingly. The parties fought in 

Johnson had returned from Wales he a hollow, very near the foot of Abber- 

wrote : — * Whales is so little different shaw's Gibbet, who seemed to regard 

from England that it offers nothing the combat with the utmost apathy, 

to the speculation of the traveller.' When the victor had been duly 

lb, ii. 284. Bachycraigh (the name crowned with a wreath of shamrock, 

is spelt in a variety of ways) was the and quaffed a libation to the memory 

property of Mrs. Thrale. Johnson oiBig Ben [Abbershaw, I conjecture] 

visited it in 1774. lb. v. 436. in a pint of Liptrap's best gin, the 

' Hockley in the Hole in Clerken- cavalcade moved towards the metro- 
well is described in the Spectator^ polis with becoming decency.* Sport- 
No. 436, as 'a place of no small iVf^ J/a^a^/>f^for April, 1796, p. 46. 
renown for the gallantry of the lower ' Mrs. Dyot has been mentioned 
order of Britons.' See Life^ iii. 134, before. AntCy i. 342. Frank was 
n, I, In an account of a prize-fight Johnson's black servant, 
on Wimbledon Common on April 6, * First published in Crokcr's Bos- 
1796, we read : — * The combatants well^ page 539. Corrected by me 

to 



Aetat. 67.] To Mrs. ThraU. 31 

to be without any account of your health. I am willing to 
flatter myself that you are better, though you gave me no reason 
to believe that you intended to use any means for your recovery. 
Nature often performs wonders, and will, I hope, do for you 
more than you seem inclined to do for yourself. 

In this weakness of body with which it has pleased God to 
visit you, he has given you great cause of thankfulness, by the 
total exemption of your Mind from all effects of your disorder. 
Your Memory is not less comprehensive or distinct, nor your 
reason less vigorous and acute, nor your imagination less active 
and spritely than in any former time of your life. This is a 
great Blessing, as it respects enjoyment of the present, and 
a blessing yet far greater as it bestows power and opportunity to 
prepare for the future. 

All sickness is a summons. But as you do not want exhorta- 
tions, I will send you only my good wishes, and intreat ' you to 
believe the good wishes very sincere, of, 

Dear Madam, 

Your most humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 

Ashbourne, Sept. 13, 1777. 

To Mrs. Aston, at Stowhill, Lichfield. 

647. 

To Mrs. Thrale*. 
Dear Madam, [Ashbourne], Sept. 15, 1777. 

Do you call this punctual correspondence? There was 
poor I writing, and writing, and writing, on the 8th, on the iith\ 
on the 13th; and on the 15th I looked for a letter, but I may 
look and look. Instead of writing to me you are writing the 
Thraliana ^. But — he must be humble who would please ^. 

Last night came Boswell. I am glad that he is come. He 
seems to be very brisk and lively, and laughs a little at ^ 

firom the original in Pembroke ^ This letter is not published. 

College Library. * Ante^ ii. 26, n. 3. 

• Johnson in his Dictionary only * Ante^ i. 352, n, i. 

gives erUreaty but Bailey gives the * * On Sunday evening, September 

word under both forms. 14, 1 arrived at Ashbourne, and drove 

' Pioszi Letters, i. 368. directly up to Dr. Taylor's door. 

I told 



32 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A.D. 1777. 



I told him something of the scene at Richmond *. You find, 
now you have seen the progenies Langtaniana^ that I did not 
praise them without reason ; yet the second girl is my 
favourite. 

You talk of pine-apples and venison. Pine-apples it is sure 
we have none; but venison, no forester that lived under the 
green-wood-tree ever had more frequently upon his table. We 
fry, and roast, and bake, and devour in every form. 

We have at last fair weather in Derbyshire % and every where 
the crops are spoken of as uncommonly exuberant. Let us now 
get money and save it. All that is paid is saved, and all that is 
laid out in land or malt. But I long to see twenty thousand 
pounds in the bank, and to see my master visiting this estate and 
that, as purchases are advertised ^ But perhaps all this may be 
when Colin's forgotten and gone *. Do not let me be forgotten 
before I am gone, for you will never have such another, as. 

Dearest dear Madam, 

Your most humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 



Dr. Johnson and he appeared before 
I had got out of the post-chaise, and 
welcomed me cordially.' Life^ iii. 
135. It was Taylor whom Boswell 
laugjied at. For his account of that 
'hearty English ^Squire, with the 
parson super-induced,' see ib, ii. 
473 ; iii. 180, and for Johnson's laugh 
at Taylor, post^ Letter of May 25, 
17S0. 

' Mrs. Thrale replied: — *I am 
glad the Richmond scene diverted 
you ; my master laughed when I read 
it over to him.* Piozzi Letters, i. 
377. The next passage in Johnson's 
letter leads me to think that Bennet 
Langton was at this time living at 
Richmond, and that it was his mode 
of life which was described. Life, 
iii. 48, 338. Mrs. Thrale in her letter 
of the 1 8th says: — * Mr. Thrale is 

cured of his passion for Lady R 

already.' Langton*s wife was the 



dowager Lady Rothes. For his three 
lovely children see ante, i. 393. 

' The weather in Staffordshire had 
been extraordinarily fine nearly three 
weeks earlier. Ante, ii. 25. 

^ ' Even Johnson could not help 
dreaming felicities for himself, and, 
what is more ridiculous, for others. 
The two last years of Thrale's life his 
Brewery brought him thirty thousand 
a year neat profit. Was it happy on 
that account ? He died.' — Baretti. 

* * While Colin forgotten and gone 

No more shall be talked of or 
seen ; 

Unless when beneath the pale 
moon, 

His ghost shall glide over the 
green.' 
ROWE. CampbelPs British Poets, 
ed. 1845, P* 334« Set post. Letter of 
April II, 1780. 

To 



Aetot. es.] To Mrs. Thralc. x-x 



o»> 



648. 

To Mrs. Thrale '. 

Dear Madam, Ashbourne, Sept. 18, 1777. 

Here is another birth-day. They come very fast. I am 
now sixty-eight. To lament the past is vain ; what remains is 
to look for hope in futurity. Queeney has now passed another 
year '. I hope every year will bring her happiness. 

Boswell is with us in good-humour ; and plays his part with 
his usual vivacity^. We are to go in the Doctor's vehicle and 
dine at Derby to-morrow. 

Do you know any thing of Bolt-court? Invite Mr. Levet 
to dinner, and make enquiry what family he has, and how they 
proceed ^ I had a letter lately from Mrs. Williams. Dr. Lewis^ 
visits her, and has added ipecacuanha to her bark : but I do not 
hear much of her amendment. Age is a very stubborn disease. 
Yet Levet sleeps sound every night ^ I am sorry for poor 
Seward's pain ; but he may live to be better'. 

Mr. • • • • • 's erection of an urn looks like an intention to 
bury me alive; I would as willingly see my friend, however 
benevolent and hospitable, quietly inurned. Let him think for 
the present of some more acceptable memorial ^. 

* Pioszi Letters^ i. 370. * I should never have expected 
' * Thursday, Septemberi 8. Last that Levett {Life^ i. 243) was ad- 
night Dr. Johnson had proposed mitted to Mrs. Thrale's table. For 
that the crystal lustre, or chandelier, the enquiry about him sttfiost, p. 39. 
in Dr. Taylor's large room, should ^ He is mentioned post^ Letter of 
be lighted up some time or other. October 16, 1779. 
Taylor said, it should be lighted up ^ He slept too soundly one night 
next night. " That will do very well more than four years later, when 
(said I), for it is Dr. Johnson's birth- * Death broke at once the vital 
day." ' When we were in the Isle of chain, 
Sky, Johnson had desired me not to And freed his soul the nearest 
mention his birth-day. He did not way.' 
seem pleased at this time that I ^f^i iv. 137-9- 
mentioned it, and said (somewhat ^ Ante, i. 346, n. i. He lived till 
sternly) "he would not have the 1799. Mme.D'Arblay*sZ>;Vir>',vi.2i7. 
lustre lighted the next day." * Z(/Sr, ® Colonel Myddelton set up an 
iii. 157. Queeney's birth-day came a urn to him; but not, the inscription 
day earlier. seems to show, till after his death. 
^ * That is, he makes more noise Life, iv. 421, «.2. Boswell told John- 
than anybody in company, talking son, when they were at Auchinleck, 
and laughing loud.*— Bar ETTl. that he intended to erect a monu- 

VOL. IL D Does 



34 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A.D. 1777. 



Does nobcxly tell • • • • that a warmer climate and a clearer 
air is likely to help her son, and that it may be convenient to 
run away from an English winter, before he becomes too weak 
for travel ? It appears to me not improbable that change of air, 
and the amusement and exercise of easy journeys, might enable 
one so young to overcome his disease '. 

Dr. Taylor has another buck. You must not talk to us of 
venison. Fruit indeed we have little, and that little not very 
good ; but what there is has been very liberally bestowed *. 

Mr. L ^and the Doctor still live on different sides of the 

street. 

We have had, for some time past, such harvest weather as 

a Derbyshire farmer dares scarcely hope. The harvest has this 

year been every where a month backward, but so far as I can 

hear, has recompensed the delay by uncommon plenty. Next 

year will, I hope, complete Mr. Thrale's wish of an hundred 

thousand barrels^. Ambition is then to have an end, and he 

must remember, that non minor est virttis quatn qticerere^ parta 

titer e^. When he has climbed so high, his care must be to keep 

himself from falling. . j n, j 

** I am, dear Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

649. 

To Mrs. Thrale ^ 
Dear Madam, Ashbourne, Sept. 20, 1777. 

I do not remember what has happened that you write on 
mourning paper, and use black wax. 



ment to him there. * He could not 
bear to have death presented to him 
in any shape ; for his constitutional 
melancholy made the kingof terrours 
more frightful. He turned off the 
subject, saying, " Sir, I hope to see 
your grand-children ! ** * IJfe. v. 380. 

' Ante, ii. 28, n, 4. 

' * I have heard Dr. Johnson pro- 
test that he never had quite as much 
as he wished of wall-fruit except once 
in his life, and that was when we were 
all together at Ombersley.* Piozzi's 



Anecdotes^ p. 103. 

' Mr. Langley. Ante^ i. 347. 

* * Thrale went greatly beyond his 
hundred thousand barrels, and a 
good deal of their produce is now 
enjoyed by a paltry singing-master.' 
Baretti. Ante, ii. 23. 

5 Tueri, OviD. Ars Amat.\\.\i, 
This misprint illustrates what John- 
son said of Mrs. Thrale : — * Her 
learning is that of a school-boy in 
one of the lower forms.' Ufe^ i. 494. 

* Piflzzi Letters f i. 379. 

B 



Aetat.68.] To Mrs. TkraU, 35 



B liked S better as he knew him more, 

and seems well pleased to be remembered by him and my 
master^ 

Pretty dear Queeneyl I wish her many and many happy 
birth-days. I hope you will never lose her, though I should go 
to Lichfield, and though she should sit the thirteenth in many 
a company '. 

You have nothing to say because you live at Streatham, and 
expect me to say much when I return from Lichfield and 
Ashbourne, places to be considered as abounding in novelty, and 
supplying every hour materials for history. It is as much as 
I can do to furnish every post with a letter; I keep nothing 
behind for oral communication. 

I took Boswell yesterday to see Keddlestone ^, and the silk 
mills ^ and the china work at Derby ; he was pleased with all. 
The Derby china is very pretty, but I think the gilding is all 
superficial ; and the finer pieces are so dear, that perhaps silver 
vessels of the same capacity may be sometimes bought at the 
same price ; and I am not yet so infected with the contagioil of 
china-fancy, as to like any thing at that rate which can so easily 
be broken ^. 



' B is Boswell, and S pp. 193-205. Johnson's definition 

Seward, who had lately visited Edin- of mill does not include a silk- 
burgh. Li/e^xxx, 123, 6. ' mill; he defines it as 'an engine or 

* AntCy ii. 29, n, 4. fabrick in which com is ground to 

^ Lord Scarsdale's seat. Here meal, or any other body is commi- 

Johnson saw lying ' in his Lordship's nuted.' 

dressing-room his small ZVr//<7frar^'; ^ 'The same fashion a few years 

showing it to Boswell he said : — ago prevailed in Genoa, which still 

' Look 'yc. Q^ae regio in terris has place in England and Holland, of 

nosiri turn plena laboris f ' Li/Cy using services of China-ware instead 

iii. 161. of plate ; but the senate, foreseeing 

^ The silk-mills were those in the consequence, prohibited the use 

which William Hutton just forty of that brittle commodity beyond a 

years earlier had brought his servi- certain extent ; while the use of 

tude of ' intolerable severity ' to an silver-plate was left unlimited. And 

end. He describes them as ' a place I suppose in their late distresses they 

most curious and pleasing to the eye, felt the good effect of this ordinance, 

but which gave me a seven years' Our tax on plate is perhaps in this 

heart-ache.' Life of William Huttouy view somewhat impolitic* Hume's 

p. 24, and Mutton's History of Derby ^ Essay Sy ed. 1770, ii. 93. 

D 2 Master 



36 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A.D. 1777. 



Master is very inconstant to Lady R '. Did he not 

hold out against forty such repellents from Mrs. P ? He 

grows nice I find ; let him try whether nicety will make him 
happy. 

Boswell has spent more money than he expected, and I must 
supply him with part of his expences home '. I have not much 
with me, and beg Master to send me by the next post a note of 
ten pounds, which I will punctually return, not in opportunities 
of beneficence, though the noblest payment in the world, but in 
money, or bank-paper. Do not let him forget me. 

Do not suppose that I wrote this letter on purpose to borrow. 
My soul disdains it. I did not think on it when I began to 
write. When I miss a post, I consider myself as deviating from 
the true rule of action. Seeing things in this lights I consider 
every letter as something in the line of duty ; upon this foot 
I make my arrangement, and under whatever circumstances of 
difficulty, endeavour to carry them into execution ; for having in 
some degree pledged myself for the performance, I think the 
resolution both of my head and my heart engaged, and reprobate 
every thought of desisting from the undertaking ^ 



' Perhaps Lady R is Lady 

Rothes, the wife of Bennet Langton. 
The Thrales apparently had visited 
them at their house at Richmond. 
Ante^ ii. 32. Another Lady Rothes 
had married Dr. Lucas Pepys. Early 
Diary of Fanny Bumey^ ii. 306, «. 

2. If she were meant, Mrs. P 

might be a former Mrs. Pepys. 

* * When I happened to mention that 
the expence of my jaunt would come 
to much more than I had computed, 
he said, " Why, Sir, if the expence 
were to be an inconvenience, you 
would have reason to regret it : but, 
if you have had the money to spend, 
I know not that you could have pur- 
chased as much pleasure with it in 
any other way." ' Ufe^ iii. 196. 

^ Boswell records that during this 
visit to Ashbourne, Johnson one 
day * found fault with me for using 



the phrase to make money. " Don't 
you see (said he) the impropriety of 
it ? To make money is to coin it : 
you should say get money." * ♦ ♦ 
He was at all times jealous of infrac- 
tions upon the genuine English 
language, and prompt to repress col- 
loquial barbarisms ; such as, piedg-- 
ingmyseify for undertaking \ line, for 
department^ or branch, as, the ciml 
line, the banking line* Life, iii. 196. 
In a note on The Merry Wives of 
Windsor, Act iv. sc. 7, he says : — 
* To come ^ seems to mean what is 
in our time expressed by to come 
down, to pay liberally and readily. 
These accidental and colloquial 
senses are the disgrace of language 
and the plague of conmientators.' 
Mrs. Piozzi, in her Synonymy, i. 93, 
repeating no doubt what she re- 
membered from Johnson's talk> 

Howel 



Aetot. 68.] 



To Mrs, Thrale. 



?>7 



Howel tells of a few words in Spanish, the true utterance of 
which will denominate the speaker bueno Romanciador ; the last 
sentence will un bueno politico \ He that can rattle those words 
well together may say all that political controversy generally 
produces. 

I am^ &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

P,S, Nay, but do enquire after Bolt-court. 



660. 

To Mrs. Thrale ^ 

Dear Madam, AshboumcSept. 22, 1777. 

Now to sit down to tell me a long newspaper story about 
Lord Harcourt and his dog ^. — I hoped when you had seen Levet 
you would have learned something that concerned me. 



says: — *A man cannot lie under 
circumstances, because they are sure 
to stand around him.' Landor says 
that * Hurd writes, " under the cir- 
cumstancesr Circumstances are 
about us, not €Ufove us.' Landor*s 
JVorks, ed. 1876, v. 108. Murray 
(afterwards Lord Mansfield), in his 
legal opinion about Johnson's libellous 
definition of Excise, given in 1755, 
says: — * ^^/r^^rrall the circumstances.' 
Li/ef i. 295, n. 9. Johnson surely 
forgets his fourteenth definition of 
under, as Mn a state of being liable 
to, or limited by,' where he quotes 
' under pain of greater displeasure,' 
' under a necessity,' &c. 

' Howell, in a letter written from 
Madrid on August i, 1623 (Book ii. 
No. 71), says : — *The conclusion of 
this rambling letter shall be a rhyme 
of certain hard throaty words which 
I was taught lately, and they are 
accounted the difficultest in all the 
whole Castilian language ; insomuch 
that he who is able to pronounce 
them is accounted Buen Romancista, 



a good speaker of Spanish : Abeja y 
oueja y piedra que rabeia, pendola 
tras oreja, y lugar en la ygreia, 
dessea a su hijo la vieja^ Johnson 
says that in like manner the last 
sentence of the letter in the text, con- 
taining as it does the cant phrases of 
the orators or political writers of the 
day, will denominate the speaker a 
good politician. 

' Piozzt Letters^ i. 382. 

' Horace Walpole wrote on Sept. 
18 about 'an amazing piece of news 
that I have this moment received 
from town. The dinner-bell had 
rung — where? at Nuneham. The 
Earl [Lord Harcourt] did not appear. 
After much search, he was found 
standing on his head in a well, a 
dear little favourite dog upon his 
legs, his stick and one of his gloves 
lying near.' He added in his next 
letter that *in all probability he 
perished by trying to save his dog. 
You know how that must touch me,^ 
Letters, vi. 481, 3. 

I hope 



;8 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A.D. 1777. 



I hope Master has been so kind as to send me the ten 
pounds, else I shall be forced to borrow at Ashbourne or 
Lichfield. 

Boswell has been this morning with me to see Ham Garden '. 
He talks of going away this week, and I shall not think of 
staying here much longer, though the wind whistles very prettily. 
My nights are still such as I do not like ; but complaint will not 
mend them. 

If • • • • ' holds life to one-and-twenty, he will probably live 
on ; for his constitution, if it does not grow weaker, will become 
firmer. The harvest in Staffordshire has been such for plenty, 
and so well gathered, as to be mentioned with admiration ^ 
Make your most of these golden years, and buy liberally what 
will now be liberally allowed. I hope to partake a little of 
the general abundance — But I am now sixty-eight. Make good 
use, my dear Lady, of your days of health and sprightliness. 
Sixty-eight is coming fast upon you; — let it not find you 
wondering what has become of all the past. 

If Aunt * comes now, she can do but little harm, for she will 
hardly go with you to Brighthelmstone, and she cannot long 
trouble you at Streatham. 

I hope soon to come to Lichfield, and from Lichfield to 
London. 

Taylor and Bos. send their compliments with those of. 

Madam, 

Your most humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 



' Ilam or Islam in Dovedale. It 
had been formerly the seat of the 
Congreves. Boswell was shown a 
recess in which Congreve was said 
to have written his Old Bachelor, 
It was on the road to Ilam that 
Johnson told Boswell how the Plan 
of the Dictionary came to be in- 
scribed to Lord Chesterfield. The 
Thrales and Johnson had seen the 
place in 1774. Lif^, i. i83i «. 4; 
iii. 187 ; V. 429. 

' Sir John Lade. Ante^ ii. 28, «. 4. 



^ The Earl of Carlisle wrote from 
Castle Howard on September 12 : — 
*We have great quantities of fruit, 
and better flavoured than I ever 
remember. The weather is very 
favourable for the harvest, and there 
are great appearances of plenty. 
Our farmers will be puzzled for 
cause of complaint* Selwyn and 
his Contemporaries^ ed. 1882, iii. 
228. 

* She is mentioned, post, pp. 44, 

47. 

To 



Aetot. 68.] 



To Mrs, Thrale. 



39 



561. 

To Mrs. Thrale*. 

Dear Madam, Ashbourne, Sept. 25, 1777. 

Boswell is gone ; and is, I hope, pleased that he has been 
here ; though to look on any thing with pleasure is not very 
common. He has been gay and good-humoured in his usual 
way ', but we have not agreed upon any other expedition. He 
had spent more money than he intended, and I supplied him ; 
my deficiencies are again made up by Mr. Thrale's bill, for which 
I thank him. 

I will send directions to the taylor to make me some cloaths 
according to Mr. Thrale's direction ^, though I cannot go with 
you to Brighthelmstone, having loitered away the time I know 
not how ; but if you would have me, I will endeavour to follow 
you, which upon the whole may perhaps be as well. I am here 
now on the 25th, and am obliged by promise to take Lichfield 
in my way, so that the 30th will come upon me too soon. 

The Levet that has been found in the register must be some 
other Levet ^ ; I dare say our friend does not in his heart believe 
that it is he. 

I am glad that the Benedictines found you at last. Father 
Wilkes, when he was amongst us, took Oxford in his way. 
I recommended him to Dr. Adams, on whom he impressed 



* Pioszi Letters^ i. 384. 

' ' That is, in his noisy and silly 
way.' Baretti. * From this meet- 
ing at Ashbourne,' writes Boswell, 
' I derived a considerable accession 
to my Johnsonian store.' Life^ iii. 
208. He stayed there but ten days ; 
nevertheless the account of the visit 
fills 74 pages of my edition of the 
Ufe, In the quietness of the country 
he found it no doubt much easier ' to 
keep his Journal very diligently.* 

^ Boswell says that *by asso- 
ciating with Mrs. Thrale Johnson's 
external appearance was much im- 
proved. He got better clothes ; and 



the dark colour, from which he 
never deviated, was enlivened by 
metal buttons.' Life, iii. 325. 

* Mrs. Thrale had written on 
September 18: — * My husband bids 
me tell you that he has examined 
the register, and that Levet is only 
seventy-two.' Piozzi Letters, i. 374. 
Johnson, /^j/. Letter of August 14, 
1780, speaks of him as being four- 
score. In the lines he wrote on his 
death in 1782, he says ; — 

* His frame was firm, his powers 

were bright. 
Though now his eightieth year 
was nigh.' Life, iv. 138. 

a high 



40 



To Mrs, Thrale. 



[A.D. 1777. 



a high opinion of his learning. I am glad that my cell is 

reserved '. I may perhaps some time or other visit it, though 

I cannot easily tell why one should go to Paris twice. Our own 

beds are soft enough '. Yet my master will tell you, that one 

wants to be doing something. I have something like a longing 

to see my master's performances ^ ; a pleasure which I shall 

hardly have till he returns from Brighthelmstone. I beg that 

before you go you will send the Bibliographia Britannica to my 

habitation ^ 

I am, Su:., 

Sam: Johnson. 

PS. Let your next be sent to Lichfield. 

652. 

To Mrs. Thrale ^ 

Dear Madam, Ashbourne, Sept. 27, 1777. 

I think I have already told you that Bos. is gone. The day 

before he went, we met the Duke and Duchess of Argyle in the 

street, and went to speak to them while they changed horses ^ ; 

and in the afternoon Mrs. Langton and Juliet^ stopped in their 



' See antey i. 401, 406. 

' Mrs. Thrale had written :— * Mr. 
Cowley [the Prior of the Benedict- 
ines] says that a cell is kept ready for 
your use. We asked Lord Mulgrave 
to meet him, and he said a thing so 
like a thing of your saying, that I 
will repeat it directly. We talked of 
England and France. — The beds 
are softer there than here, quoth my 
master. Softer, if you will, but not 
so clean, Sir, replied the Prior.— No, 
no, dirty enough to be sure, con- 
fessed Mr. Thrale, but exceeding 
soft. Why then, interrupts Lord 
Mulgrave, one may infer, that a hog 
in England lives just like a gentle- 
man in France I find— so there let 
the parallel rest. Now was not that 
speech quite in the spirit of our dear 
Mr. Johnson?' Piozzi Letters^ i. 
374. Just as Johnson did not care 
to see Paris twice, so neither did he 
care to visit a second time Wales or 



the Hebrides. 'Other people,* he 
said, * may go and see the Hebrides.* 
Life,\\\. 134; iv. 199. 

^ His alterations at Streatham. 
Anie^ ii. 22. 

* It was, I think, the Biographia 
Britannica that he wanted to see. 
He told Boswell at Ashbourne that 
' he had been asked to undertake the 
new edition of that work, but had 
declined it.' Life^ iii. 174. Bolt 
Court, it may be noticed, he here 
speaks of as his habitation ; his 
home was at Streatham. Ante^ i. 
129, and post^ Letter of November 7, 

1779- 
' Piozzi Letters^ i. 386. 

* They had dined with them in In- 
verary Castle in October, 1773. Ufe^ 
v. 353. It is strange that Boswell in 
the Life of Johnson passes over this 
meeting in silence; the omission 
must, I think, have been intentional. 

' If these ladies were Bennet 

way 



Aetot. 68.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



41 



way to London, and sent for me ; I went to them, and sent for 
Boswell, whom Mrs. Langton had never seen. 

And so, here is this post without a letter. I am old, I am old, 
says Sir John Falstaff^ * Take heed, my dear, youth flies apace.' 
You will be wanting a letter sometime. I wish I were with you, 
but I cannot come yet. 

Nives et frigora Rheni 

Me sine sola vides : Ah, ne te frigora laedant ! 
Ah, tibi ne teneras glacies secet aspera plantas ! ' 

I wish you well ; B and all ; and shall be glad to know 

your adventures. Do not however think wholly to escape me ; 
you will, I hope, see me at Brighthelmstone. Dare you answer 
me, as Brutus answered his evil genius ^ ? 

I know not when I shall write again, now you are going to the 

world's end. Extra anni solisque vias^y where the post will be 

a long time in reaching you. I shall, notwithstanding all distance, 

continue to think on you, and to please myself with the hope of 

being once again. 

Madam, 

Your most humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 



Langton's mother and sister they 
were not on the direct road to Lon- 
don from the family seat in Lincoln- 
shire. A passage in the next letter 
seems however to show that some 
actress and her daughter or com- 
panion were described. 
' 2 Henry /K, Act ii. sc. 4. 
' Virgil. Eclo^es^ x. 47. 
'While you (alas, that I should 

find it so !) 
To shun my sight your native 

soil forego, 
And climb the frozen Alps, and 

tread the eternal snow. 
Ye frosts and snows her tender 

body spare. 
Those are not limbs for icicles to 
tear.' 

Dryden. 
It is to a visit to Brighton that 



Johnson applies these lines. 
' * Brutus. Speak to me what 
thou art. 
Ghost. Thy evil spirit, Brutus. 
Brutus. Why comest thou? 
Ghost. To tell thee thou shalt 

see me at Philippi. 
Brutus. Well : then I shall see 

thee again ? 
Ghost. Ay, at Philippi. 
Brutus. Why, I will see thee 
at Philippi then.' 
Julius Ccesary Act iv. sc. 3. 
* Virgil. /Eneid^ vi. 796. 
* Beyond the solar year, without 
the starry way.* 

Dryden. 

Virgil is a second time brought in to 

describe the remoteness of Brighton. 

See also post^ p. 45. In 1770 the 

post, which had hitherto gone four 

To 



42 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A.D. 1777. 



663. 

To Mrs. Thrale '. 

Dear Madam, Ashbourne, Michaelmass day, 1777. 

And so because you hear that Mrs. Desmoulines ' has 
written, you hold it not necessary to write ; as if she could write 
like you, or I were equally content with hearing from her. — Call 
you this, backing your friends ^ ? She did write, and I remember 
nothing in her letter, but that she was discontented that I wrote 
only Madam to her, and Dear Madam to Mrs. Williams*. 
Without any great dearness in the comparison, Williams is, 
I think, the dearer of the two. I am glad that she mends, but 
I am afraid she cannot get the start of the season, and Winter 
will come before she is prepared for it. 

But at Streatham there are dears and dears, who before this 
letter reaches them will be at Brighthelmstone. Wherever they 
be, may they have no uneasiness but for want of me. 

Now you are gone, I wonder how long you design to stay; 
pray let me know when you write to Lichfield, for I have not 
lost hope of coming to you, yet that purpose may chance to fail. 
But my comfort is, that you cannot charge me with forgetting 
you when I am away. You perhaps do not think how eagerly 
I expect the post. 

Mrs. • • • • • grows old, and has lost much of her undulation 
and mobility. Her voice likewise is spoiled ; she can come upon 



days a week to Brighton, began to 
go every day but Sunday, from Mid- 
summer to Michaelmas in every 
year. For the other nine months it 
stiJl went only four days. Dodsley's 
Environs of London, v. 221, and 
Court and City Register for 1775, 
p. 131. 

' Piozzi Letters, i. 388. 

' Boswell going up to London in 
the following March writes : — * I 
found Dr. Johnson at his own house, 
sitting with Mrs. Williams, and was 
informed that the room formerly 
allotted to me was now appropriated 
to a charitable purpose ; Mrs. Des- 



moulins, and I think her daughter, 
and a Miss Carmichael, being all 
lodged in it. Such was his human- 
ity, and such his generosity, that 
Mrs. Desmoulins herself told me, he 
allowed her half-a-guinea a week. 
Let it be remembered, that this was 
above a twelth part of his pension.* 
Life, iii. 222. She was the daughter 
of his godfather. Ante, i. 6, n, 3. 

' *Call you that backing of your 
friends ? * i Henry IV, Act ii. sc. 4. 

* See post. Letter of Nov. 7, 1779, 
for 'Discord keeping her residence 
in this habitation,' and Life^ iii. 
461. 

the 



Aetat. 68.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



43 



the stage now only for her own benefit '. But Juliet is airy and 
cheerful, and has I hope done lamenting the inconstancy of 
man. My mistress is represented as unable to bear them 
company. There was not time for many questions, and no 
opportunity of winding and winding them, as Mr. Richardson ' 
has it, so as to get truth out without questions. I do not indeed 
know that I am any great winder. I suspect a winder to be 
always a man vacant, and commonly little-minded. I think my 
dear little mistress no great proficient at winding, though she 
could wind if she would, contentnit potius quam nescit. 

Dr. Taylor desires always to have his compliments sent. He 
is, in his usual way, very busy; getting a bull to his cows, 
and a dog to his bitches. His waterfall runs very well. Old 
Shakespeare is dead, and he wants to buy another horse for his 
mares ^. He is one of those who finds every hour something new 
to wish or to enjoy ^. 

Boswell while he was here saw Keddlestone and the silk mills, 
and took Chatsworth in his way home ^ He says, his wife does 
not love me quite well yet, though we have made a formal 
peace ^ He kept his journal very diligently; but then what 
was there to journalize. I should be glad to see what he says 



' Ante^ ii. 40, n, 7. 

* Mrs. Piozzi, in a marginal note 
on her own copy of the Piozzi Let- 
ters^ says : — * Dr. Johnson said, that 
if Mr. Richardson had lived till / 
came out, my praises would have 
added two or three years to his life. 
** For," says Dr. Johnson, '* that 
fellow died merely for want of 
change among his flatterers: he 
perished for want of morey like a 
man obliged to breathe the same 
air till it is exhausted." ' Hayward's 
Piozzi y i. 311. 

' Ante^ i. 341. 

* ' Blest madman, who could every 

hour employ 
With something new to wish or 

to enjoy ! ' 
Dryden. Absalom and Achito- 
phel, 1. 553. 



^ For Keddlestone and the silk- 
mills see ante^ ii. 35. It was at 
Edensor Inn, close by Chatsworth, 
that the landlord told Boswell that 
*the celebrated Dr. Johnson had 
been in his house. I inquired who 
this Dr. Johnson was, that I might 
hear mine host's notion of him. 
"Sir, (said he,) Johnson, the great 
writer ; Oddity^ as they call him. 
He's the greatest writer in England ; 
he writes for the ministry; he has 
a correspondence abroad, and lets 
them know what's going on." ' Lifi^ 
iii. 209. 

^ It was she who said to her hus- 
band : — * I have seen many a bear 
led by a man, but I never before 
saw a man led by a bear.' lb, ii. 
269, n, I. 



of 



44 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A.D. 1777. 



of ••»••»••• '. I think I told you that I took him to 
Ham ». 

Why should you suspect me of forgetting lilly lolly ^ ? Now 
you will see the Shellys *, and perhaps hear something about the 
Cottons ^ ; and you will bathe, and walk, and dress, and dance, 
and who knows how little you will think on, Madam^ 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

664. 

To Mrs. Thrale*. 

Dear Madam, Ashboume, October 6, 1777. 

You are glad that I am absent ; and I am glad that you are 
sick ^. When you went away, what did you do with your aunt ? 
I am glad she liked my Susy; I was always a Susy, when 
nobody else was a Susy ®. How have you managed at your new 
place? Could you all get lodgings in one house, and meat at 
one table .^ Let me hear the whole series of misery; for, as 
Dr. Young says, / lave horrour. 

Methinks you are now a great way off ; and if I come, I "have 
a great way to come to you ; and then the sea is so cold, and the 
rooms are so dull ; yet I do love to hear the sea roar and my 



' Beauclerk, I suspect, is the name 
omitted. It suits the number of the 
asterisks. Johnson had just heard 
from Boswell a story to his [John- 
son's] disadvantage told by Beau- 
clerk. Li/e^ iii. 194, 209, 211. 

' Ilam. Ante, ii. 38, n. i. 

^ Mrs. Piozzi explains this in a 
marginal note. A Welsh squire had 
a half-witted son — his sole heir, 
whom he brought to a Christmas 
party at Llewenney Hall. * " What 
does the child say ? '* cries my aunt ; 
" it sounds like lilly loUy." " Indeed, 
my Lady Betty," replies the mother, 
in a sharp Welsh accent. " Dick 
does say lilly lolly, sure enough ; but 
he mains: — How do you do, Sir 
Robert Cotton.'' * Hayward's Piozzi, 

1.310- 



* The Letters of October 31, 1778, 
and August 35, 1780, show that the 
friend of the Thrales was Sir John 
Shelley, of Maresfield Park, Sussex. 
He was not an ancestor of the poet 
Shelley. 

' Johnson in his tour to Wales in 
1774 had visited Combermere, the 
seat of Sir Lynch Salusbury Cot- 
ton, Mrs. Thrale's cousin. Life, v. 

433- 

* Piozzi Letters^ ii. i. 

' This is explained by a passage in 
his first letter to Boswell after they 
parted : — * Mrs. Thrale is in hopes of 
a young brewer.* Li/e^ iii. 210. On 
July 3 of the following year he 
wrote : — 'Mrs. Thrale, poor thing, 
has a daughter.' lb. p. 363. 

^Ante, i. 354. 

mistress 



Aetat. 68.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



45 



mistress talk — For when she talks, ye gods ! how she will talk '. 
I wish I were with you, but we are now near half the length of 
England asunder. It is frightful to think how much time must 
pass between writing this letter and receiving an answer, if any 
answer were necessary '. 

Taylor is now going to have a ram ; and then, after Aries and 
Taurus, we shall have Gemini. His oats are now in the wet; 
here is a deal of rain. Mr. Langdon bought, at Nottingham fair, 
fifteen tun of cheese; which, at an ounce a-piece, will suffice 
after dinner for four hundred and eighty thousand men ^. This 
is all the news that the place affords. I purpose soon to be at 
Lichfield, but know not just when, having been defeated of 
my first design. When I come to town, I am to be very busy 
about my Lives. — Could not you do some of them for me ? 

I am glad Master unspelled * you, and run you all on rocks, 

and drove you about, and made you stir. Never be cross about 

it. Quiet and calmness you have enough of — a little hurry stirs 

life — and, 

Brushing o'er, adds motion to the pooP. 

Now pool brings my master's excavations into my head. 
I wonder how I shall like them ; I should like not to see them, 
till we all see them together. He will have no waterfall 
to roar like the Doctors. I sat by it yesterday, and read 
Erasmus's Militis Christiani Enchiridion ^ Have you got that 
book.^ 

Make my compliments to dear Queeney. I suppose she will 



' Ante^ i. p. 207. 

'He was at Ashbourne and she 
at Brighton. 

^ Johnson must have reckoned a 
ton as made up of 20 cwt. of 100 lbs. 
each. For his * delight in exercising 
his mind on the science of numbers,' 
see Life^ i. 72 ; iii. 207. 

* This word is not in Johnson's 
Dictionary. 

* * Nor love is always of a vicious 

kind, 
But oft to virtuous acts inflames 

the mind ; 
Awakes the sleepy vigour of the soul, 



And brushing o*er adds motion 

to the pool.' 
Dryden, quoted in Johnson's 

Dictionary under To Brush. 
^ It was translated into English in 
1 544 under the following title : — * En- 
chiridion Militis Christiani ; which 
may be called in Englysche, the 
hansome weapon of a Chrysten 
Knyght, replenysched with many 
goodly and godly preceptes ; made 
by the famus clerke Erasmus of 
Rotterdame, and newly corrected 
and imprinted.' 

dance 



46 



To Mrs. Thrale, 



[A.D. 1777. 



dance at the Rooms ^ and your heart will go one knows not 
how. 

I am, dearest, and dearest Lady, 

Your most humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 

666. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 

Dear Madam, [Ashbourne], October 13, 1777. 

Yet I do love to hear from you. Such pretty kind letters 
as you send. But it gives me great delight to find that my 
master misses me. I b^in to wish myself with you more than 
I should do, if I were wanted less. It is a good thing to stay 
away till one s company is desired, but not so good to stay after 
it is desired 

You know I have some work to do. I did not set to it very 
soon; and if I should go up to London with nothing done, 

what would be said, but that I was who can tell what ? 

I therefore stay till I can bring up something to stop their 
mouths, and then ^. 



' Miss Bumey, going to the Rooms 
at Brighton in October 1782, de- 
scribes the staring and whispering as 
she passed :— * That's she ! That's 
the famous Miss Bumey!' Mme. 
D'Arblay's Diary ^ ii. 160. Once 
when Queeney * was consulting with 
a friend about a new gown and 
dressed hat she thought of wearing 
to [sic\ an assembly, suddenly Mr. 
Johnson called out : — 
" Wear the gown and wear the 
hat, 
Snatch thy pleasures while 
they last ; 
Hadst thou nine lives like a 
cat, 
Soon those nine lives would 
be past." * 

PlOZZl's Anecdotes, p. 165. 
' Piozzi Letters, ii. 6. 
^ Boswell says that when they 



were at Ashbourne he talked to 
Johnson about the projected edition 
of the English Poets. He adds :— 

* My friend seemed now not much to 
relish talking of this edition.' Life^ 
iii. 137. In Murray's Johnsoniana, 
p. 227, it is recorded on the authority 
of the Rev. Mr. Parker, who had it 
from Mrs. Aston and her sister, that 

* a great portion of the Lives of the 
Poets was written at Stow Hill 
[Lichfield]. Johnson had a table by 
one of the windows, which was 
frequently surrounded by five or six 
ladies engaged in work or conver- 
sation. Mrs. Gastrel had a very 
valuable edition of Bailey's Diction- 
ary to which she [a misprint, no 
doubt, for he\ often referred. She 
told him that Miss Seward said that 
he had made poetry of no value by 
his criticism. ** Why, my dear lady," 

Though 



Aeut. 68] To Mrs. Thrale. 47 

Though I am still at Ashbourne, I receive your dear letters 
that come to Lichfield, and [do] you continue that direction, for 
I think to get thither as soon as I can. 

One of the does died yesterday, and I am afraid her fawn will 
be starved ; I wish Miss Thrale had it to nurse ; but the Doctor 
is now all for cattle, and minds very little either does or hens. 

How did you and your aunt part ' ? Did you turn her out of 
doors to b^n your journey? or did she leave you by her usual 
shortness of visits ? I love to know how you go on. 

I cannot but think on your kindness and my master's. Life 
has, upon the whole, fallen short, very short, of my early ex- 
pectation : but the acquisition of such a friendship, at an age 
when new friendships are seldom acquired, is something better 
than the general course of things gives man a right to expect 
I think on it with great delight, I am not very apt to be 

delighted. 

I am, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

666. 

To Mrs. Thrale*. 

Dearest Lady, Ashbourne, Oct. 16, 1777. 

I am just going out, and can write but little. How you 
should be long without a letter I know not, for I seldom miss 
a post I purpose now to come to London as soon as I can, for 
I have a deal to look after, but hope I shall get through the 
whole business. 

I wish you had told me your adventure, or told me nothing. 
Be civil to Lord • ♦ • •, he seems to be a good kind of man^. 
Miss may change her mind ; and will change it, when she finds 
herself get more credit by dancing than by whist * ; and though 
she should continue to like, as she likes now, the harm is none. 

replied he ; ** if silver is dirty, it is ^ Mrs. Thrale in her letter of 

not the less valuable for a good October i, had mentioned ^ Lord 

scouring.** ' It is a great exaggera- * * ♦ ^ who talks a great deal, and 

tion to say that he wrote ^ a great from a very fashionably furnished 

portion of the Lives' at Stow Hill. mind.' Piozzi Letters^ i. 392. 

' See ante^ ii. 38. * * Miss Thrale never could be 

* Piozzi Letters y ii. 8. brought to love dancing.' Baretti. 

Do 



48 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A.D. 1777. 



Do not yet begin, dear Madam, to think about the last\ You 
may well dance these dozen years, if you keep your looks as you 
have yet kept them ; and I am glad that Hetty ' has no design 
to dance you down. 

The poor P ^ I am sorry for the girl ; she seems to be 

doomed, before her time, to weakness and solicitude. What is 
that Bedrider ^ the supervisor ? He will be up again. But life 
seems to be closing upon them. 

I hope you still continue to be sick ^ and my dear master to 
be well. 

I am no sender of compliments, but take them once for all, 
and deliver them to be kept as rarities by Miss Owen, Mrs. 
Nesbit*, Miss Hetty, and Dr. Bumey. 

Still direct to Lichfield, for thither I am hastening ; and from 
Lichfield to London, and from London I hope to Brighthelm- 
stone. and from Brighthelmstone qiM terra patet'' , 

I am, dearest of all dear Ladies, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 



667. 

To Mrs. Thrale®. 

Dear Madam, Lichfield, October 22, 1777. 

I am come, at last, to Lichfield, and am really glad that 
I am got away from a place where there was indeed no evil, 
but very little good ^ You may, I believe, write once to Lich- 



' Johnson refers, I think, to the 
passage in his last Idler^ where he 
says, * there are few things, not 
purely evil, of which we can say with- 
out some emotion of uneasiness, this 
is the last,^ 

' Miss Thrale, whose name was 
Esther. 

^ A Mrs. P has been men- 
tioned, ante^ ii. 36. Mrs. Thrale 
some years later {Piozzi Letters^ ii. 

359) speaks of poor P 's ill state 

of health, where P , I suspect, is 

Perkins, Thrale's clerk and successor. 



* Bedrider is not in Johnson's 
Dictionary, According to Skeat 
(Etymo, Dict^y ^bedridden is cor- 
rupted from Anglo-Saxon bedrid(L, 
lit. " a bed-rider ; " one who can only 
ride on a bed, not on a horse.* 

* Ante^ ii. 44, n, 7. 

* For Miss Owen see ante^ ii. 5, 
n, I, and for Mrs. Nesbit, ante^ i. 221, 
/r. 3. 

' Ovid. Metamorphoses y i. 241. 
Quoted ante^ i. 226. 

* Piozzi Letters y ii. 10. 

' He wrote to Boswell on Nov. 

field 



Aeut.e8.] To Mrs. Thrale. 49 

field after you receive this, but after that it will be best to direct 
to London. 

Your throat is, I suppose, well by this time. Poor Mrs. • • • • 
it is impossible to think on without great compassion. — Against 
a blow so sudden, and so unexpected, I wonder that she supports 

herself. The consolations of 's girls must indeed be painful. 

She had intended to enjoy the triumph of her daughter's superi- 
ority '. They were prepared to wish them both ill, and their wishes 
are gratified. There is in this event a kind of system of calamity, 
or conflagration of the soul. Every avenue of pain is invaded at 
once. — Pride is mortified, tenderness is wounded, hope is disap- 
pointed. — Whither will the poor Lady run from herself? 

My visit to Stowhill has been paid. I have seen there a col- 
lection of misery. Mrs. Aston paralytick, Mrs. Walmsley lame, 
Mrs. Hervey blind, and I think another lady deaf. Even such is 
life'. 

I hope dear Mrs. Aston is a little better ; it is however very 
little. She was, I believe, glad to see me ; and to have any body 
glad to see me is a great pleasure ^. 

I will tell, while I think on it, that I really saw with my own 
^yti^ Mr. Chaplin of Lincolnshire's letter^ for Taylor's cow, 
accompanied with a draught on Hoare for one hundred and 
twenty-six pounds to pay for her. Frank says, the young bull is 
not quite so big as the old one ; Taylor, I think, says he is bigger. 

I have seen but one new place this journey, and that is Leek 
in the Morlands^. — An old church, but a poor town. 

25 : — ' I staid long at Ashbourne, Such is life. Let us try to pass it 

not much pleased, yet awkward at well, whatever it be, for there is 

departing.' Ufe^ iii. 211. surely something beyond it.' lb. iii. 

* She is referred to again, post^ 211. 

p. 54. ^ See ante^ i. 316, where he says: 

' Mrs. Walmsley was the sister of — 'I am always proud and pleased 

Mrs. Aston, and the widow of John- to have my company desired.' 

son's friend and patron, Gilbert ^ Mr. Chaplin was, I suppose, an 

Walmsley. Mrs. Hervey was another ancestor of the present President of 

sister, the widow of the Hon. Henry the Board of Agriculture. See ante^ 

Hervey. Ufe^ i. 83, «. 4. Johnson i. 166, for *the man who offered an 

wrote to Boswell : — ' I went to Lich- hundred guineas for the young bull.' 

field, where I found my friend at * It was at Leek that Johnson's 

Stow Hill very dangerously diseased, father served his apprenticeship. 

VOL. II. E The 



so 



To Mrs, Thrale, 



[A J). 1777. 



The days g^ow short, and we have frosts ; but I am in all 

weathers, Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

668. 

To Mrs. Thrale*. 

Dear Madam, Lichfield, October 25, 1777. 

Cholmondely's story shocks me, if it be true, which I can 
hardly think, for I am utterly unconscious of it ; I am very sorry, 
and very much ashamed ^ 

I am here for about a week longer, and then I purpose to 
hasten to London. How long do you stay at Brighthelmstone ? 
Now the company is gone, why should you be the lag ^ ? The 
season of brewing will soon be here, if it is not already come. 
We have here cold weather, and loud winds. 

Miss Porter is better than is usual, and Mrs. Aston is, I hope, 
not worse, but she is very bad ; and being, I fancy, about sixty- 
eight, is it likely that she will ever be better ^ ? 

It is really now a long time that we have been writing and 
writing, and yet how small a part of our minds have we written ^ ? 
We shall meet, I hope, soon, and talk it out. 



Ufe^ i. 37. Here the slight shock of 
an earthquake had been felt the night 
that Boswell rested there on his way 
to Ashbourne. lb, iii. 136. In an 
edition of Har wood's History of 
Lichfield in the Bodleian Library 
has been inserted at p. 487 the origi- 
nal of the following document : — 

*Leek, 3 Decmb. 1745. 
To the Headborrow of Endon. 

You are required imediatly [jiV] 
to bring to Leek Twenty Able Horses 
with proper Carts under pain of 
Military Execution for the Service 
of the Prince of Wales. 

* James Urquhart.' 

Johnson in his Dictionary, defin- 
ing f nor eland as ' a mountainous or 
hilly country,' adds: — *A tract of 
Staffordshire is called the Morlands! 

' Pioxzi Letters, ii. 12. 



" * Mr. Cholmondely's running a- 
way from his debtors.' Baretti. 
In this Baretti is wrong; for why 
should Johnson be ashamed of it ? 
For his act of rudeness and for his 
apology, see Life, iv. 345. 

^ * Him while he past the monster 

blind bespoke : 
What makes my ram the lag of 
all the flock ? ' 

Pope's Homer's Odyssey, ix. 525. 

^ He was thinking of himself, for 
sixty-eight was his own age. 

^ When Goldsmith at the Literary 
Club said to Johnson, ' '* There can 
now be nothing new among us : 
we have travelled over one another's 
minds," Johnson seemed a little 
angry, and said: — "Sir, you have 
not travelled over my mind, I 
promise you."' Life, iv. 183. 

You 



Aetat. 68.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



51 



You are not yet sixty-eight, but it will come, and perhaps you 
may then sometimes remember me. 

In the mean time, do not think to be young beyond the time ; 
do not play Agnes * ; and do not grow old before your time, nor 
suffer yourself to be too soon driven from the stage '. You can 
yet give pleasure by your appearance ; show yourself therefore, 
and be pleased by pleasing. It is not now too soon to be wise ; 
nor is it yet too late to be gay. 

Streatham is now, I suppose, the eighth wonder of the world ^ ; 
I long to see it, but do not intend to go till, as I once said before, 
my master, and you, and I, and nobody else shall be with us — 
perambulate it together. 

Cicely, I warrant you, will do well enough ^. I am glad you 

are so sick, and nobody to pity. Now for another pretty little 

girl. — But we know not what is best. 

I am, dearest Lady, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 
P>S, — Pay my respects to Miss Owen. 

669. 

To Mrs. THRALE^ 

Dear Madam, Lichfield, October 27, 1777. 

You talk of writing and writing, as if you had all the writing 

to yourself. If our correspondence were printed, I am sure 

posterity, for posterity is always the authour's favourite ^, would 



* He refers, I conjecture, to Ag^^s 
in Vicole des Femmes by Moli^re. 

• Pope gives different advice : — 

' WaOc sober off ; before a spright- 
Her age 
Comes tittering on, and shoves 
yoa from the stage.' 
Imit of Horace, 2 Efiis, ii. 324. 
Johnson too in his Vanity of 
Human Wishes^ 1. 307, tells how 
*New forms arise, and different 
views engage, 
Superfluoas lags the vef ran on 
the sts^e.' 



E 2 



' He is referring to Mr. Thrale's 
improvements. Ante^ ii. 45. 

* Cecilia Thrale married John 
Meredith Mostyn, and died on May 
I, 1857, aged 80, as is shown by her 
tomb-stone at Streatham. 

* Piozzi Letters^ ii. 14. 

* Goldsmith, in the Preface to his 
Essays^ says : — * As my drafts are in 
some danger of being protested at 
home, it may not be imprudent upon 
this occasion to draw my bills upon 
Posterity. Mr. Posterity. Sir, nine 
hundred and ninety-nine years after 

say 



52 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A J>. 1777. 



say that I am a good writer too. — AncKio sono pittare^. To sit 
down so often with nothing to say: to say something so often, 
almost without consciousness of saying, and without any remem- 
brance of having said, is a power of which I will not violate 
my modesty by boasting, but I do not believe that every body 
has it. 

Some, when they write to their friends, are all affection ; some 
are wise and sententious ; some strain their powers for efforts of 
gaiety : some write news, and some write secrets ; but to make a 
letter without affection, without wisdom, without gaiety, without 
news, and without a secret, is, doubtless, the great epistolick 
art^ 

In a man s letters, you know, Madam, his soul lies naked, his 
letters are only the mirrour of his breast; whatever passes 
within him is shown undisguised in its natural process ; nothing 
is inverted, nothing distorted ; you see systems in their elements; 
you discover actions in their motives. 

Of this great truth, sounded by the knowing to the ignorant, 
and so echoed by the ignorant to the knowing, what evidence 
have you now before you ! Is not my soul laid open in these 
veracious pages ^? Do not you see me reduced to my first 



sight hereof, pay the bearer, or order, 
a thousand pounds' worth of praise, 
free from all deductions whatsoever, 
it being a commodity that will then 
be very serviceable to him, and place 
it to the accompt of, &c' Gold- 
smith's Works^ ed. l8oi, iv. 301. 
Porson ends his Preface to his 
Letters to Mr, Archdeacon Travis by 
saying:— * Mr. Travis and I may 
address our letters to posterity ; but 
they will never be delivered accord- 
ing to the direction.^ 

' * It was this that made Correggio 
cry out on seeing Raphael's works, 
** I also am a painter : " he felt a 
kindred spirit in his own breast.' 
Conversations of Northcote^ p. 168. 

■ Epistolick is not in Johnson's 
Dictionary, 

^ The motto of Howell's Letters 



is : — ' Ut clavis portam, sic pandit 
epistola pectus.' Johnson in the 
Life of Pope says : — * It has been so 
long said as to be commonly be- 
lieved, that the true characters of 
men may be found in their letters, 
and that he who writes to his friend 
lays his heart open before him. But 
the truth is that such were the 
simple friendships of the Golden 
Age, and are now the friendships 
only of children. . . . There is in- 
deed no transaction which offers 
stronger temptations to fallacy and 
sophistication than epistolary inter- 
course.* Works, viii. 314. 

Boswell instances veracious as one 
of 'the three uncommon or learned 
words' which Johnson used in the 
Lives of the Poets, Life^ iv. 39. 

principles ? 



Aetat. ea] To Mrs. Thrale. 53 

principles ? This is the pleasure of corresponding with a friend, 
where doubt and distrust have no place, and every thing is said 
as it is thought. The original idea is laid down in its siniple 
purity, and all the supervenient conceptions are spread over it 
stratum super stratum, as they happen to be formed. These are 
the letters by which souls are united, and by which minds 
naturally in unison move each other as they are moved them- 
selves. I know, dearest Lady, that in the perusal of this, such is 
the consanguinity of our intellects, you will be touched as I am 
touched. I have indeed concealed nothing from you, nor do I 
expect ever to repent of having thus opened my heart. 

I am, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

660. 

To Mrs. Thrale ^ 
Dear Madam, Lichfield, October 29, 1777. 

Though after my last letter I might justly claim an interval 
of rest, yet I write again to tell you, that for this turn you will 
hear but once more from Lichfield. This da(y is Wednesday, 
on Saturday I shall write again, and on Monday I shall set out 
to seek adventures ; for you know. 

None but the brave deserve the fair '. 

On Monday we hope to see Birmingham, the seat of the 
mechanick arts ^ ; and know not whether our next stage will be 
Oxford, the mansion of the liberal arts ; or London, the resi- 
dence of all the arts together. The chymists call the world 
Academia Paracelsi ; my ambition is to be his fellow-student — 
to see the works of nature, and hear the lectures of truth. To 
LondonT therefore — London may perhaps fill me ; and I hope to 
fill my part of London. 

In the mean time, let me continue to keep the part which I 

* Piozzi Letters, ii. 14. city of philosophers ; we work with 

' ' None but the brave deserves our heads, and make the boobies of 

the fair.' Birmingham work for us with their 

Dryden. Alexander's Feast, hands.' Life, ii. 464. 



3 < 



Sir/ said Johnson, 'we are a> 



have 



54 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[AJD. 1777. 



have had so long in your kindness, and my master's ; for if that 
should grow less, I know not where to find that which may 
supply the diminution. But I hope what I have been so happy 
as to gain I shall have the happiness of keeping. 

I always omitted to tell you that Lucy's maid took the worm- 
powder with strict r^^ularity, but with no gfreat effect *. Lucy 
has had several letters from you, but cannot prevail on herself to 
write ; but she is very grateful. 

Mrs. Walmsley has been at Stowhill, and has invited me, 
when I come to Bath, to be at her house. Poor Mrs. Aston 
either mends not at all, or not perceptibly; but she does not 
seem to grow worse. 

I suppose ••••••••isby this time recovered, and perhaps 

grown wiser, than to shake his constitution so violently a second 
time ^ 

Poor Mrs ^ ! One cannot think on her but with great 

compassion. But it is impossible for her husband's daughters 
not to triumph; and the husband will feel, as Rochefoucault 
says, something that does not displease him ^ You and I, who 
are neutral, whom her happiness could not have depressed, may 
be honestly sorry. 

I am, dear Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 



' Ante^ ii. 18. 

' Johnson, I think, is writing of 
Topham Beauclerk, whom he had 
seen at Brighthelmston this autumn. 
U/e^ iii. 210. Horace Walpole 
wrote on July 6, 1779: — *Lord 
Bolingbroke, I hear, will live. At 
first they thought he had taken 
laudanum. It would have been a 
monstrous injustice in opium to kill 
him, when it will not despatch Beau- 
clerk.* Letters^ vii. 221. The injustice 
would have consisted in the fact that 
his divorced wife was married to 
Beauclerk with whom she had first 
lived in adultery. For Beauclerk's 
ill-health, see iJfey iii. 104. 



^ Ante^ ii. 49. 

* 'Dans Tadversit^ de nos meil- 
leurs amis nous trouvons toujours 
quelque chose qui ne nous d^plsut 
pas.' 

La Rochefoucauld. Reflexions 
Morales^ xcix. 

'As Rochefoucault his maxims 
drew 

From nature, I believe them true; 

They argue no corrupted mind 

In him ; the fault is in mankind. 

This maxim more than all the rest 

Is thought too base for human 
breast; 

^ In all distresses of our friends 

We first consult our private ends ; 

To 



Aetot. ea] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



55 



661. 

To Mrs. Thrale*. 

Dear Madam, Lichfield, November 3, 1777. 

This is the last time that I shall write, in this excui:sion, 
from this place. To-morrow I shall be, I hope, at Birmingham ; 
from which place I shall do my best to find the nearest way 
home. I come home, I think, worse than I went ; and do not 
like the state of my health. But, vive hodie % make the most of 

life. I hope to get better, and sweep the cobwebs. But I 

have sad nights. Mrs. Aston has sent me to Mr. Green ^ to be 
cured. 

Did you see Foote at Brighthelmstone ? — Did you think he 
would so soon be gone? — Life, says Falstaff, is a shuttle *. He 
was a fine fellow in his way ; and the world is really impover- 
ished by his sinking glories ^. Murphy ought to write his life, at 
least to give the world a Footeana ^. Now, will any of his con- 
temporaries bewail him ? Will Genius change his sex to weep ' ? 
I would really have hb life written with diligence ®. 



While Nature kindly bent to ease 

us 
Points out some circumstance to 

please us.** ' 
Swift. On the Death of Dr. 
Swift, Works ^ ed. 1803, xi. 24a 
' Piozzi Letters^ i. 398. 
This letter is inserted by Mrs. 
Piozzi under the date of October 3. 
Johnson in his last letter written on 
Wednesday, October 29, says : — * On 
Monday we hope to see Birmingham.' 
Monday was November 3. This 
letter was therefore written in the 
beginning of November. I have 
altered the month but kept the day 
of the month. Probably he delayed 
his journey one day. 
' ' Non est, crede mihi, sapientis 
dicere, Vivam. 
Sera nimis vita est crastina: 
vive hodie.' 

Martial, i. 16. 11. 
^ The Lichfield apothecary, and 



proprietor of the Museum. Ante^ i. 
161, n. 5. 

* Merry Wives of Windsor ^ Act 

V. sc. I. 

* Johnson in his Lives of the Poets 
applied the same thought to Gar- 
rick's death, 'which has,' he said, 
' eclipsed the gaiety of nations, and 
impoverished the public stock of 
harmless pleasure.' Life, i. 82. 

^ ' One half of it had been a 
string of obscenities.' Baretti. 

' See Life, iii. 374, where he said 
to a bard who made him read his 
Ode to the Warlike Genius of Bri- 
tain: — *Here is an error. Sir; you 
have made Genius feminine.' 

® Foote had died at Dover on his 
way to France on October 20, broken 
in spirit by a charge which had been 
brought against him, as false as it 
was infamous. Though it had been 
at once demolished when it was tried 
in the Court of King's Bench, with 

It 



56 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A.D. 1777. 



It will be proper for me to work pretty diligently now for 
some time. I hope to get through, though so many weeks have 
passed. Little lives and little criticisms may serve. 

Having been in the country so long, with very little to detain 

me, I am rather glad to look homewards. 

I am, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 



662. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 

Dear Madam, [Bolt Court], November lo, 1777. 

And so, supposing that I might come to town and neglect 
to give you notice, or thinking some other strange thought, but 
certainly thinking wrong, you fall to writing about me to Tom 
Davies % as if he could tell you any thing that I would not have 
you know. As soon as I came hither, I let you know of my 
arrival; and the consequence is, that I am summoned to 
Brighthelmstone through storms, and cold, and dirt, and all the 
hardships of wintry joumies. You know my natural dread of all 
those evils ; yet to shew my master an example of compliance, 
and to let you know how much 1 long to see you, and to boast 
how little I give way to disease, my purpose is to be with you 
on Friday. 

I am sorry for poor Nezzy, and hope she will in time be 
better ; I hope the same for myself. The rejuvenescency ^ of Mr. 
Scrase gives us both reason to hope, and therefore both of us 
rejoice in his recovery. I wish him well besides, as a friend to 
my master. 



Lord Mansfield as judge, Mrs. 
Piozzi persisted in believing in it. 
*Dr. Johnson,' she adds, 'never 
could persuade himself that things 
were as bad as the sufferer or his 
friends represented them ; he thought 
it wrong to believe so, and steadily 
made the best onH^ Hayward's 
Piozziy i. 311. For an interesting 
account of Foote see John Forster's 
Biographical Essays^ ii. 293 
' PioMMi Leiiersy ii. 4. 



This letter like the last is mis- 
dated. It was written not on 
October 10, but on November 10 — 
Lord Mayor's Day, as the context 
shows. November 9 that year fell 
on a Sunday, so that the Show had 
been put off till the morrow. 

" The bookseller of Russell Street, 
Covent Garden. Life, i. 390. 

^ This word is not in Johnson's 
Dictionary, For Mr. Scrase see 

^<^^9 i* 395) ^' ^' 

I am 



Aetat. 68.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



57 



I am just come home from not seeing my Lord Mayor's shew, 
but I might have seen at least part of it'. But I saw Miss 
Wesley and her brothers ; she sends her compliments '. Mrs. 
Williams is come home, I think a very little better. 

Every body was an enemy to that wig ^ — We will bum it, and 
get drunk ; for what is joy without drink. Wagers are laid in 
the city about our success, which is yet, as the French call it, 
problematical ^. Well, but seriously I think I shall be glad to 
see you in your own hair; but do not take too much time 
in combing, and twisting, and papering, and unpapering, and 
curling, and frizzing ^, and powdering, and getting out the powder, 
with all the other operations required in the cultivation of a 
head of hair ; yet let it be combed at least once in three months, 
on the quarter-day — I could wish it might be combed once at 
least in six weeks ; if I were to indulge my wishes, but what are 
wishes, without hopes, I should fancy the operation performed — 
one knows not when one has enough — perhaps every morning. 

I am, dearest Lady, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 



' The Lord Chancellor, when the 
Lord Mayor elect had been pre- 
sented to him, told him ' what plea- 
sure they must feel on a return of 
that dignity, peace and tranquillity, 
which had been lost and disturbed 
for many years past ; and hoped 
that matters would return to the old 
channel.' Annual Register^ 1717 y 
i. 3o8. See U/ef iii. 356, 459, for 
the return of the City to the old 
custom of appointing its Mayors by 
seniority. 

• Southey in his Ufe of Wesley 
(ed. 1846), on p. 368 of vol. i. speaks 
of John Wesley as having only three 
sisters who grew up. These were 
all married— Mrs. Wright (tb. p. 
378), Mrs. Whitelamb (1^.), and Mrs. 
Hall {ante^ L 372). He mentions, 
however, on p. 372 Keria, who died 
unmarried at an early age. I can- 



not find any mention of an unmarried 
sister at this time. 

^ * Madam wore a wig during many 
years in conformity with the Jew- 
women, having a great notion that in 
time the Jews will be again the great 
Favourites of God. But about this 
time she fell acquainted with Piozzi, 
who disliked a shaven poll in a 
woman, and that drew out of her all 
her Jewish notions.' Baretti. 

* Problematical is in Johnson's 
Dictionary. Horace Walpole writing 
on November 13 about the reports 
that Washington had lost 1500 or 
500 men on the lith or the 25th, 
continues : — * In short, it is the 
House that Jack built, except that it 
loses a story in the hands of every 
new builder.' Letters^ vii. 7. 

* Johnson has to frizle in his 
Dictionary i but not to frizz. 

To 



58 To Mrs, Aston. [A.D.1777. 

66S. 

To Mrs. Aston'. 

Dear Madam, London, Nov. 20, 1777. 

Through Birmingham and Oxford I got without any diffi- 
culty or disaster to London, though not in so short a time 
as I expected, for I did not reach Oxford before the second 
day. I came home very much incommoded by obstructed 
respiration, but by vigorous methods am something better. 
I have since been at Brighthelmston, and am now designing to 
settle. 

Different things. Madam, are fit for different people. It is fit 
for me to settle, and for you to move. I wish I could hear of 
you at Bath, but I am afraid that is hardly to be expected from 
your resolute inactivity. My next hope is that you will en- 
deavour to grow well where you are. I cannot help thinking 
that I saw a visible amendment between the time when I left 
you to go to Ashbourne, and the time when I came back. I 
hope you will go on mending and mending, to which exercise 
and cheerfulness will very much contribute. Take care there- 
fore, dearest Madam, to be busy and cheerful. 

I have great confidence in the care and conversation of dear 
Mrs. Gastrel. It is very much the interest of all that know her, 
that she should continue well, for she is one of few people that 
has the proper regard for those that are sick. She was so kind 
to me that I hope I never shall forget it, and if it be trouble- 
some to you to write I shall hope that she will do me another 
act of kindness by answering this letter, for I beg that I may 
hear from you by some hand or another. 

I am, Madam, 

Your most obedient servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 

The address, *To Mrs. Aston, Stow Hill, Lichfield,' is in Mr. Thrale's 
writing, the Letter being franked by him. 

' First published in Croker's Bos- the original in Pembroke Collie 
well, p. 565. Corrected by me from Library. 

To 



Aetat. 68.] 



To Mrs, Porter. 



59 



664. 

To Mrs. Porter'. 
Dear Love, London, Nov. 20, 1777. 

You ordered me to write you word when I came home. 
I have been for some days at Brighthelmstone, and came back 
on Tuesday night. 

You know that when I left you I was not well ; I have taken 
physic very diligently, and am perceptibly better; so much 
better that I hope by care and perseverance to recover, and see 
you again from time to time. 

Mr. NoUekens, the statuary, has had my direction to send you 
a cast of my head '. I will pay the carriage when we meet. 
Let me know how you like it ; and what the ladies of your rout ^ 
say to it. I have heard different opinions. I cannot think where 
you can put it. 

I found every body here well. Miss^ has a mind to be 

womanly, and her womanhood does not sit well upon her. 

Please to make my compliments to all the ladies and all the 

gentlemen to whom I owe them, that is, to a great part of the 

town. 

I am, dear Madam, 

Your most humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 

666. 

To James Boswell. 
London, November 25, 1777. Published in the Life^ iii. 210. 



' First published in Croker's Bos- 
well^ page 565. 

* An engraving from this bust is 
given in Fielding's quarto edition of 
the Dictionary and in Murray's 
Johmoniana, p. 400. ' Johnson was 
very much displeased at the man- 
ner in which the head had been 
loaded with hair, which the 
sculptor insisted upon, as it made 
him look more like an ancient 
poet. It had been modelled from 
the flowing locks of a sturdy Irish 
beggar, originally a street pavior, 



who, after he had sat an hour, refused 
to take a shilling, stating that he 
could have made more by begging. 
♦ * * Upon hearing the name of 
an eminent sculptor mentioned John- 
son observed :— " Well, Sir, I think 
my friend Joe Nollekens can chop 
out a head with any of them." ' 
Nollekens and his Times^ by J. T. 
Smith, i. 51. 

' Johnson does not in his Die- 
tionary give rout in the sense in 
which it is used here. 

^ Miss Thrale. 

To 



6o To Mrs. Gastrell. [a.d. 1777. 

666. 

To Mrs. Gastrell '. 

Dear Madam, 
Your long silence portended no good ; yet I hope the 
danger is not so near us as our anxiety sometimes makes us 
fear. Winter is indeed to all those that any distemper has 
enfeebled a very troublesome time, but care and caution may 
pass safely through it, and from Spring and Summer some 
relief is always to be hoped. When I came hither, I fell to 
taking care of myself, and by physick and opium had the con- 
striction that obstructed my breath very suddenly removed. 
My nights still continue very laborious and tedious, but they do 
not grow worse. 

I do not ask you, dear Madam, to take care of Mrs. Aston, 
I know how little you want any such exhortations, but I 
earnestly entreat her to take care of herself. Many lives are 
prolonged by a diligent attention to little things, and I am far 
from thinking it unlikely that she may grow better by degrees. 
However, it is her duty to try, and when we do our duty we 
have reason to hope. 

I am, dear Madam, 

Your most humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 

Bolt-court, Fleet-street. 
Dec 27, 1777. 

667. 

To James Boswell. 
[London], December 27, 1777. Published in the Life^ iii. 214. 

668. 

To James Boswell. 

[London], January 24, 1778. Published in the Life^ iii. 215. 

* First published in Croker's Bos- from the original in Pembroke QoV 
wellf page 566. Corrected by me lege Library. 

To 



Aetat. Q8.] 



To Thomas Cadell. 



6i 



Sir, 



669. 

To Thomas Cadell ^ 



If you should obtain what Mr. Davies tells me you design 
to ask, the office of Bookseller and Printer to the royal Academy, 
I take the liberty of requesting, and I request with great earnest- 
ness, that for any thing to be printed for the Academy, you will 
make use [of] Mr. Allen's press in Bolt court. Mr. Allen has 
hitherto done the work without payment, and having so long 
laboured only to his loss, it is reasonable that he should at last 
have some profit, at least some recompense. 

Mr. Allen's business is not extensive, and he will be glad of 
work which greater Printers do not want, nor value, and if you 
continue him in the employment you will confer a great favour 

upon, 

Sir, 

Your most humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 

Jan. 28, 1778. 
To Mr. Cadell. 



670. 



Sir, 



To 



Poor Mr. Gwyn is in great distress under the weight of the 
late determination against him, and has still hopes that some 
mitigation may be obtained. If it be true that whatever has 



' From the original in the posses- 
sion of Messrs. Puttick and Simpson 
of 47 Leicester Square. 

Thomas Cadell was the apprentice, 
partner and successor of Andrew 
Millar. In conjunction with William 
Strahan he published the Histories 
of Robertson and Gibbon, the later 
editions of Hume's Works, and some 
of the later works of Johnson. He 
was not related to Sir Walter Scott's 
publisher, Robert Cadell of £din- 
borgh. Hume's Letters to Strahan^ 
p. 93, n. 5. 



I am informed by Mr. F. A. 
Eaton, Secretary to the Royal 
Academy, that Thomas Cadell was 
printer to the Royal Academy from 
1778 to 1793. 

Edmund Allen was 'Johnson's 
landlord and next neighbour in Bolt 
Court.' Life^ iii. 14 1. 

' From the original in the posses- 
sion of Mr. M. M. Hollo way of 
Hillbrow, St. Julian's Road, Streat- 
ham. First published in my edition 
of the Life of Johnson^ v. 454, «. 2. 
See antey ii. 1 5. 

by 



62 



To Mrs. Porter. 



[AJ>. 1778. 



by his negligence been amiss, may be redressed for a sum 
much less than has been awarded, the remaining part ought 
in equity to be returned, or, what is more desirable, abated. 
When the money is once paid, there is little hope of getting 
it again. 

The load is, I believe, very hard upon him ; he indulges some 
flattering opinions that by the influence of his academical friends 
it may be lightened, and will not be persuaded but that some 
testimony of my kindness may be beneficial. I hope he has 
been guilty of nothing worse than credulity, and he then cer- 
tainly deserves commiseration. I never heard otherwise than 
that he was an honest man, and I hope that by your countenance 
and that of other gentlemen who favour or pity him some relief 

may be obtained. 

I am, Sir, 

Your most humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 

Bolt Court, Fleet Street, 
Jan. 30, 1778. 

671. 

To Saunders Welch. 
[London], February 3, 1778. Published in the Ufe, iii. 217. 



672 

To Mrs. Porter *. 
Dear Madam, Feb. 19, 1778. 

I have several little things to mention which I have hitherto 
neglected. You judged rightly in thinking that the bust would 
not please. It is condemned by Mrs. Thrale, Mrs. Reynolds, 
and Mrs. Garrick ; so that your disapprobation is not singular *. 



* First published in Croker*s Bos- 
well, page 568. 

' For the bust see ante^ ii. 59. 
NoUekens thought it one of his best 
works, and Chantrey thought it his 
finest work. Croker's Boswell^ p. 
568, n. 2. Mrs. Thrale's judgment 
was perhaps somewhat partial, if she 



had already entered Nollekens' 
studio that morning, when not know- 
ing her, he called out to Dr. Johnson 
who accompanied her : — * " I like 
your picture by Sir Joshua very much. 
He tells me it's for Thrale, a brewer, 
over the water; his wife's a sharp 
woman, one of the blue-stocking 

These 



Aetot. 68.] 



To Mrs. Montagu, 



'3 



These things have never cost me any thing, so that I do not 
much know the price. My bust was made for the Exhibition, 
and shown for honour of the artist, who is a man of reputation 
above any of the other sculptors. To be modelled in clay costs, I 
believe, twenty guineas, but the casts, when the model is made, are 
of no great price ; whether a guinea, or two guineas, I cannot tell. 

When you complained for want of oysters, I ordered you a 
barrel weekly for a month ; you sent me word sooner that you 
had enough, but I did not countermand the rest. If you could 
not eat them, could you not give them away ? When you want 
anything, send me word. I am very poorly, and have very rest- 
less and oppressive nights, but always hope for better. Pray for me. 

I am, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

67S. 

To Mrs. Montagu '. 
Madam, March 5, 1778. 

And so you are alarmed, naughty lady ' ? You might know 



people." "Nolly, Nolly," observed 
the Doctor, " I wish your maid would 
stop your foolish mouth with a blue- 
bag." ' Nollekens and his Times, i. 
114. The author of this book, J. T. 
Smith, Keeper of the Prints, &c. in 
the British Museum, says : — * I re- 
member well when I was in my eighth 
year Mr. Nollekens taking me to 
Oxford Road to see Sixteen-string 
Jack go to Tyburn for robbing Dr. 
William Bell. He was dressed in a 
pea-green coat, with an immense 
nosegay in the button-holes, which 
ha.d been presented to him at St. 
Sepulchre's Steps, and his nankin 
small clothes, we were told, were 
tied at each knee with sixteen strings. 
After he had passed, and Mr. 
Nollekens was leading me home by 
the hand, I recollect his stooping 
down to me, and observing in a low 
tone of voice ; — " Tom, now, my little 
man, if my father-in-law, Mr. Justice 
Welch, had been High Constable, we 
could have walked by the side of 



the cart all the way to Tyburn."' 
Nollekens and his Times, by J. T. 
Smith, 1828, i. 24. Welch had once 
been High Constable of Westminster, 
when he had been seen ' dressed in 
black, with a large wig, highly 
powdered, with long flowing curls, a 
high three-cornered hat and his black 
baton tipped with silver at either end, 
riding on a white horse to Tyburn 
with the malefactors.' lb. p. 121. 
Sixteen-string Jack — John Rann — 
was hanged on November 30, 1774. 
Gentleman^ s Magazine, 1774, p. 592. 

* Sixteen-string Jack,* said Johnson, 

* towered above the common mark.' 
Life, iii. 38. The Rev. Dr. Bell who 
was robbed was probably the Pre- 
bendary of Westminster mentioned 
ante,\, 118. 

' First published in Croker*s Bos- 
well, page 569. 

For Mrs. Montagu see ante, i. %T. 

' The alarm of Johnson's illness 
reached Edinburgh and distressed 
Boswell. In one of the London 

that 



64 To Mrs. Montagu. [A.D.i77a 

that I was ill enough when Mr. Thrale brought you my excuse. 
Could you think that I missed the honour of being at (your) 
table for any slight reason ? But you (have) too many to miss 
any one of us, and I am (proud) to be remembered at last. I 
am much better. A little cough remains, which will not confine 
me. To houses of great delicacy I am not willing to bring it. 

Now, dear Madam, we must talk of business. Poor Davies, 
the bankrupt bookseller, is soliciting his friends to collect a small 
sum for the repurchase of part of his household stuff*. Several 
of them gave him five guineas ; It would be an honour to him to 
owe part of his relief to Mrs. Montagu. 

Let me thank you. Madam, once more, for your inquiry; you 
have, perhaps, among your numerous train not one that values a 
kind word or a kind look more than, 

Madam, 

Yours, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

574. 

To Mrs. Montagu'. 
Madam, March 6, 1778. 

I hope Davies, who does not want wit, does not want grati- 
tude, and then he will be almost as thankful for the bill as I am 
for the letter that enclosed it. 

If I do not lose, what I hope always to keep, my reverence for 
transcendent merit, I shall continue to be with unalterable 

fidelity. 

Madam, 

Yours, &c., 

Sam : Johnson. 

676. 

To James Boswell. 
[Lx)ndon], April 23, 1778. Published in the Lifty iii. 277. 

papers ' the approaching extinction ' Lifey iii. 223. 

of a bright luminary ' was announced. ' First published in Croker's Bos^ 

UfCy iii. 221. welly page 570. 

To 



Aetot. 68.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



65 



576. 
_ ,, To Mrs. Thrale'. . ., 

Dear Madam, Apni 30, 1778. 

Since I was fetched away from Streatham, the journal stands 

*"«• Saturday.— Sir J. R 

Sunday. — Mr. Hoole ^. 
Monday. — Lord Lucan ^. 
Tuesday. — Gen. Paoli ^. 
Wednesday. — Mr. Ramsay. 
Thursday.— Old Bailey ^. 
Friday. — Club ^ 
Saturday. — Sir J. R ^ 
Sunday. — Lady Lucan ^. 



' Piozzi Letter Sy ii. i8. 

April 30, the day on which Johnson 
wrote, was a Thursday. 

' Sir Joshua Reynolds. See Life^ 
iii. 317, for an account of the dinner. 

^ Life^ ii. 289, n. 2. 

^ ' At the house of Lord and Lady 
Lucan Johnson often enjoyed all that 
an elegant table and the best com- 
pany can contribute to happiness.' 
Life^ iv. 326. 

' See ib. iii. 324 for an account of 
this dinner and p. 331 for an account 
of the dinner at Mr. Allan Ramsay's. 

• • The dinner at the Old Bailey,' 
says Mr. Croker, ' is one given during 
the Sessions to the judges, counsel, 
and a few guests. The venerable 
Mr. Clarke, Chamberlain of London, 
who died in 1831, in his ninety- third 
year, told me that he remembered 
having taken Johnson to this dinner, 
he being then sheriff. The judges 
were Blackstone and Eyre. Mr. 
Justice Blackstone conversed with 
Johnson on the subject of their 
absent friend, Sir Robert Chambers.' 
Croker's Boswell^ p. 610, ;f. I. * The 
Sessions which began on Wednesday 
last, April 29, at the Old Bailey, 
ended on Tuesday, May 5, when 

VOL. II. F 



fourteen convicts received sentence 
of death.' Gentleman's Magazine^ 
1778, p. 235. 
' Boswell wrote on April 4, 1775 :— 

* I dine, Friday, at the Turk's Head, 
Gerrard- street, with our Club, Sir 
Joshua Reynolds, &c., who now dine 
once a month, and sup every Friday. 
Letters of Boswell^ p. 186. He was 
not there this Friday. 

® At this dinner, says Boswell, 

* there were several people by no 
means of the Johnsonian School, so 
that less attention was paid to him 
than usual, which put him out of 
humour ; and upon some imaginary 
offence from me, he attacked me with 
such rudeness, that I was vexed and 
angry, because it gave those persons 
an opportunity of enlarging upon his 
supposed ferocity, and ill treatment 
of his best friends. I was so much 
hurt, and had my pride so much 
roused, that I kept away from him 
for a week; and, perhaps, might 
have kept away much longer, nay, 
gone to Scotland without seeing him 
again, had not we fortunately met 
and been reconciled.* Li/ey iii. 337. 
For the reconciliation see ib, p. 338. 

' * Lady Spencer,' said Samuel 

Monday. 



66 



To Maurititis Lowe, 



[AJ>. 1778. 



Monday. — Pray let it be Streatham, and very early ; do now 
let it be very early. For I may be carried away — just like 
Ganymede of Troy. 

I hope my master grows well, and my mistress continues bad '. 
I am afraid the ladies will be gone, and I shall say, 

She's gone, and never knew how much I lov'd her. 

Do now let me know whether you will send for me— early — 
on Monday. But take some care, or your letter will not come 
till Tuesday. j ^^^ j^,^ Lady, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

677. 
To Mauritius Lowe*. 
Sir, [London, (?) May 15,1 li%?i 

I spoke at the Exhibition to Sir Joshua and Mr. Garrick, 
and found them both cold enough. Mr. Ganick, however, 
seemed to relent, and I think you have reason to expect some- 
thing from him ; but he must be tenderly handled. I have just, 
however, received what will please and gratify you. I have sent 
it just as it came. Write to return thanks. 

Your humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 

Mr. Lowe, Hedge Lane. 



Rogers, ' recollected Johnson well, as 
she used to see him often in her girl- 
hood. Her mother, Lady Lucan, 
would say, " Nobody dines with us 
to-day ; therefore, child, we'll go and 
get Dr. Johnson." So they would 
drive to Bolt Court and bring the 
doctor home with them.' Rogers's 
TMe Talk, p. 10. 

' Ante, ii. 44, n, 7. 

■ First published in the Examiner 
for May 24, 1873, by Mr. G. Turreff 
of Aberdeen, who had been shown the 
original of this and others of John- 
son's letters by Lowe's daughter, 
Johnson's god-child. The letter is 
wrongly dated by him 1782. Garrick, 



who is mentioned, died in January 
1779. It was probably written on 
May 15, 1778, as is shown by a letter 
in the Garrick Correspondence^ ii. 
306, in which Lowe on that day 
aclmowledges the receipt from 
Garrick of ten pounds. It was very 
likely that sum which Johnson sent 
on 'just as it came.' 

A fortnight or so earlier, when 
driving with Boswell, 'Johnson 
stopped first at the bottom of Hedge 
Lane, into which he went to leave a 
letter, " with good news for a poor 
man in distress," as he told me.' 
Ldfey iii. 324. For an account of 
Lowe see Ujfe^ iii. 380 ; iv. 201. 

To 



Aotat. 68.] 



To James Elphinston. 



67 



678. 

To James Boswell. 
London, July 3, 1778. Published in the Life^ iii. 362. 

679. 

To William Strahan. 

London, July 27, 1778. Published in the Life^ iii. 364. 

680. 

Sir, To James Elphinston*. 

Having myself sufTered what you are now suffering, I well 
know the weight of your distress, how much need you have of com- 
fort, and how little comfort can be given. A loss such as yours 
lacerates the mind, and breaks the whole system of purposes and 
hopes. It leaves a dismal vacuity in life, which affords nothing 
on which the affections can fix, or to which endeavour may be 
directed. All this I have known, and it is now, in the vicissitude 
of things, your turn to know it *. 

But in the condition of mortal beings, one must lose another. 
What would be the wretchedness of life, if there was not some- 
thing always in view, some Being immutable and unfailing, to 
whose mercy man may have recourse. 'Yov irp&Tov Kivovvra 
aKCvTiTop\ 

Here we must rest. The greatest Being is the most bene- 
volent We must not grieve for the dead as men without hope^, 



' First published in Memoirs of the 
Ufe and Writings of Dr. Johnson^ 
Limdon, 1785, page 168. 

For Elphinston see ante, i. 17. 

* Eighteen months later Johnson 
wrote to his friend Dr. Lawrence who 
had just lost his wife : — ' He that out- 
lives a wife whom he has long loved, 
sees himself disjoined from the only 
mind that has the, same hopes, and 
fears, and interest; from the only 
companion with whom he has shared 
much good or evil ; and with whom 
he could set his mind at liberty, to 



retrace the past or anticipate the 
friture. The continuity of being is 
lacerated ; the settled course of senti- 
ment and action is stopped ; and life 
stands suspended and motionless, till 
it is driven by external causes into 
a new channel. But the time of 
suspense is dreadful.' Life, iii. 419. 
See also ante, i. 383. 

' **E<rri yap ri h aii Kivti rh kipov* 
fjLtva Kal t6 itpSarov klvovv aKlpfyrov 
avT6* Aristotle, Metaph, iii. 8 sub 
finem. 

^ I ThessalonianSy iv. 13. 



F a 



because 



y T- 



/ 



.ir^y/:z.v.\ A: ?r <* » 



5^4 I^Ajl ll^^!^ / , ic* A. > 'O o ^ 



68 To John Nichols. [A.D.1778. 

because we know that they are in his hands. We have indeed 
not leisure to grieve long, because we are hastening to follow 
them. Your race and mine have been interrupted by many 
obstacles, but we must humbly hope for an happy end. 

I am, Sir, 

Your most humble servant, 

July 27, 1778. Sam: Johnson. 

681. 

Sir To John Nichols *. 

You have now all Cowley, I have been drawn to a great 
length, but Cowley or Waller never had any critical examination 
before. I am very far advanced in Drydeuy who will be long 
too. The next great life I purpose to be Miltotis *. 

It will be kind if you will gather the Lives of Denkam, Butler^ 
and Waller, and bind them in half binding in a small volume, 
and let me have it to shew my Friends, as soon as may be. I 
sincerely hope the press shall stand no more. 

I am, Sir, 

Your most humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 

July 27, 1778. 
To Mr. Nichols. 

682. 

Sir, To John Nichols \ August, 1778. 

You have now the life of Dryden and you see it is very long. 
You must however have an appendix. 

' First published in the Gentle- Museum. From them I have supplied 

tnat^s Magazine for 1785, page 9. some omissions. 

This is the first of a series of letters Johnson had once thought of pub- 
written to John Nichols, printer, lishing an edition of Cowley. /^. iii.29. 
editor, and author, while the Lives of * His Life of Cowley he considered 
the Poets were going through the . as the best of the whole.' lb, iv. 38. 
press. Most of these letters were ' * Milton's Life was begun in 
published by Nichols in the Gentle- January, 1779, and finished in six 
mar^s Magazine ( 1 785, p. 9) of which weeks.* Gentleman* s Magcusiney 1785, 
he was editor. Some of them Bos- p. %n, i. 

well inserted in a note in the Life, iv. ^ First published in the Gentle- 

36. The originals are in the British man^s Magazine, 1785, page 9. 

The 



▲etat. 69.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



69 



I. The invocation to the Georgicks from Milbourne' (this 
in the small print). 

a. Dryden's remarks on Rymer, which are nearly transcribed *. 
3. Dryden's letter from Lambeth, which is promised me I 

I am> 
Sir, &c., 

[Sam: Johnson.] 

To Mr. Nichols. 

683. 

To Mrs. Thrale^. 

Dearest Madam, October 15, 1778. 

You that are among all the wits, delighting and delighted, 
have little need of entertainment from me, whom you left at 
home unregarded and unpitied, to shift in a world to which you 
have made me so much a stranger ; yet I know you will pretend 
to be angry if I do not write a letter, which, when you know the 
hand, you will perhaps lay aside to be read when you are dress- 
ing to-morrow ; and which, when you have read it, if that time 
ever comes, you will throw away into the drawer and say — stuff ! 
As to Dr. Collier's epitaph, Nollekens has had it so long, that I 
have forgotten how long. You never had it. So you may set 
the S s at defiance \ 



* 'The invocation before the 
Georgicks is here inserted from Mr. 
Milboume's version, that, according 
to his own proposal, his verses may 
be compared with those which he 
censures.' Johnson's IVarks, vii. 348. 

' These remarks were written by 
Dryden on the blank leaves of 
Rymer's Remarks an the Tragedies 
of the last Age. Johnson had had 
them copied from the original, which 
was in Garrick's possession. lb, p. 

350. 

' lb. p. 358. 

* Piozzi Letters^ ii. 20. 

5 The death of Dr. Arthur Collier 
of Doctors Commons on May 23, 
^m^ i* recorded in the Gentleman's 



Magazine for that year, p. 248. He 
had been a constant guest at the 
house of Lady Salusbury, where Mrs. 
Thrale had passed much of her girl- 
hood. Speaking of her suitors she 
says : — * It was my sport to mimic 
some, and drive others back, in order 
to make Dr. Collier laugh, who did 
not perhaps wish to see me give a 
heart away which he held completely 
in his hand, since he kindly became 
my preceptor in Latin, logic, rhetoric, 
&c.' Hayward's Piozzi^ i. 250. * The 

S s,* she says, means * the Streat- 

field,' forgetful of the final s. She 
accused Miss Streatfield * of en- 
deavouring to supplant her in the 
esteem of Mr. Thrale;' and adds 

There 



70 



To Mrs. Tkrale. 



[Aj>. 177a 



There is a print of Mrs. Montague, and I shall think myself 
very ill rewarded for my love and admiration if she does not give 
me one ' ; she will give it nobody in whom it will excite more 
respectful sentiments. But I never could get any thing from her 
but by pushing a face ; and so, if you please, you may tell her. 

I hope you let Miss S * know how safe you keep her 

book. It was too fine for a scholar's talons. I hope she gets 
books that she may handle with more freedom, and understand 
with less difficulty. Do not let her forget me. 

When I called the other day at Bumey's, I found only the 
young ones at home ; at last came the Doctor and Madam, from 
a dinner in the country, to tell how they had been robbed as they 
returned. The Doctor saved his purse, but gave them three 
guineas and some silver, of which they returned him three-and- 
sixpence, unasked, to pay the turnpike ^. 

I have sat twice to Sir Joshua, and he seems to like his own 
performance. He has projected another, in which I am to be 
busy ^ ; but we can think on it at leisure. 

Mrs. Williams is come home better, and the habitation is all 
concord and harmony; only Mr. Levet harbours discontent. 

With Dr. Lawrence's consent, I have, for the two last nights, 



' that she was very dangerous indeed 
both from her beauty and learning.' 
lb. p. 297. See also ib, ii. 329, and 
Mme. D'Arblay's Diary ^ i. 203, for 
an account of this yoimg lady. 

* Seepos^y Letter of March 1 8, 1 779, 
where Johnson says : — * I called for 
the print, and got good words.' He 
had in his dining-room, he said, 
'portraits of some very respectable 
people.' Mme. D'Arblay's iHary^ ii. 
41. In the Auction Catalogue of his 
Library the last lot is a print of Mrs. 
Montagu, framed and glazed. 

' Probably Miss Streatfield, who 
had read the first eight books of 
Homer. Johnson said of her that 
' taking away her Greek she was as 
ignorant as a butterfly.' Mme. D'Ar- 
blay's Diary ^ i. 221. 

' James Grainger, the author of 



the Sugar Cane, wrote to Dr. Percy 
on March 24, 1764 : — * I was robbed 
about 3 o'clock of the Day we parted, 
about three miles on this side St. 
Albans. Luckily he did not ask for 
my watch, and went off by telling 
me he was sorry to take our money. 
So civil are our Highwaymen. In 
France or Spain our death would 
have preceded the robbery.' Messrs. 
Sotheby's Auction Catalogue for 
November 27, 1889. Lot 75. 

^ Mr. Taylor is inclined to think 
that the former of these two pictures 
is the one which is now in the 
Common Room of Pembroke College, 
Oxford, and the latter the picture in 
which Johnson holds a book close 
to his eyes. Leslie and Taylor's 
Reynolds, ii. 223. 

taken 



▲etftt. 69.] To Thomas CadelL 7 1 

taken musk ; the first night was a worse night than common, the 
second a better, but not so much better as that I dare ascribe 
any virtue to the medicine. I took a scruple each time. 

Now Miss has seen the camp, I tliink she should write me 
some account of it. A camp, however familiarly we may speak 
of it, is one of the great scenes of human life \ War and peace 
divide the business of the world. Camps are the habitations of 
those who conquer kingdoms, or defend them. 

But what are wits, and pictures, and camps, and physick ? There 
is still a nearer concern to most of us. — Is my master come to him- 
self? Does he talk, and walk, and look about him, as if there were 
yet something in the world for which it is worth while to live ? Or 
does he yet sit and say nothing ^ ? He was mending before he 
went, and surely he has not relapsed. To grieve for evils is 
often wrong ; but it is much more wrong to grieve without them. 
All sorrow that lasts longer than its cause is morbid, and should 
be shaken off as an attack of melancholy, as the forerunner of 
a greater evil than poverty or pain. 

I never said with Dr. Dodd iSxdXilove to prattle upon paper ^ but 
I have prattled now till the paper will not hold much more than 
my good wishes, which I sincerely send you. 

I am, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

684. 

To Thomas Cadell. 

[London], October 17, 1778. 

In Messrs. Sotheby and Co.'s Auction Catalogue for May 10, 1875, 
Lot 96 is 'a letter of Johnson to Mr. Cadell, one page quarto, dated 
October 17, 1778. Apologises for the delay in returning the proof 
sheets, mentioning those of the Life of Dryden* 

It was sold for ^5 2s. 6d, 

' In the alarm of a French invasion places to learn the world in.' Letters 
the militia had been called out. to his Son, i. 276. 
Bennet Langton, as a Captain in the ' * The poor man could never sub- 
Lincolnshire Militia, was this month due his grief on account of his son's 
encamped on Warley Common. Ltfe, death.' — Baretti. The following 
iiL 365. Lord Chesterfield said that summer he had an attack of apoplexy. 
' Courts and Camps are the only Post, p. 94. 

To 



72 To Mrs. Tkrale. [a j). 1778. 



686. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 

Dearest Lady, London, October 24, 1778. 

I have written Miss such a long letter ', that I cannot tell 
how soon I shall be weary of writing another, having made no 
new discoveries since my last, either in art or nature, which may 
not be kept till we see each other ; and sure that time is not far 
off. The Duchess is a good Duchess for courting you while she 
stays, and for not staying to court you, till my courtship loses 
all its value. You are there as I would have you, except your 
humours. When my master grows well, must you take your 
turn to be melancholy ? You appear to me to be now floating 
on the springtide of prosperity ; on a tide not governed by the 
moon, but as the moon governs your heads ; on a tide therefore 
which is never likely to ebb but by your own faults. I think it 
very probably in your power to lay up eight thousand pounds 
a-year for every year to come, encreasing all the time, what 
needs not be encreased, the splendour of all external appearance^. 
And surely such a state is not to be put into yearly hazard for 
the pleasure of keeping the house full^ or the ambition of otit^ 
brewing W hi thread ^. Stop now and you are safe — stop a few 
years and you may go safely on hereafter, if to go on shall seem 
worth the while. 

I am sorry for Mrs. • • • • ; we never could make any thing of 

the lawyer, when we had him among us has got some 

vanity in her head. Vanity always oversets a lady's judgment. 
I have not told, unless it be Williams, and I do not know that I 
have told her. If Streatfield has a little kindness for me, I am 
glad. I call now and then on the Burneys, where you are at the 
top of mortality. When will you come home ? 

* Piozzi Letters, ii. 24. written to Boswell : — * Mr. Thrale 

" * Miss Thrale refused to give up dislikes the times like the rest of us.* 

that and some other letters the doctor Life^ iii. 363. 

wrote her when her mother applied * * Which was Thrale's only ambi- 

to her for them.* — Baretti. tion.'— Baretti. See ante^ ii. 23. 
' Yet on July 3 of this year he had 

Two 



AeUt. 68.] 



To Mrs, Tkrale. 



73 



Two days ago Dr. Lawrence ordered a new medicine, which I 
think to try to-night, but my hopes are not high. I mean to 
try however, and not languish without resistance. 

Young Desmoulins ^ is taken in an under something of Drury- 
lane ; he knows not, I believe, his own denomination. 

My two clerical friends, Darby and Worthington, have both 
died this month *. I have known Worthington long, and to die 
is dreadful. I believe he was a very good man. 

I am, &c.. 



Sam: Johnson. 



686. 



To Mrs. Thrale^ 

Dear Madam, October 31, 1778. 

Your letter seemed very long a-coming, and was very 
welcome at last ; do not be so long again. 

Long live Sir John Shelly ^, that lures my master to hunt. I 
hope he will soon shake off the black dog ^, and come home as 

light as a feather. And long live Mrs. G , that downs ^ my 

mistress. I hope she will come home as flexible as a rush. I 
see my wish is rather ambiguous, it is to my mistress that I wish 

flexibility. As to the imitation imputed to Mrs. G , if she 

makes any thing like a copy, her powers of imitation are very 



" He was the son of Mrs. Des- 
inoulins (anttt i. 6, n, 3), and the 
grandson of Johnson's god-father 
Dr. Swinfen. He had one famous 
day in his life. At Johnson's funeral 
he rode in the same carriage as 
Burke and Windham. See list of the 
persons at the funeral in the British 
Museum, Add, AfSS. 33,498. 

» 'October 6, 1778. Dr. William 
Worthington, sen., of Llanrhadra, 
Denbighshire, Prebendary of St. 
Asaph. The Rev. John Derby, 
Kector of Southfleet and Longfield 
in Kent He was editor of Bishop 
Pearce's posthumous works.* Gentle- 
mar^ s Magazine^ ^77% P* 495* In 
1774 Johnson and the Thrales bad 



visited Dr. Worthington at Llan- 
rhaiadr. LifSy v. 453. Derby, not 
Darby, was the name of Johnson's 
other friend. 

' Piozzi Letters^ ii. 26. 

* Ante^ ii. 44. 

' Johnson uses the same expres- 
sion ofThrale,/^^/, p. 76 ; of himself, 
posty Letter of June 28, 1783, and of 
Boswell, Life, iii. 414. Mrs. Thrale 
replied to Johnson from Brighton : — 
* My master swims now, and forgets 
the black dog.* Piozzi Letters, ii. 33. 

* See Life, iii. 335, where Johnson 
said: — * Robertson was in a mighty 
romantic humour, he talked of one 
whom he did not know ; but I downed 
him with the King of Prussia.' 

great, 



74 



To Mrs. Tkrale. 



[AJ>. 1778. 



great, for I do not remember that she ever saw me but once. If 
she copies me she will lose more credit by want of judgment 
than she will gain by quickness of apprehensicm. 

Of Mrs. B * I have no remembrance ; perhaps her voice 

is low. 

Miss • • • • is just gone from me. I told her how you took 

to them all ; but told her likewise how you took to Miss 

All poisons have their antidotes. 

Sir Joshua has finished my picture, and it seems to please 
every body, but I shall wait to see how it pleases you. 
^ Of yoiu* conditions of happiness, do not set your heart upon 
any but what Providence puts in your own power. Your debts' 
you may pay — much you may lay up. The rest you can only 
pray for. Of your daughters, three are out of the danger of 
children's distempers, the other two have hardly yet tried 
whether they can live or no. You ought not yet to count them 
among your settled possessions. 

Is it true that Mrs. D ^ is enceinte ? It will give her great 

influence. 

To-day Mrs. Williams and Mrs. Desmoulines had a scold, and 
Williams was going away, but I bid her not turn tail^ and she 
came back, and rather got the upper hand ^ 

I wish you would come back again to us all ; you will find 
nobody among your fine ladies that will love you as you are 
loved by. 

Dearest Lady, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 



* Perhaps Mrs, Byron. Posty 

p. 79. 
' See^^f/^, i. 192,11. 3. 

^ Perhaps the Mrs. D men- 
tioned ante, i. 333. 

* For the inmates of Johnson's 
house see Life^ iii. 368, 461. J. 
Cradock said that ' he once accom- 
panied Dr. Johnson and Mr.Steevens 
to Marylebone Gardens to see La 
Serva Padrona performed. Steevens, 
being quite weary of the Burletta, 



exclaimed : — " There is no plot, it is 
merely an old fellow cheated and 
deluded by his servant ; it is quite 
foolish and unnatiural." Johnson 
instantly replied : — " Sir, it is not 
unnatural ; it is a scene that is acted 
in my family every day in my life." 
This did not allude to the maid- 
servant so much as to the two dis- 
tressed ladies who were always 
quarrelling.' Nichols's Ut. Anec.^ 

ix.779- 

To 



Aetot. 68.] 



To Mrs, Thrale. 



75 



587. 
To Captain Langton. 
[London], October 31, 1778. Published in the Life^ iii. 365. 

688. 

To THE Reverend Dr. Wheeler. 
London, November 2, 1778. Published in the Life^ iii. 376. 

689. 

To THE Reverend Dr. Edwards. 
London, November 2, 1778. Published in the Life^ iii. 367. 

690. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 
Dear Madam, Nov. 9, 1778. 

The Lord Mayor has had a dismal day. — Will not this 

weather drive you home ? Perhaps you know not any body that 

will be glad to see you. I hope our well will yield water again, 

and something fuller you will find the pond; but then all the 

trees are naked, and the ground damp — but the year must go 

round. 

While you are away I take great delight in your letters, only 
when you talk so much of obligations to me, you should consider 
how much you put me into the condition of honest Joseph *. 

Young Desmoulines thinks he has got something, he knows 
not what, at Drury-lane ; his mother talks little of it. — Sure it is 
not a huntnt^} Mr. Levet, who thinks his ancient rights invaded, 
stands at bay, fierce as ten furies \ Mrs. Williams growls and 
scolds, but Poll ^ does not much flinch. Every body is in want. 



' Piozxi Letters^ ii. 28. 

' Johnson refers to Joseph Leman 
in Clarissa^ who wrote to Love- 
lace : — ' Be pleased howsomever, if 
it like yotir honner, not to call me 
hcnnest Joseph^ and honnest Joseph 
so often. For althoff I think myself 
verry honest and all that, yet I am 
touched a littel, for fear I should not 
do the quite right thing ; and too 
besides your honner has such a 



fessessious way with you, as that I 
hardly know whether you are in jest 
or earnest, when your honner calls 
me honnest so often.' Clarissa^ ed. 
18 10, ii. 370. 

^ A hoax. Not in Johnson's Dic- 
tionary, 

* Paradise Lost, ii. 671. 

^ A Miss Carmichael whom he had 
taken in. Life, iii. 222, 368. 

I shall 



76 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A.D. 1778. 



I shall be glad to see Streatham again, but I can find no reason 

for going to Brighthelmstone, but that of seeing my master and 

you three days sooner. 

I am, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

691. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 

Dearest Madam, Nov. 14, 1778. 

Then I really think I shall be very glad to see you all safe 
at home. I shall easily forgive my master his long stay, if he 
leaves the dog behind him. We will watch, as well as we can, 
that the dog shall never be let in again, for when he comes the 
first thing he does is to worry my master. This time he gnawed 
him to the bone. Content, said Rider's almanack^, makes a 
man richer than the Indies. But surely he that has the Indies 
in his possession, may without very much philosophy make him- 
self content. So much for my master and his dog, a vile one it 
is, but I hope if he is not hanged he is drowned ; with another 
lusty shake he will pick my master's heart out. 

I have begun to take valerian ; the two last nights I took an 
ounce each night — a very loathsome quantity. Dr. Lawrence 
talked of a decoction, but I say, all or nothing. The first night 
I thought myself better, but the next it did me no good. 

Young Desmoulines says, he is settled at a weekly pay of 
twenty-five shillings, about forty pounds a-year ^ Mr. Macbean 



* Piozzi Letters^ ii. 37. 

' Rider's British Merlin began in 
1655 and ended in 1840. A few 
months after the date of Johnson's 
letter Lord North brought in a Bill 
to vest the sole right of printing 
Almanacks in the two Universities of 
Oxford and Cambridge and the Com- 
pany of Stationers. Their supposed 
exclusive patent had been recently 
certified void by the Court of Common 
Pleas. Erskine, speaking at the Bar 
of the House against the Bill, said : — 
* It is notorious that the Universities 
sell their right to the Stationers' 
Company, who make a scandalous 



job of the bargain, and, to increase 
the sale among the vulgar, publish 
under the auspices of religion and 
learning, the most senseless ab- 
surdities. I should have been glad to 
cite some sentences from the 113th 
edition of Poor Robin's Almanack^ 
published under the revision of the 
Archbishop of Canterbury and the 
Bishop of London. But I know no 
house — but a brothel — that could 
suffer the quotation.* The Bill was 
lost. Pari, Hist., xx. 608. 

^ No doubt Drury Lane Theatre at 
which he was engaged was closed 
many weeks each year. 

has 



AeUt. 69.] 



To Mrs. Tkrale. 



77 



has no business '. We have tolerable concord at home, but no 
love. Williams hates every body. Levet hates Desmoulines, 
and does not love Williams. Desmoulines hates them both. 
Poll loves none of them. 

Dr. Bumey had the luck to go to Oxford the only week in the 
year when the library is shut up. He was however very kindly 
treated ; as one man is translating Arabick, and another Welsh, 
for his service *. Murphy told me that you wrote to him about 
Evelina. Francis wants to read it ^. 



' Ante, i. 3i9i and post, p. 8i. 

' Bumey was seeking materials for 
a History of Music, The two intro- 
ductions which Johnson gave him 
were dated November 2. Life, iii. 
366. By the Statutes of 1768 the 
Library was opened every day but 
Sundays, Christmas Day, and the 
other great festivals of the Church, 
and the days appointed for the in- 
spection of the Library by the 
Curators. At this period the inspec- 
tion was held once a year— on 
November 8. Corpus Statutorum 
Universitatis OxoniensiSy lyd^. Ap- 
pendix, pp. 10, 18. The custom had 
apparently arisen of closing the Li- 
brary for a week beforehand for the 
sake of preparing for the great day. 
This custom was sanctioned by the 
Statutes of 181 3. At the present 
time it is closed for cleaning the first 
week of October, and for inspection 
on November 7 and 8; for Good 
Friday and Easter Eve, Ascension 
Day, Commemoration Day, and 
from Christmas Day to January i. 
'In 1 713 every stranger admitted to 
read in the Library had to pay nine 
shillings in fees.' Macray's Annals 
of the Bodleian, ed. 1890, p. 185. 
Apparently the fees were the same 
at the time of Dr. Bumey's visit. 
The Rev. John Price was Librarian 
at this time. In 1787 Dr. Beddoes, 
the Reader in Chemistry, in a 
Memorial to the Curators charged 



him with 'discouraging readers by 
neglect and incivility.* The copy of 
Cook's Voyages, which had been pre- 
sented by the King, he had lent to 
the Rector of Lincoln College, Helling 
him that the longer he kept it the 
better, "for if it was known to be in 
the Library he should be perpetually 
plagued with enquiries after it." ' lb, 
p. 269. How much the Library was 
neglected in those days is shown by 
the fact that the present year (1891) 
it possesses for the first time a copy 
of Johnson's edition of the English 
Poets ; neither has it an earlier edition 
of the Lives than the one of 1805. 

Dr. RadclifTe's Library was in a 
state of even greater neglect. On the 
death of Johnson's friend, Dr. Kenni- 
cott. Canon of Christ Church and 
Radclivian Librarian, a writer in the 
Gentleman's Magazine for 1783 (p. 
718) says: — * There are several chests 
of books unopened. The late learned 
Orientalist in this respect only trod 
in the steps of his predecessor, but it 
is high time a different track should 
be pursued. If the librarianship 
must be given to a person too old or 
too easy for the employment, some- 
thing decent might be spared out of 
near ;^400 a year to a young man of 
genius and learning to act as deputy, 
and open to public inspection one of 
the first collections in the universe.* 

' Miss BuiTie/s Evelina had been 
published in January of this year. 

And 



78 



To Mrs. Tkrale. 



[A.D. 1778. 



And on the 26th Bumey is to bring me. Pray why so ? Is it 
not as fit that I should bring Bumey ' ? My master is in his old 
lunes % and so am I. Well, I do not much care how it is, and 
yet — at it again. 

Pray make my compliments to Mr. Scrase I He has many 
things which I wish to have, his knowledge of business and of 
the law. He has likewise a great chair \ Such an one my 
Master talked of getting ; but that vile black dog 

Mrs. Queeney might write to me, and do herself no harm ; she 
will n^lect me till I shall take to Susy^, and then Queeney 
may break her heart, and who can be blamed? I am sure I 
stuck to Queeney as long as I could. 

Does not Master talk how full his canal ^ will be when he comes 
home. Now or never. I know not how the soil was laid ; if it 
slopes towards the canal, it may pour in a great deal of water, 
but I suspect it slopes the wrong way. 

This is but the fourteenth day ; there are twelve more to the 
twenty-sixth. Did you ever hear of notching a stick ? however 
we have it in Horace — truditur dies die'' ; as twelve days have 
gone, twelve days will come. 

Hector of Birmingham just looked in at me. He is come to 
his only niece, who is ill of a cancer ; I believe with very little 
hope, for it is knotted in two places. 

I think at least I grow no worse ; perhaps valerian may make 
me better. Let me have your prayers. 

I am, dearest Lady, 

Yours, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 



Mme. D*Arblay's Diary^ i. 37. 
Francis was Johnson's black ser- 
vant. 

' * See how touchy was Johnson ! 
He thought himself degraded by the 
phrase Bumey shall bring you here 
on the 26th: Baretti. 

' 'Why, woman, your husband is 
in his old lunes again.' Merry Wives 
of Windsor y Act iv. sc. 2. 

^ Ante^ i. 395. 

^ Johnson with his asthma would 



often find comfort in a great chair. 

^ ' I was always a Susy when 
nobody else was a Susy.' Ante^ ii. 

44. 
^ Caned was generally used of an 

ornamental piece of water. What we 

now call a canal was at this time 

often called a navigation^ whence 

comes navvy, 

^ Horace. 2 Odesrmxi, 15. 

' Day presses on the heels of day.' 

FRANas. 

To 



A0tot. 09.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



79 



692. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 

Dear Madam, Nov. 21, 1778. 

I will write to you once more before you come away; but — 
nil mihi rescribas * — I hope soon to see you. Barney and I have 
settled it ; and I will not take a post-chaise, merely to shew my 
independence. 

Now the dog is drowned ^ I shall see both you and my master 
just as you are used to be, and with your being as you have 
been, your friends may very reasonably be satisfied. — Only, be 
better if you can. 

Return my thanks, if you please, to Queeney for her letter. I 
do not yet design to leave her for Susy ; but how near is the 
time when she will leave me, and leave me to Susy, or any body 
else that will pick me up. 

Currit enim ferox 

iEtas, et illi, quos tibi demserit, 
Apponet annos. * 

Queeney, whom you watched while I held her, will soon think 
our care of her very superfluous. 

Miss Biron, and, I suppose, Mrs. Biron, is gone ^. You are by 
this time left alone to wander over the Steine ^ and listen to the 
waves. — This is but a dull life. Come away and be busy, and 
count your poultry, and look into your dairy, and at leisure 
hours learn what revolutions have happened at Streatham. 

I believe I told you that Jack Desmoulines is rated upon the 
book at Drury-lane five-and-twenty shillings a-week. 



3 

4 



Piozzt LetterSy ii. 40. 
'Nil mihi rescribas; attamen 
ipse veni.' 

Ovid. Heroidesy i. 2. 
Anie^ ii. 73, n. 5. 
Horace. 2 Odes, v. 13. 
'Time to her shall count each 

day 
Which from you it takes away.* 

Francis. 
* In the Letter of November 2, 
I779> Johnson correctly writes these 
ladies' name Byron. Mrs. Byron 



was the wife of Admiral Byron and 
grandmother of the poet. Miss 
Byron was her daughter Augusta. 
See Mme. D'Arbla/s Diary , i. 331, 
383, and post, Letters of November 4, 
1779, ^^^ November 12, 1781. 

^ Mrs. Thrale writingfrom Brighton 
on July 19, 1780, says : — ' My master 
is gone out riding, and we are to 
drink tea with Lady Rothes ; after 
which the Steyne hours begin, and 
we cluster round Thomas's shop.* 
Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, i. 417. 

Baretti 



8o 



To John Nichols. 



[A.D. 1778. 



Baretti has told his musical scheme to B 



and B- 



wUl neither grant the question nor deny. He is of opinion, that 
if it does not fail it will succeed, but if it does not succeed he 
conceives it must fail. 

It is good to speak dubiously about futurity. It is likewise 
not amiss to hope. 

Did I ever tell you that • • » • was married ? It so fell out, 
that * • • • fell in love with a girl whose fortune was so small 
that he perhaps could not mention it to his father ; but it 
happened likewise, by the lottery of love, that the father liked 

Such 



• • 



her so well, as himself to recommend her to • • 
coincidence is rare. 

Come now, do come home as fast as you can : 

Come with a whoop, come with a call, 
Come with a good will, or come not at all. 

I am, &:c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

593. 

To James Boswell. 
[London], November 21, 1778. Published in the Life^ iii. 368. 



694. 

To John Nichols*. 

Mr. Johnson will hope for Mr. Nichols' company to tea about 
six this afternoon, to talk of the index, and settle the terms. 

Monday. 



* *Bumey. The musical scheme 
was the Carmen Secularey that 
brought me ^^150 in three nights, 
and three times as much to Philidor, 
whom I got to set it to music. It 
would have benefited us both, if 
Philidor had not proved a scoundrel, 
greatly more than those sums.' 
Baretti. *The Carmen Seculare 
of Horace had this year been set to 
musick, and performed as a pub- 



lick entertainment in London, for the 
joint benefit of Monsieur Philidor 
and Signor Baretti.' Life^ iii. 373. 
Philidor was famous as a chess- 
player. He came to England in 
1 77 1 with an introduction to Dr. 
Bumey from Diderot. The Early 
Diary of Frances Burney^ i. 116. 

* First published in the Gentle* 
man's Magazine for 1785, p. 9. 

To 



AetAt. ee.] To the Honourable Thomas Fitzmaurice. 8 1 



Sir, 



695. 



To John Nichols '. 



I am very well contented that the Index is settled, for 
though the price is low, it is not penurious. 

Mr. Macbean having been for some time out of business, is in 
some little perplexities from which twelve guineas will set him 
free. This, we hope, you will advance, and during the continuance 
of the work subject to your inspection he desires a weekly pay- 
ment of sixteen shillings, the rest to remain till it is completed. 

I am, Sir, 

Your most humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 

Nov. 26, 1778. 

696. 



Sir, 



To THE Honourable Thomas Fitzmaurice'. 



Good wishes are the necessary consequence of friendship, 
and of my good wishes, I hope, you make no doubt. But now 



' First published in the Gentle-' 
man's Magazine for 1785, part i. 
page 9. 

Macbean made a useful Index to 
the English Poets, giving what he 
calls ' a synoptical view of them ' in 
several particulars. It fills the last 
two volumes of the Collection. In 
the Pre&ce to the Index in the edition 
of 1790 it is stated that the original 
plan had received Johnson's sanction. 
For Macbean see anie^ i* 319* 

' From the original in the posses- 
sion of the Reverend Canon Moor, 
St. Clement's near Truro. 

There is no address to this Letter ; 
1 have however no doubt that it was 
written to the Hon. Thomas Fitzmau- 
rice, the younger brother of the Earl 
ofShelbume. On December 21, 1777, 
he had married Mary, afterwards 
Countess of Orkney in her own right ; 

VOL. II. G 



their only son was bom on October 
2, 1778. Ann, Reg,y 1778, i. 218, 
and Burke's Peerage under Lans- 
DOWNE and Orkney. Lady Shel- 
bume was the Dowager Lady, who 
died in December, 1780. Horace 
Walpole writes : — * How has she left 
her fortune, once so great, but which 
with superabundant cunning she had 
rendered almost as crazy as she was 
latterly?' Letters, wW. ^7 S* The first 
wife of the Earl had died on January 
5, 1771, 6e married his second wife 
in 1 779. Gentleman* s Magazine^ 1 77 1 , 
p. 47, and Burke's Peerage. Fitz- 
maurice was living in Lleweney Hall, 
which, according to Mrs. Piozzi, * had 
been in possession of the Salusburys 
a thousand years.' Zz/^jV. 435. He 
invited Johnson to pass part of the 
summer of 1 780 with him there. Post, 
Letter of May 7, 1780. 

you 



82 To Mrs. Aston. [ji.D.i77a 

you have a son I know not well what more to wish you except 
more sons, and a few daughters ; the sons to be all brave and 
the daughters all beautiful, and both sons and daughters to be 
wise and good. 

Now you have a son what can you want ? You have a mother 
to rejoice in her grandson, and a Lady to partake in all your 
felicities. With Lady Shelburn I once had the honour of con- 
versing, and entreat you, Sir, to let her know that I have not 
forgotten it ; to your Lady I am a stranger, but who can doubt 
the excellence of her, who \sic\ you have chosen, and who has 
chosen you ? 

If encrease of happiness cannot.be expected it still remains to 
wish the continuance, and very long it will continue, if there be 
any power in the desires of. 

Sir, 
Your most humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 

Dec. 7, 1778. 

697. 

To John Nichols. 

[London], December, 1778. Published in the Lifty iv. 36, «. 4. 

698. 

To THE Reverend John Hussey. 
[London], December 29, 1778. Published in the Ldfe^ iiL 369. 

699. 

_ , , To Mrs. Aston ^ 

Dear Madam, 

Now the new year is come of which I wish you and dear 

Mrs. Gastrel many and many returns, it is fit that I give you 

some account of the year past. In the beginning of it I had 

difficulty of breathing, and other ilness \sic\^ from which however 

I by degrees recovered and from which I am now tolerably free. 

In the spring and summer I flattered myself that I should come 

' First published in Croker's Bos- from the original in Pembroke Col- 
well^ page 622. Corrected by me lege Library. 

to 



Aet»t.e9.] To Mrs. Porter. 83 

to Lichfield, and forebore to write till I could tell of my inten- 
tions with some certainty, and, one thing or other making the 
journey always improper, as I did not come, I omitted to write, 
till at last I grew afraid of hearing ill news. But the other day 
Mr. Prujean ' called^ and left word that you, dear Madam, are 
grown better, I know not when I heard any thing that pleased 
me so much. I shall now long more and more to see Lichfield, 
and partake the happiness of your recovery. 

Now you begin to mend, you have great encouragement to 
take care of yourself, do not omit any thing that can conduce to 
your health, and when I come I shall hope to enjoy with you and 
dearest Mrs. Gastrel many pleasing hours. Do not be angry at 
my long omission to write, but let me hear how you both do, for 
you will write to nobody to whom your welfare will give more 

pleasure than to. 

Dearest Madam, 

Your most humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 

London, Bolt-court, Fleet-street. 
Jan. 2, 1779. 

600. 
To Mrs. Porter*. 

Dearest Love, Bolt Court, Fleet Street, Jan. 2, 1779. 

Though I have so long omitted to write, I will omit it no 
longer. I hope the new year finds you not worse than you have 
formerly been ; and I wish that many years may pass over you 
without bringing either pain or discontent. For my part, I think 
my health, though not good, yet rather better than when I left you. 

My purpose was to have paid you my annual visit in the 
summer, but it happened otherwise, not by any journey another 
way, for I have never been many miles from London, but by such 
hindrances as it is hard to bring to any account 

Do not follow my bad example, but write to me soon again, 
and let me know of you what you have to tell ; I hope it is all 
good. 

' * He married the youngest of the ' First published in Croker's Bos- 

Misses Aston.' Crorer. well^ page 622. 

G 2 Please 



84 



To Miss Reynolds. 



[A.D. 1770. 



Please to make my compliments to Mrs. Cobb, Mrs. Adey, 
and Miss Adey, and all the ladies and gentlemen that frequent 
your mansion. 

If you want any books, or any thing else that I can send you, 

let me know. 

I am, dear Madam, 

Your most humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 

601. 

To Mrs. Garrick '. 

Dr. Johnson sends most respectful condolence to Mrs. Garrick, 
and wishes that any endeavour of his could enable her \sic\ 
support a loss which the world cannot repair. 

Feb. 2, 1779. 

602. 

To Miss Reynolds'. 

Dearest Madam, [Streatham], Feb. 15, 1779. 

I have never deserved to be treated as you treat me. When 



' From the original in the pos- 
session of Mr. Edward Ford, Old 
Park, Enfield. Garrick died on 
January 20. Johnson's note was 
written the day after the funeral. 
*I saw,' writes Cumberland, *old 
Samuel Johnson standing beside 
Garrick's grave, at the foot of Shake- 
speare's monument, and bathed in 
tears.' Cumberland's Memoirs^ ii. 
210. 'Garrick's widow is buried in 
the same grave. She survived him 
forty-three years — "a little bowed- 
down old woman, who went about 
leaning on a gold-headed cane, 
dressed in deep widow's mourning, 
and always talking of her dear 
Davy." \Pen and Ink Sketches^ 
1864).' Stanley's Westminster Abbey ^ 
ed. 1868, p. 305. 

Captain Alfred C. Christopher of 
the Seaforth Highlanders has given 
me the following note made by his 



ancestor. Sir Henry Wilmot Seton, 
who died in 1848. ' I saw Mrs. Gar- 
rick on her ninetieth birthday, and 
by her express permission kissed 
her. Her words, pronounced with 
all the grace and dignity of a Royal 
Command, were " Kiss me." ' 

' First published in Croker*s Bos* 
welly page 623. 

This letter probably refers to that 
' small degree of coolness ' which for 
some time existed between Miss 
RcynolHs and her brother. *Dr. 
Johnson,' says Northcote, 'partici- 
pated with her in her troubles, and 
offered to write a letter himself, 
which when copied should pass as 
her own. It began thus : — " I am 
well aware that complaints are 
always odious, but complain I must." 
She saw that the intended deception 
would no more have passed with Sir 
Joshua than if Johnson had attired 

you 



Aetat. 69.] 



To Mrs. Aston. 



85 



you employed me before, I undertook your affair and succeeded, 

but then I succeeded by choosing a proper time, and a proper 

time I will try to choose again. 

I have about a week's work to do, and then I shall come to 

live in town, and will first wait on you in Dover-street '. You 

are not to think that I neglect you, for your nieces * will tell you 

how rarely they have seen me. I will wait on you as soon as 

I can, and yet you must resolve to talk things over without 

anger, and you must leave me to catch opportunities; and be 

assured, dearest dear, that I should have very little enjoyment of 

that day in which I had neglected any opportunity of doing 

good to you. 

I am, dearest Madam, 

Your humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 

603. 

To John Nichols. 

[London], March i, 1779. Published in the Life^ iv. 36, n. 4. 



604. 

To Mrs. Aston ^ 
Dear Madam, 
Mrs. Gastrell and You are very often in my thoughts, though 



himself in her cap and gown, and 
endeavoured to impose his identical 
person upon him as his sister.' 
Northcote's Reynolds^ i. 203. Rey- 
nolds had had built for himself 'a 
chariot, on the panels of which were 
painted the seasons of the year in 
allegorical figures. The wheels were 
ornamented with carved foliage and 
gilding. He insisted on it that his 
sister should go out with it as much 
as possible, and let it be seen in the 
streets to make a show, which she 
was much averse to, being a person 
of great shyness of disposition. This 
anecdote, Northcote says, 'he had 
from her own mouth.' Leslie and 
Taylor's Reytwlds^ i. 183. See also 



ib, p. 91, ff. 2, and Memoirs of Dr. 
Burneyy i. 331. 

' Miss Reynolds lodged in the 
house of Hoole, the translator of 
Ariosto. Taylor's Reynolds^ i. 91, ;i. 
2. Perhaps he lived in Dover Street. 

' *■ Sir Joshua's nieces, the Miss 
Pahners, the elder afterwards Mar- 
chioness of Thomond, the younger 
Mrs. Gwatkin, lived with him oc- 
casionally, and one of them after- 
wards habitually.' Memoirs of Dr, 
Bumey^ i. 332. 

^ First published in Croker's Bos- 
welly page 623. Corrected by me 
from the original in Pembroke Col- 
lege Library. 

I do 



86 



To Mrs, ParUr, 



[AJ>. 1779. 



I do not write so often as miglit be expected firom so much love 
and 90 oioch respect. I please myself with thinking that I shall 
see you again, and shall find \'ou better. But futurity is uncer- 
tain, poor David' had doubtless many futurities in his head, 
which death has intercepted a death. I bdieve, totally unex- 
pected ; he did not in his last hour seem to think his Life in 
danger. 

My old complaints hang hea\y on me, and my nights are very 
uncomfortable and unquiet; and sleepless nights make heavy 
days. I think to go to my Ph3rsician, and try what can be done. 
For why should not I grow better as well as you? 

Now you are better, pray, dearest Madam, take care of your- 
self. I hope to come this Summer and watch you. It will be 
a very pleasant journey if I can find you and dear Mrs. Gastrel 
well I sent you two barels \sic\ of 0)rsters. If you would wish 
for more, please to send your commands to. 

Madam, 

Your most humble servant, 

Bolt-court, March 4, 1779- SAM : JOHNSON. 

eo6. 

To Mrs. Porter*. 
My dear Love, Bolt Court, Fleet Street, March 4, 1779. 

Since I heard from you, I sent you a little print, and two 
barrels of oysters, and I shall have some little books to send you 
soon ^. I have seen Mr. Pearson ^, and am pleased to find that he 
has got a living. I was hurried when he was with me, but had 
time to hear that my friends were all well. 



' David Garrick. * He had,' writes 
Davies, 'so little apprehension of 
death being so near that, I am well 
informed, he said to the servant who 
gave him a draught a day or two 
before he died, " Well, Tom, I shall 
do very well yet, and make you 
amends for all this trouble.'' ' Davies's 
JJ/e 0/ Garricky ii. 353. 

• First published in Croker's Bos- 
weiiy page 623. 

^ No doubt the first four volumes 



of the Lives of the Poets which were 
published this spring. 

* The Rev. John B. Pearson was 
Perpetual Curate of St. Michael's 
Church from 1774 to 1782. Har- 
wood's Uchfieldy p. 517. He must 
have received this year some other 
preferment. He was Lucy Porter's 
legatee. From his widow Mr. Croker 
received copies of many of Johnson's 
letters to his step-daughter. Croker's 
Boswelly Preface, p. xiv. 

Poor 



A0toi.e9.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



87 



Poor Mrs. Adey * was, I think, a good woman, and therefore 
her death is less to be lamented ; but it is not pleasant to think 
how uncertain it is, that, when friends part, they will ever meet 
again. My old complaint of flatulence, and tight and short 
breath, oppress me heavily. My nights are very restless. I think 
of consulting the doctor to-morrow. 

This has been a mild winter, for which I hope you have been 
the better. Take what care you can of yourself, and do not 
forget to drink '. I was somehow or other hindered from coming 
into the country last summer, but I think of coming this year. 

I am, dear love, 

Your most humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 

606. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 

[Bolt Court], March 10, 1779- 

And so, dear Madam, it is a mumm * to see who will speak 
first. I will come to see you on Saturday, only let me know 
whether I must come to the Borough, or am to be taken up 
here. 

Baretti's golden dream is now but silver. He is of my mind ; 
he says, there is no money for diversions ^ But we make another 
onset on Friday, and this is to be the last time this season. 

I got my Lives, not yet quite printed, put neatly together, 
and sent them to the King ; what he says of them I know not. 
If the King is a Whig, he will not like them ; but is any king 
a Whig ^? 



' Anie^ i. 139. 

* Ante^ i. 368, n. 1. 

' PioMzi Letters^ ii. 42. 

* This, like * a humm ' of atUe^ 
iL 75, b ' a cant word ' not in John- 
son's Dictionary, 

' See anUy ii. 80, «.r i. There 
was great distress owing to the 
heavy taxation caused by the Ameri- 
can War. Horace Walpole wrote on 
February 25 :— * It was but yester- 
day Lord North could tell the House 



he had got the money on the loan, 
and is happy to get it under eight 
per cent.* Letters^ vii. 181. 

* It was the first four of the ten 
volumes which Johnson sent to the 
King. Horace Walpole says that 
four years earlier George III *had 
sent for Johnson's Journey to the 
Western Islands in MS., and then 
wondering said, " I protest, Johnson 
seems to be a Papist and a Jaco- 
bite ! " * Letters^ vi. 1 79. 

So 



88 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A.D. 1779. 



So far had I gone, when in came Mr. Thrale, who will have the 

honour of bringing it 

I am, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

607. 

To James Boswell. 
[London], March 13, 1779. Published in the Life^ iii. 372. 



608. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 
Dear Madam, March 18, 1779. 

There is some comfort in writing, when such praise is to be 

had-. Plato is a multitude '. 

On Monday I came late to Mrs. Yesey^. Mrs. Montague was 

there ; I called for the print *, and got good words. The evening 

was not brilliant, but I had thanks for my company. The night 

was troublesome. On Tuesday I fasted, and went to the Doctor; 

he ordered bleeding. On Wednesday I had the teapot, fasted, 

and was blooded. Wednesday night was better. To-day I have 

dined at Mr. Strahan's at Islington ^, with his new wife. To-night 



' Piozzi Letters^ ii, 43. 

» Antey i. 374. 

^ Hannah More, in 1783 (Memoirs^ 
i. 286), describes * Mrs. Vesey*s plea- 
sant parties. It is a select society 
which meets at her house every other 
Tuesday, on the day on which the 
Turk's Head Club dine together. In 
the evening they all meet at Mrs. 
Vese/s, with the addition of such 
other company as it is difficult to find 
elsewhere.' Miss More addressed to 
her The Bos Bleu which begins : — 

* Vesey ! of verse the judge and 

friend. 
Awhile my idle strain attend.' 
See U/et iii. 424, for an account of 
the brilliant company which one 
evening at her house gathered four 
or five deep round Johnson's chair. 



* Antey ii. 70. 

* The Rev. George Strahan, Vicar 
of Islington {antey i. 95). ' His house 
afforded Johnson an agreeable change 
of place and fresh air.' Li/ey iv. 416. 
Lamb, in a Sonnet written seventeen 
years later, says : — 

' I turn my back on thy detested 

walls. 
Proud City, and thy sons I leave 

behind. 

* * * * 

I pass not thee so lightly, humble 
spire. 

That mindest me of many a plea- 
sure gone, 

Of merriest days, of Love and 
Islington, 

Kindling anew the flames of past 
desire ; 

there 



ee.] 



To Thomas Cadell. 



89 



there will be opium. To-morrow the teapot. Then heigh for 
Saturday. I wish the Doctor would bleed me again. Yet every- 
body that I meet says that I look better than when I was last 

met. 

I am, dearest Lady, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

609. 



Sir, 



To Thomas Cadell'. 



The Duty of Man is not the right. Nelson is bound in 
Sheepskin, a thing I never saw before. I was bred a Bookseller, 
and have not forgotten my trade '. 

Do not let us teize one another about books. That they are 
lent about I suppose is true, but it must be principally by those 
that have bought them, which would have been done much less, 
if you had united every writer's life to his works, for then the 
borrower might have carried away near twenty volumes, whereas 
he now takes but four. I will venture to say that of those which 
I have given very few are lent. But be that as it may, you must 
supply me with what I think it proper to distribute among my 
friends ^. 



And I shall muse on thee, slow 
journeying on. 

To the green plains of pleasant 

Hertfordshire.' 
Ainger's Litters of Charles Lamb^ 
i. 4. See also ib. ii. 82. 

The Old Vicarage was pulled 
down about 1885 ; its site is occupied 
by the premises of the Metropolitan 
Fire Brigade. The Academy^ Jan. 
5, 1889, p. 2. 

' From the original in the posses- 
sion of Messrs. Puttick and Simpson, 
47 Leicester Square, London. 

For Thomas Cadell see ante^ ii. 61, 
n, I, and Ufe^ ii. 425, n, 2. 

' 'Nelson' is no doubt Robert 
Nelson's Festivals and Fasts. 
Johnson, in the two years which he 
spent at home after he left school 



and before he went to Oxford, was 
partly employed in his father's shop. 
* I have heard him say,' writes Haw- 
kins, ' that he was able to bind a 
book.' Lifey i. 56, n, 2. It was said 
in 1 819 that 'books of his binding 
are still extant in Lichfield.' Murray's 
Johnsontanay p. 465. 

^ CadeU, it seems, had complained 
that the copies off the first four 
volumes of the Lives of the Poets 
which Johnson had given to his 
friends had been lent about, and so 
the sale had been hindered. John- 
son replies, * had you not printed the 
Lives separately the borrowers — who 
borrowed mostly from those who 
bought the books — must have carried 
away near twenty volumes. This 
would have rendered borrowing 

Let 



daaki myaKif oat well 






La _ 
3ifgrr, [4nnt 2tiu rr-u^. ?' ihiiwrt in dK Z^ iiL jgt. 



Ta r«2ffir Skuacn:^ 



T!ie daceaf^dds f^tw. in. vakii Jaiaiaaii iiM'Tiilffiig ffugfwVs LedxzSy 

aim Ae qcgnaL but not iiL TWmw.iT 



To TSK RxvsKsaD JOHIff Weslk7» 
[Loiu^oa^ Misiv ^ K7T9» Ptrfriisftifd in. cfie Z^ HL 594. 



To Mbs. Asiqs^ 

Dear Uadam, May 4^17791 

When I seat yoa the Etdc boQks% I was not sore that 3rou 
were weQ enon^ to take the trooble of readixxg tihem, but have 
lately heard from Mr. Greeves that yoo are much recoverecL 
I hope yoa will gain more and more strco^th, and five many and 
many yearSy and I diall come ^ain to StowhiO, and live as 
I used to do, with yoa and dear Sirs. GastreQ. 



mtKh more incooTenient.' Coo- meHy page 631, where it is stated 
%uierinf(*hh exu^ardixaLrj modexa- that die original is in Pembroke 



tion * in the payment which he had College. Probably the statement 

demnndtd for writing the Liv^s was incorrect ; at all events the 

(/J/£t ill, illfft, i;, this complaint of Letter is not there now. 

CiuieWn it pitiful, ' No doobt the first four volumes 

' Firtt published tn Croker's Boi- of the Lives, 

I am 



A0tot. 69.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



91 



I am not well: my nights are very troublesome, and my 
breath is short; but I know not that it grows much worse. 
I wish to see you. Mrs. Harvey ' has just sent to me to dine 
with her, and I have promised to wait on her to-morrow. 

Mr. Green comes home loaded with curiosities *, and will be 
able to give his friends new entertainment. When I come, it will 
be great entertainment to me if I can find you and Mrs. Gastrell 
well, and willing to receive me. 

I am. 

Dearest Madam, &:c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

614. 
To Mrs. Porter. 
[London], May 4, 1779. Published in the Ufe^ iii. 393. 



616. 

To Mrs. Thrale ^ 

Dear Madam, May 20, 1779. 

The vicissitudes of things, and the eddies of life, are now 
carrying you southward, and me northward*. When shall we 
meet again ? 

I must beg of you to send Mr. Watson's papers to my house, 
directed for him, and sealed up. I know not whether he does 
not think himself in danger of piracy ^ 

Take care that Susy sees all that Sophy has seen, that she may 
tell her travels, and give them a taste of the world. And take 



' Most likely Mrs. Hervey, Mrs. 
Aston's sister. Ante^ i. 182. 

' For his Museum at Lichfield. 

' PtoMMt Lexers, ii. 44. 

^ He was going to Lichfield and 
Ashbourne, she to Brighton. Miss 
Biuney wrote from that town on May 
26: — *Mr., Mrs., Miss Thrale, and 
Miss Susan Thrale and I travelled 
in a coach with four horses, and 
two of the servants in a chaise, be- 
sides two men on horseback. Mr. 



Thrale*s house is in West Street, 
which is the Court end of the town.' 
Mme. D'Arblay*s Diary, i. 209. 

'Mr. Watson was probably Pro- 
fessor Watson of Aberdeen, whose 
History of Philip II Johnson had 
offered to revise. Antey i. 412. 
The last volume was published this 
year. The piracy which was feared 
was, I suppose, that of piratical pub- 
lishers, such as those of Dublin. 

care, 



92 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A.D. 1779. 



care, and write to me very often, till we meet again ; and keep 
Master in good thoughts of me. Vale. 



Sam: Johnson. 



616. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 

Madam, Lichfield, May 29, 1779. 

I have now been here a week, and will try to give you my 
journal, or such parts of it as are fit in my mind for com- 
munication. 

On Friday. — We set out about twelve, and lay at Daventry *. 

On Saturday. — We dined with Mr. Rann at Coventry. He 
intercepted us at the town's end. I saw Tom Johnson ^, who had 
hardly life to know that I was with him. I hear he is since 
dead. In the evening I came to Lucy, and walked to Stowhill ; 
Mrs. Aston was gone or going to bed ; I did not see her. 

Sunday. — ^After dinner I went to Stowhill, and was very 
kindly received. At night I saw my old friend Brodhurst * — you 
know him — ^the play-fellow of my infancy, and gave him a 
guinea. 

Monday. — Dr. Taylor came, and we went with Mrs. Cobb to 
Greenhill Bower. I had not seen it perhaps for fifty years. It 
is much degenerated^. Every thing grows old. Taylor is to 
fetch me next Saturday. 



' Piozzi Letters^ ii. 45. 

' Seventy-two miles from London. 
Falstaff with his soldiers had taken 
the same road, when the one shirt in 
all his company was 'stolen from 
my host at Saint Alban's, or the 
red-nose innkeeper of Daventry.' 
I Henry IV, Act iv. sc 2. He would 
not go with his men the rest of 
the road. Til not march through 
Coventry with them, that's flat.* 
Coventry was 19 miles from Daven- 
try, and Lichfield 25} miles from 
Coventry. 

' Ante, i. 154. 

^ I find no other mention of him. 



^ ' A Court is held by the Bailifiis 
on Whit Monday in the Guild Hall, 
which is immediately adjourned to 
an open mount called Green Hill 
(at which time also a Court Leet is 
held), when the names of all the 
householders of the twenty-one 
wards of the City are called over, as 
owing suit and service to this Court. 
It was anciently called The Court of 
Array, or View of Men and Arms. 
Processions are made by the Con- 
stables and Dozeners [anUy i. 162, 
n, 3] of each ward, who anciently 
bore tutelary saints, but which are 
now converted into garlands or em- 
Mr. Green 



Aetat. ee.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



93 



Mr. Green came to see us, and I ordered some physick. 

Tuesday. — Physick, and a little company. I dined, I think, 
with Lucy both Monday and Tuesday. 

Wednesday. | I had a few visits, from Peter Garrick ^ among 

Thursday. ) the rest, and dined at Stowhill. My breath 
very short. 

Friday. — I dined at Stowhill. I have taken physick four days 
together. 

Saturday. — Mrs. Aston took me out in her chaise, and was 
very kind. I dined with Mrs. Cobb, and came to Lucy, with 
whom I found, as I had done the first day, Lady Smith and Miss 
Vyse'. 

This is the course of my life. You do not think it much 
makes me forget Streatham. However it is good to wander 
a little, lest one should dream that all the world was Streatham, 
of which one may venture to say, none but itself can be its parallel. 

I am, &c., . 

Sam: Johnson. 

617. 

To Mrs. Thrale^. 
Dear Madam, Ashbourne, June 14, 1779. 

Your account of Mr. Thrale's illness is very terrible ; but when 



blems of their trade. They are 
attended by Morice dancers, who 
dance sarabands &c., in imitation of 
the Moors, and on the following day 
beg for money. During the day the 
inhabitants of the wards are regaled 
with cold meat, cake and wine at the 
expense of the Corporation.' Har- 
wood's History of Lichfield^ p. 352. 

' Ante^ i. 4, n, 5. 

* Lady Smith is mentioned, ante^ 
i. 329, and Miss Vyse, ante^ i. 334. 

' 'None but thyself can be thy 
parallel ' is from Theobald's Double 
Falsehood. Pope calls it * a marvel- 
lous line,' and thus introduces it in 
The Dunciady first edition, iii. 271 : — 

' For works like these let deathless 
Journals tell, 



"None but thyself can be thy 
parallel" ' 
In Martinus ScribleruSy ch. vii, it is 
suggested that * it is borrowed from 
the thought of that master of a show 
in Smithfield, who writ in large 
letters over the picture of his ele- 
phant : — " This is the greatest 
Elephant in the world except Him- 
self." ' Warton says in a note that 
*this line of Theobald, which is 
thought to be the masterpiece 
of absurdity, is evidently copied 
from a line of Seneca in the Hercules 
Furens : — 

" Quaeris Alcidae parem ? 
Nemo est nisi Ipse."' 
Warton's Pope's Works^ vi. 208. 
* Piozzi Letters y ii. 47. 

I remember 



94 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A.D. 1779. 



I remember that he seems to have it peculiar to his constitu- 
tion, that whatever distemper he has, he always has his head 
affected, I am less frighted. The seizure was, I think, not apo- 
plectical ', but hysterical, and therefore not dangerous to life. 
I would have you however consult such physicians as you think 
you can best trust Bromfield seems to have done well, and 
by his practice appears not to suspect an apoplexy'. That is 
a solid and fundamental comfort. I remember Dr. Marsigli^, 
an Italian physician, whose seizure was more violent than Mr. 
Thrale's, for he fell down helpless, but his case was not con- 
sidered as of much danger, and he went safe home, and is now 
a professor at Padua. His fit was considered as only hysterical. 
I hope Sir Philip *, who franked your letter, comforts you as 
well as Mr. Seward. If I can comfort you, I will come to 



' ' He was mistaken ; it was a 
downright apoplectic fit. That, which 
was but the second, he got over, 
but died soon after of a fourth fit.' 
Baretti. Mrs. Piozzi in a marginal 
note says: — *I was sitting in the 
drawing-room when my servant Sam 
opened the door with un air effari 
saying: — " My master is come home, 
but there is something amiss." I 
started up, and saw a tall black fe- 
male figure who cried, "Don't go 
into the library ; don't go in I say." 
My rushing by her somewhat rudely 
was all her prohibition gained ; but 
there sate Mrs. Nesbitt holding her 
brother's hand, who, I perceived, 
knew not a syllable of what was pass- 
ing.' She adds that ^ he had dropped 
as if lifeless from the dinner- table at 
Mrs. Ncsbitt's house, and had been 
brought five or six miles out of town 
in that condition ' without being seen 
by a doctor. Hayward's Piozziy i. 
299. Miss Burney wrote a day or 
two later: — *Al dinner everybody 
tried to be cheerful ; but a dark and 
gloomy cloud hangs over the head of 
poor Mr. Thrale, which no flashes of 
merriment or beams of wit can pierce 



through ; yet he seems pleased that 
everybody should be gay.* Mme. 
D'Arbla/s Diary ^ i. 220. 

' * Dr. Bromfield of Gerrard Street, 
my old accoucheur,' writes Mrs. 
Piozzi. ^ He convinced me it was an 
apoplectic seizure.' Hayward's Piozzi^ 
i. 300. See cmte^ i. 178, «. 6. 

^ He was in England in 1757. 
Ufe^ i. 322. 

* Sir Philip Jennings Clerk. Lifey 
iv. 80. Mr. Thrale was, no doubt, 
too ill to frank his wife's letter. She 
seems however to have been in the 
habit of imitating his writing, for in 
a letter to Johnson dated May 16, 
1776, she says: — *ril make Mr. 
Thrale frank this letter himself \^<t 
italics are hers] for a fancy.' On 
this Baretti says in a marginal note : 
— *She franked for Mr. Thrale.* 
Piozzi Letters, i. 332. If she did so 
she was guilty of felony, and liable 
to transportation for seven years. 
Gentlematis Magazine, 1764, p. 184. 
In the summer assizes at Exeter in 
1783, 'a young gentleman' was 
sentenced to transportation for this 
offence. Gentlema9i^sMagazine,iyZi, 
p. 708. 

you 



Aeui.69.j To Mrs. TkraU. 95 

you, but I hope you are now no longer in want of any help 
to be happy. 

I am^ &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

The Doctor * sends his compliments ; he is one of the people 
that are growing old. 

618. 

To Mrs. Thrale*. 
Dear Madam, Ashbourne, June 14, 1779. 

How near we all are to extreme danger. We are merry or 
sad, or busy or idle, and forget that death is hovering over 
us. You are a dear lady for writing again. The case, as you 
now describe it, is worse than I conceived it when I read your 
first letter. It is still however not apoplectick, but seems to 
have something worse than hysterical, a tendency to a palsy, 
which I hope however is now over. I am glad that you have 
Heberden ^ and hope we are all safer. I am the more alarmed 
by this violent seizure, as I can impute it to no wrong practices, 
or intemperance of any kind *, and therefore know not how any 

" Dr. Taylor. den.* Cowper's/'^wj, ed. 1786, i. 272. 

• Piozzi Letters,^ ii. 49. * * The mere grief he could not 

' ' Johnson on being asked in his overcome of his only son's loss, 

last ilhiess what physician he had Johnson knew it, but would not tell 

sent for, " Dr. Heberden,'* replied he, it.' Baretti. Mrs. Thrale recorded 

" ultimus Romanoruniy the last of in her Diary soon after his seizure : 

the learned physicians." * Seward's — * Few people live in such a state 

Biographianoy p. 601. An interest- of preparation for eternity, I think, 

ing Memoir of Heberden was pub- as my dear master has done since I 

lished in 1879 by Mr. A. C. Buller. have been connected with him ; 

Great though Heberden*s learning regular in his public and private 
was, in one matter he acted in a manner . devotions, constant at the Sacrament, 

onworthy of a scholar. Hearing that temperate in his appetites, moderate 

a publisher had offered Dr. Middle- in his passions— he has less to ap- 

ton*s widow ;£i 50 for an unpublished prehend from a sudden summons 

work of her husband's, entitled The than any man I have known who 

Jnefficacy of Prayer^ he gave her was young and gay, and high in 

Ji'ico^ and destroyed the manuscript, health and fortune like him.' Hay- 

Life and Works of Heberden^ p. 14. ward's Piossi^ ii. 29. After his 

Perhaps it was partly on account of attack, when his mind perhaps was 

this action that Cowper addressed weakened, he indulged too much in 

him as * virtuous and faithful Heber- eating. See/<7j/, p. 97, «. 2, and Life^ 

defence 



96 



To Henry Thrale. 



[A J>. 1779. 



defence or preservative can be obtained. Mr. Thrale has cer- 
tainly less exercise than when he followed the foxes, but he is 
very far from unwieldiness or inactivity, and further still from 
any vicious or dangerous excess. I fancy, however, he will do 
well to ride more. 

Do, dear Madam, let me know every post how he goes on. 
Such sudden violence is very dreadful ; we know not by what it 
is let loose upon us, nor by what its effects are limited. 

If my coming can either assist or divert, or be useful to any 
purpose, let me but know. I will soon be with you. 

Mrs. Kennedy, Queeney's Baucis, ended last week a long life of 
disease and poverty '. She had been married about fifty years. 

Dr. Taylor is not much amiss, but always complaining. 

I am, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

P. S, Direct the next to Lichfield. 



619. 

To Henry Thrale*. 
Dear Sir, June 15, 1779. 

Though I wrote yesterday to my mistress, I cannot forbear 

writing immediately to you, my sincere congratulation upon your 

recovery from so much disorder, and your escape from so much 

danger. I should have had a very heavy part in the misfortune 

of losing you, for it is not likely that I should ever find such 

another friend ^ and proportionate at least to my fear must be 

my pleasure. 



iii. 422, where Mrs. Thrale writes to 
Johnson : — * Mr. Thrale looks well 
enough, but I have no notion of 
health for a man whose mouth can- 
not be sewed up.* Miss Burney, 
after describing in May 1779, *a 
very grand dinner,* adds that * it was 
nothing to a Streatham dinner.' 
Mme. D'Arblay*s Diary ^ i. 211. 

* Miss Thrale had visited Lich- 
field in 1774. Life^ v. 428. Baucis's 
hut is described in Ovid's Metamor- 
phosesy viii. 630, as 



' Parva quidem, stipulis et canna 
tecta palustri.' 
Perhaps Queeney had read Swift's 
Baucis and Philemon ; she might 
however have read the original, for 
Johnson gave her Latin lessons. 
Post^ p. 98, «. 2. 

' Piozzi Letter St ii. 57. 

This letter is wrongly dated July 
15. It was no doubt written the 
day after the letter to Mrs. Thrale of 
June 14. 

^ Posty Letter of April 5, 1781. 

As 



Aetaiee.] To Mrs, Thrale. 97 

As I know not that you brought this disease upon yourself by 
any irregularity, I have no advice to give you. I can only wish, 
and I wish it sincerely, that you may live long and happily, and 
long count among those that love you best, dear Sir, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

620. 

To Mrs. Thrale*. 
Dear Madam, Ashbourne, June 17, 1779- 

It is certain that your first letter did not alarm me in pro- 
portion to the danger, for indeed it did not describe the danger 
as it was. I am glad that you have Heberden, and hope his 
restoratives and his preservatives will both be effectual. In the 
preservatives dear Mr. Thrale must concur; yet what can he 
reform ? or what can he add to his regularity and temperance ' ? 
He can only sleep less^ We will do, however, all we can. 
I go to Lichfield to-morrow, with intent to hasten to Streatham. 
Both Mrs. Aston and Dr. Taylor have had strokes of the 
palsy. The Lady was sixty-eight, and at that age has gained 
groimd upon it ; the Doctor is, you know, not young, and he is 
quite well, only suspicious of every sensation in the peccant arm. 
I hope my dear master's case is yet slighter, and that as his age 
is less, his recovery will be more perfect. Let him keep his 
thoughts diverted, and his mind easy ^. 

I am, dearest and dearest, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

' Pioszi Lettersy ii. 51. eat much or little. A strange man ! ' 

' Mrs. Piozzi said that after this ^ Mme. D'Arblay mentions his 

attack ' Mr. Thrale's natoral disposi- ' immoderate sleep after meals. Dr. 

tion to conviviality degenerated into Johnson,' she adds, ' was so little 

a preternatural desire for food.' Hay- aware of the insalubrity of his 

ward's Pioszi^ i. 300. Baretti says course of life that he often laughingly 

that *Dr. Johnson knew that Thrale said, " Mr. Thrale will out-sleep the 

would eat like four, let physicians Seven Sleepers." ' Memoirs of Dr. 

preach. May be tie did not know it, Bumeyy ii. 206. 

so little did he mind what people were * *That was impossible: his lost 

doing. Though he sat by Thrale at son was always uppermost in his 

dinner he never noticed whether he mind.' Baretti. 

VOL. II. H To 



98 



To Henry Thrale. 



[A.D. 1770. 



621. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 
Dear Madam, Lichfield, June 19, 1779. 

Whether it was that your description of dear Mr. Thrale's 
disorder was indistinct, or that I am not ready at guessing 
calamity, I certainly did not know our danger— our danger, for 
sure I have a part in it, till that danger was abated. 

I am glad that Dr. Heberden, and that you perceive so plainly 
his recovery. He certainly will not be without any warning that 
I can give him against pernicious practices. His proportion of 
sleep, if he slept in the night, was doubtless very uncommon ; 
but I do not think that he slept himself into a palsy. But 
perhaps a lethargick is likewise a paralytical disposition. We 
will watch him as well as we can. I have known a man, who 
had a stroke like this, die forty years afterward without another. 
I hope we have now nothing to fear, or no more than is unalterably 
involved in the life of man. 

I begin now to let loose my mind after Queeney and Bumey ^. 

I hope they are both well. It will not be long before I shall be 

among you ; and it is a very great degree of pleasure to hope that 

I shall be welcome. 

I am, dear Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

622. 

To Henry Thrale ^ 
Dear Sir, Lichfield, June 23, 1779. 

To shew you how well I think of your health, I have sent 



' Piozzi Letters^ ii. 52. 

" Bumey is Miss Burney. * They 
were/ writes Mrs. Piozzi, * learning 
Latin of him ; but Dr. Bumey would 
not let his girl go on : he thought 
grammar too masculine a study for 
misses.* Hay ward's Piozzi^ i. 317. 
Miss Burney writing on July 20 of 
this year says : — * Dr. Johnson gives 
us a Latin lesson every morning. 
What progress we may make in this 



most leamed scheme I know not ; 
but, as I have always told you, I am 
sure I fag more for fear of disgrace 
than for hope of profit* In Decem- 
ber, 1780, she wrote:— 'Miss Thrale 
and I renewed our Latin exercises 
with Dr. Johnson, and with great 
iclcU of praise.* Mme. D*Arblay*s 
Diary^ i. 243, 427. 

' Piozzi Letters^ ii. 54. 

you 



Aeut. 69.] To Mrs. Thrale. 99 

you an hundred pounds to keep for me. It will come within 
one day of quarter day, and that day you must give me ^ I 
came by it in a very uncommon manner, and would not confound 
it with the rest *. 

My wicked mistress talks as if she thought it possible for me 
to be indifferent or negligent about your health or hers. If I 
could have done any good, I had not delayed an hour to come 
to you, and I will come very soon to try if my advice can be of 
any use, or my company of any entertainment. 

What can be done you must do for yourself; do not let any 
uneasy thought settle in your mind. Cheerfulness and exercise 
are your great remedies. Nothing is for the present worth your 
anxiety. Vivite laeti is one of the great rules of health ^. I 
believe it will be good to ride often, but never to weariness, for 
weariness is itself a temporary resolution of the nerves, and is there- 
fore to be avoided *. Labour is exercise continued to fatigue — 
exercise is labour used only while it produces pleasure. 

Above all, keep your mind quiet, do not think with earnestness 
even of your health, but think on such things as may please 
without too much agitation ; among which I hope is, dear Sir, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

623. 

To Mrs. Thrale^ 

Dear Madam, [Lichfieid],june24, 1779. 

Though I wrote yesterday to Mr. Thrale, I think I must write 

* Quarter Day was the 24th. John- gentleman, " live pleasant." ' Life^ 

son, I think, means to say that the i. 344. Perhaps Johnson had seen 

hundred pounds will reach Mr. the motto round the picture of 

Thrale on the 25th, but that he must Racket, Bishop of Lichfield and 

pay interest on it for the whole Coventry: — ^ Inservi Deo et latare^ 
quarter as if he had received it on * See post^ p. 102, where Johnson 

the 24th. writes : — * I take the true definition 

' See/^j/, Letterof March 5, 1781, of exercise to be labour without 

where he says that he had received weariness.* Resolution Johnson uses 

one hundred pounds as part pay- in a sense which he does not give in 

ment of the sum due for the Lives, his Dictionary ; though he comes 

It is possible that it was this sum that near to it when he defines it as dis- 

he would not confound with the rest, solution^ and instances * the resolu- 

' * Mr. Burke once admirably tion of humidity congealed.' 
counselled a grave and anxious ^ Piozzi Letters^ ii. 55. 

H 2 this 



lOO To Miss Reynolds. [a.d. 1779. 

this day to you ; and I hope this will be the last letter, for I am 
coming up as fast as I can; but to go down cost me seven 
guineas ', and I am loth to come back at the same charge. 

You really do not use me well in thinking that I am in less 
pain on this occasion than I ought to be. There is nobody left 
for me to care about but you and my master, and I have now 
for many years known the value of his friendship, and the im- 
portance of his life, too well not to have him very near my heart. 
I did not at first understand his danger, and when I knew it, 
I was told likewise that it was over — and over I hope it is for 
ever. I have known a man seized in the same manner, who, 
though very irregular and intemperate, was never seized again. 
Do what you can, however, to keep my master cheerful, and 
slightly busy, till his health is confirmed ; and if we can be sure 
of that, let Mr. Perkins * go to Ireland and come back as oppor- 
tunity offers, or necessity requires, and keep yourself airy, and be 
;. funny littU tking\ 1^,%,^., 

Sam: Johnson. 

624. 

To Miss Reynolds*. 
Dear Madam, London, June 37, 1779. 

I have sent what I can for your German friend. At this 
time it is very difficult to get any money, and I cannot give much ^ 

I am, Madam, 

Your most affectionate 

and most humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 

626. 

To Charles Dilly. 

[London, July 13, 1779.] Published in the LifCy iii. 394. 

' Ante^ i. 328, /i. i. sort of clothes, however; they are 

' The superintendant of Mr. unsuitable in every way. What! 

Thrale's Brewery and his successor. have not all insects gay colours?'" 

' Funny is no doubt a misprint for Ufe^ i. 495. 

sunny. The words are, I suspect, a * First published in Croker's Bos- 

quotation. One day * on Mrs. Thrale well^ page 632. 

appearing before him in a dark- ^ For the difficulty of getting 

coloured gown he said, " You little money see cinie^ ii. 87, n, 5. 

creatures should never wear those 

To 



A«tat.69.] To the Reverend Dr. Taylor. 



lOI 



626. 

To James Boswell. 
[London], July 13, 1779. Published in the Life^ iii. 395. 



627. 

To THE Reverend Dr. Taylor '. 

Dear Sir, 

Since my return hither I have applied myself very diligently 
to the care of my health. My nights grew better at your house, 
and have never since been bad ; but my breath was very much 
obstructed ; yet I have at last got it tolerably free. This has 
not been done without great efforts ; of the last fifty days I have 
taken mercurial physick, I believe, forty, and have lived with 
much less animal food than has been my custom of late ^. 

From this account you may, I think, derive hope and comfort. 
I am older than you, my disorders had been of very long con- 
tinuance, and if it should please God that this recovery is lasting, 
you have reason to expect an abatement of all the pains that 
encumber your life. 

Mr. Thrale has felt a very heavy blow. He was for some time 
without reason, and, I think, without utterance. Heberden was 
in great doubt whether his powers of mind would ever return. 
He has however perfectly recovered all his faculties and all his 
vigour ^ He has a fontanel * in his back. I make little doubt 
but that, notwithstanding your dismal prognostication, you may 
see one another again. 

He purposes this autumn to spend some time in hunting on 



' First published in Notes and 
Queries^ 6th S. v. 461. 

* Miss Bumey had written five 
days earlier to Mr. Crisp : — * I fear 
you are not so steady in your in- 
tended reformation as to diet and 
exercise as you proposed being. Dr. 
Johnson has made resolutions exactly 
similar to yours, and in general ad- 
heres to them with strictness; but the 
old Adam, as you say, stands in his 



way as well as in his neighbours*.' 
Mme. D'Arblay's Diary ^ i, 245. 

^ * Mr. Thrale is as well as ever he 
was in health, though the alarming 
and terrible blow he so lately received 
has, I fear, given a damp to his spirits 
that will scarce ever be wholly con- 
quered. Yet he grows daily rather 
more cheerful.* Jb, 

^ 'An issue; a discharge opened 
in the body.' Johnson's Dictionary, 

the 



102 To Mrs. Thrale. [A.D.i77e. 



the downs of Sussex. I hope you are diligent to take as much 

exercise as you can bear. I had rather you rode twice a day 

than tired yourself in the morning. I take the true definition 

of exercise to be labour without weariness '. 

When I left you, there hung over you a cloud of discontent 

which is I hope dispersed. Drive it away as fast as you can. 

Sadness only multiplies self. Let us do our duty, and be 

cheerful. 

Dear Sir, your humble Servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 

August 3, 1779. 
To the Rev* Dr. Taylor at Ashbourne, Derbyshire. 

628. 

To James Boswell. 
Streatham, September 9, 1779. Published in the Ltfty iii. 396. 

629. 

To Mrs. Thrale ^ 

Dear Madam, Monday, Oct. 4, 1779. 

I had intended to send you such a card as I have inclosed, 
when I was alarmed by hearing that my servant had told in the 
house, for servants never tell their masters, his opinion — that for 
the two last days Mr. Thrale was visibly worse. His ey^s are 
keen, and his attention upon such occasions vigorous enough. 

I therefore earnestly wish, that before you set out, even though 
you should lose a day, you would go together to Heberden, and 
see what advice he will give you. In this doubtful pendulous 
state of the distemper, advice may do much ; and physicians, be 
their powers less or more, are the only refuge that we have in 
sickness^. I wish you would do yet more, and propose to 
Heberden a consultation with some other of the doctors ; and if 
Lawrence is at present fit for business*, I wish he might be 
called, but call somebody. As you make yourselves of more 
importance, you will be more considered Do not go away with 

' Anie^ ii. 99. * Perhaps he had had the first 

^ Piozzi LetterSyXX, ^%. attacks of the palsy which three 

^ Johnson's piety here seems to years later made him unable to write, 

slumber. Ufe^ iv. 144, n, 3. 

any 



▲etat. 70.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



103 



any reason to tax yourselves with negligence. You are in a 

state in which nothing that can be done ought to be omitted. 

We now do right or wrong for a great stake. You may send the 

children and nurses forward to-morrow, and go yourselves on 

Wednesday ^ Little things must not now be minded, and least 

of all must you mind a little money. What the world has is to be 

sold, and to be enjoyed by those that will pay its price. Do not 

give Heberden a single guinea, and subscribe a hundred to keep 

out the French * ; we have an invasion more formidable, and an 

enemy less resistible by power, and less avoidable by flight. I 

have now done my duty. 

I am, dearest Lady, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 



680. 

To Mrs. Thrale ^ 

Dear Madam, Oct 5, 1779. 

When Mr. Boswell * waited on Mr. Thrale in Southwark, I 
directed him to watch all appearances with close attention, and 
bring me his observations. At his return he told me, that with- 
out previous intelligence he should not have discovered that Mr. 
Thrale had been lately ill. 

It appears to me that Mr. Thrale's disorder, whether grumous 
or serous ^, must be cured by bleeding ; and I would not have 
him begin a course of exercise without considerable evacuation ^. 



' They were going to Tunbridge 
Wells. 

• Adolphus in W^ History of Eng- 
landy iii. 158, writing of this year 
when we were at war with the United 
States, France and Spain, says : — 
'Individuals and public bodies entered 
into large subscriptions for raising 
troops, giving bounties to seamen, 
and equipping privateers.' Johnson 
ridiculed the fears of an invasion. 
Posif p. 109. 

^ Piozsi Letters y ii. 60. 

^ Boswell, who had made a sudden 
journey to London, had called at 



Johnson's house the morning before 
and found him in bed. * He called 
briskly, "Frank, go and get coffee, 
and let us breakfast in splendour** ' 
Z^, iii. 400. Unfortunately Boswell 
was very indolent in keeping his 
Journal this visit. 

^ Grumous Johnson defines as 
* thick, dotted ' ; serous as * thin, 
watery ; used of the part of the blood 
which separates in congelation from 
the grumous or red part .' 

* Johnson had written to Boswell 
on September 9 : — * Mr.Thrale goes to 
Brighthelmstone about Michaelmas 

To 



104 To Mrs. Tkrale. [A.D.i77e. 

To encrease the force of the blood, unless it be first diluted and 
attenuated, may be dangerous. But the case is too important 
for my theory. 

The weakness in my ankles left them for a day, but has now 
turned to a pain in my toe, much like that at Brighthelmstone. 
It is not bad, nor much more than troublesome ; I hope it will 
not be greater, nor last long. 

You all go with the good wishes of, dear Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

681 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 

Dear Madam, London, Oct 8, 1779. 

I begin to be frighted at your omission to write ; do not tor- 
ment me any longer, but let me know where you are, how you 
got thither, how you live there, and every thing else that one 
friend loves to know of another. 

I will show you the way. 

On Sunday the gout left my ankles, and I went very commo- 
diously to Church. On Monday night I felt my feet uneasy. 
On Tuesday I was quite lame. That night I took an opiate, 
having first taken physick and fasted. Towards morning on 
Wednesday the pain remitted. — Bozzy came to me, and much 
talk we had '. I fasted another day ; and on Wednesday night 
could walk tolerably. On Thursday, finding myself mending, I 
ventured on my dinner, which I think has a little interrupted my 
convalescence. To-day I have again taken physick, and eaten 
only some stewed apples. I hope to starve it away. It is now 
no worse than it was at Brighthelmstone. 

This, Madam, is the history of one of my toes ; the history of 
my head would perhaps be much shorter. I thought it was the 

to be jolly and ride a hunting.' Lifsj to say when he was indolent with hb 

iii. 397. For Johnson's * dabbling in Journal : — * During this visit to 

physic ' see Life, iii. 152. London I had several interviews with 

' Piozzi Letters^ ii. 61. Dr. Johnson, which it is unnecessary 

* Boswell has no record of this to distinguish particularly.' Z//2r, iii. 

day. He says, as he was accustomed 400. 

gout 



▲•tat. 70.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



105 



gout on Saturday. It has already lost me two dinners abroad, 
but then I have not been at much more charges, for I have eaten 
little at home. 

Surely I shall have a letter to-morrow. 

I am, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

682. 

To Mrs. Thrale*. 
Dear Madam, London, Oct. n, 1779. 

I thought it very long till I heard from you, having sent a 
second letter to Tunbridge, which I believe you cannot have 
received ^. I do not see why you should trouble yourself with 
physicians while Mr. Thrale grows better. Company and bustle 
will, I hope, complete his cure. Let him gallop over the 
Downs in the morning, call his friends about him to dinner, 
and frisk in the rooms at night ^, and outrun time and outface 
misfortune. 

Notwithstanding all authorities against bleeding, Mr. Thrale 
bled himself well ten days ago. 

You will lead a jolly life, and perhaps think little of me ; but 
I have been invited twice to Mrs- Vescy's conversation *, but 
have not gone. The gout that was in my ankles when Queeney 
criticised my gait, passed into my toe, but I have hunted it, and 
starved it, and it makes no figure. It has dra^vn some attention, 
for Lord and Lady Lucan sent to enquire after me. This is all 
the news that I have to tell you. Yesterday I dined with Mr. 



' Piozzi Lettersy ii. 63. 

' They soon left Tunbridge Wells 
for Brighton. Mme. D'Arblay's 
Diary y i. 267. 

' * In the evening we went to the 
rooms, which at this time are open 
every other night at Shergold*s, or 
the New Assembly Rooms, and the 
alternate nights at Hick's or the Ship 
Tavern. There was very little com- 
pany. Almost everybody but our- 
selves went to cards.' Jb, p. 268. 



^ Conversation is apparently a 
translation of conversazione. John- 
son uses it again, posty Letter of 
December 31, 1783. In the Letter 
of June 15, 1780, he writes : — *I was 
at Renny's conversationeJ As we 
have not the originals a misprint is 
possible. Hawkins writes of ^ a tea- 
conversation.' Posty p. 1 13, n. 3. For 
Mrs. Vesey see antey ii. ZZy n. 3, and 
for Lady Lucan, ii. 65. 

Strahan, 



io6 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A.D. 1779. 



Strahan, and Boswell was there '. We shall be both to-morrow 

at Mr. Ramsay's'. Now sure I have told you quite all, unless 

you yet want to be told that 

I am, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

688. 

To Mrs. Thrale ^ 
Dear Madam, Oct. 16, 1779. 

The advice given you by Dr. Pepys * agrees very exactly 

with my notions. I would not bleed but in exigencies. Riding 

and cheerfulness will, I hope, do all the business. All alive and 

merry, must be my master's motto. 

How did you light on your specifick for the tooth-ach ? You 
have now been troubled with it less. I am glad you are at last 
relieved. 

You say nothing of the younglings ^ ; I hope they are not 
spoiled with the pleasures of Brighthelmston, a dangerous 
place, we were told, for children. You will do well to keep them 
out of harm's way. 

From the younglings let me pass to a veteran ; you tell me 

nothing of Mr. S ® ; I hope he is well, and cheerful and 

communicative. Does Mr. Thrale go and talk with him, and do 
you run in and out ? You may both be the better for his 
conversation. 

I am sorry for poor Thomas', who was a decent and civil 



* Life^ iii. 400. 
' Lifey iii. 407. 

^ Piozzi Letters^ ii. 64. 

* Sir Lucas Pepys. Boswell call- 
ing on Johnson on March 22, 1783, 
says : — * He was better, but I per- 
ceived he was but an unruly patient, 
for Sir Lucas Pepys, who visited him, 
while I was with him said, ** If you 
were tractable, Sir, I should pre- 
scribe for you.*' ' Zi/Jf, iv. 169. 

* Miss Bumey and Miss Thrale. 

' Perhaps Mr. S erase {ante^ i. 395) 
or a Mr. Selwin to whom Miss 
Bumey took *a prodigious fancy,* 



who was now at Brighton. Mme. 
D'Arblay's Diary , i. 285 ; v. 300. 

' *Mrs. Thrale entered all our 
names at Thomas's, the fashionable 
bookseller ; but we find he has now a 
rival, situated also upon the Steyn, 
who seems to carry away all the 
custom and all the company. This 
is a Mr. Bowen who is just come 
from London. Mrs. Thrale, at the 
same time that she sees his manage- 
ment and contrivance, so much 
admires his sagacity and dexterity, 
that, though open-eyed, she is as 
easily wrought upon to part with her 

man. 



Artat.70.] To Miss Reynolds. 107 

man. It is hard that he should be overwhelmed by a new-comer. 
But thou by some other shalt be laid as low, Bowen's day may 
come. A finer shop may be erected, kept by yet a fairer man, 
and crowded by greater numbers of fine gentlemen and fine 
ladies. 

My foot gives me very little trouble ; but it is not yet well. 
I have dined, since you saw me, not so often as once in two 
days. But I am told how well I look ; and I really think I get 
more mobility. I dined on Tuesday with Ramsay, and on 
Thursday with Paoli, who talked of coming to see you, till I told 
him of your migration. 

Mrs. Williams is not yet returned ; but discord and discontent 
reign in my humble habitation as in the palaces of monarchs. — 
Mr. Levet and Mrs. Desmoulins have vowed eternal hate. 
Levet is the more insidious, and wants me to turn her out'. 
Poor Williams writes word that she is no better, and has left off 
her physick. Mr. Levet has seen Dr. Lewis, who declares 
himself hopeless of doing her any good. Lawrence desponded 
some time ago. 

I thought I had a little fever some time, but it seems to be 

starved away. Bozzy says, he never saw me so well. I hope 

you will say the same when you see me : methinks it will be 

pleasant to see you all — there is no danger of my forgetting 

you. Only keep or grow all well, and then I hope our meeting 

will be happy. 

I am, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

684. 

To Miss Reynolds'. 

Dearest Madam, Oct. 19, 1779- 

You are extremely kind in taking so much trouble. My 
foot is almost well ; and one of my first visits will certainly be 
to Dover Street ^ You will do me a great favour if you will 

money as any of the many dupes in ' Ante^ ii. 74, 77. 

this place whom he persuades to ' First published in Croker's Bos- 

require indispensably whatever he welly page 639. 

shows them.' lb. L 267. ^ Ante^ ii. 85, «. 1. 

buy 



io8 



To the Reverend Dr. Taylor. [a.d. 1770. 



buy for me the prints of Mr. Burke, Mr. Dyer % and Dr. Gold- 
smith, as you know good impressions. If any of your own 
pictures are engraved, buy them for me. I am fitting up a little 

room with prints. 

I am your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

686. 

To THE Reverend Dr. Taylor*. 
Dear Sir, 

[When I found that the Deanery had given you no uneasi- 
ness, I was satisfied, and thought no more of writing. You may 
indeed be very well without it, and [I] am glad to find that you 
think so yourself. You have enough, if you are satisfied ^.] 

Mr. Thrale, after whose case you will have a natural curiosity, 
is with his family at Brighthelmston. He rides very vigorously, 
and runs much into company, and is very angry if it be thought 
that any thing ails him. Mrs. Thrale thinks him for the present 
in no danger. I had no mind to go with them, for I have had 
what Brighthelmston can give, and I know not they much 
wanted me. 

I have had a little catch ^ of the gout ; but as I have had no 
great opinion of the benefits which it is supposed to convey, I 
made haste to be easy, and drove it away after two days ^. 



* Samuel Dyer, a member of the 
Ivy Lane Club and the Literary 
Club. Life^ iv. 10, 436. Johnson 
consulted him about a piece of Latin, 
saying : — * Sir, I beg to have your 
judgment, for I know your nicety.' 
lb, iv. II. Sir Joshua Reynolds 
thought ' he was the author oi Junius 
assisted by Edmund and William 
Burke.* Prior's M alone ^ p. 419. 
The print of him which Johnson 
wanted was the mezzotinto from 
Reynolds's portrait. ' It has been 
copied for the Lives of the Poets by 
mistake, as if it were the portrait of 
John Dyer, author of a poem called 
the Fleeced lb, p. 423. 

' First published in Notes and 



Queries^ 6th S. v. 461. 

^ This paragraph is erased in the 
original. The only Deanery that 
had been filled up this sunmier was 
that of Rochester, on Jime 16. Le 
Neve's Fast, Red, Angl,^ ii. 579. 
See f>osty Letter of November 14, 
1 78 1, for Taylor's longings after 
another Deanery. 

^ There is no instance in Johnson's 
Dictionary or in Dr. Murray's of 
catch used in this sense. 

' Horace Walpole writing after an 
attack of the gout, says : — * The pain 
would be endurable were it to end 
here ; but being the wicket through 
which one squeezes into old age, and 
the prospect pointing to more such 

Publick 



Aaut. 70.] To the Reverend Dr. Taylor. 



109 



Publick affairs continue to go on without much mending, and 
there are those still who either fright themselves or would fright 
others with an invasion'; but my opinion is that the French 
neither have nor had in any part of the Summer a number of 
ships on the opposite coast equal to the transportation of twenty 
or of ten thousand Men. Such a fleet cannot be hid in a creek, 
it must be safely [easily ?] visible and yet I believe no man has 
seen the man that has seen it. The ships of war were within 
sight of Plymouth, and only within sight. 

I wish, I knew how your health stands. My friends con- 
gratulate me upon my looks, and indeed I am very free from 
some of the most troublesome of my old complaints, but I have 



wickets, I cannot comfort myself 
with that common delusion of inter- 
mediate health. What does the 
gout cure that is so bad as itself ? ' 
Letters^ v. 260. Nevertheless twelve 
years later he wrote : — * The gout 
prevents other iUnesses and prolongs 
life. Could I cure it, should not I 
have a fever, a palsy, or an apo- 
plexy?' lb. viii. 362. John Wes- 
ley refers to the same delusion when 
he writes : — * Regard not them who 
say, "The gout aught not to be 
cured." ' Primitive Physicky ed. 1762, 
p. 70. 

' The Earl of Carlisle wrote to 
George Selwyn on June 18 of this 
year : — * I never saw less despond- 
ency, and more spirit manifested in 
a difficult moment, than at the pre- 
sent. Our common practice is to be 
alarmed for two or three days, and 
then to go to all the balls and operas, 
as if the country was in the greatest 
safety.' G. Selwyn's U/ej &c, ed. by 
Jesse, iv. 198. 

Susan Bumey, who was staying 
at Chesington in Surrey, wrote on 
August 25 : — *A report reached us 
from Kingston that the French and 
Spaniards were landed. Mr. Crisp, 
who spends his life in perpetual ap- 
prehension of terrible national ca- 



lamities, went to Kingston the next 
morning, and came back with a 
countenance calculated to terrify and 
crush temerity itself. He could eat 
no dinner. Troops of French and 
Spaniards were landed at Falmouth^ 
whilst the combined Fleets were 
throwing bombs into Plymouth. 
This day and the next we spent 
really very miserably. Sunday we 
received intelligence from my father, 
who was at Mr. Chamier's [the 
Under Secretary of State], that the 
French had not yet attempted to 
land, and though much was to be 
dreaded, there yet remained some- 
thing to hope.' Early Diary of 
Fanny Bumey^ ii. 263. 

Mrs. Barbauld writing in July, 
1803, when Napoleon was threaten- 
ing England, says :— * Pray are you 
an alarmist? One hardly knows 
whether to be frightened or diverted 
on seeing people assembled at a 
dinner-table, appearing to enjoy ex- 
tremely the fare and the company, 
and saying all the while with a most 
smiling and placid countenance, that 
the French are to land in a fortnight, 
and London is to be sacked and 
plundered for three days— and then 
they talk of going to watering-places.' 
Barbauld's WorkSy ii. 92. 

gained 



no 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A.D. 1779. 



gained this relief by very steady use of mercury and purgatives, 
with some opium, and some abstinence. I have eaten more fruit 
this summer than perhaps in any since I was twenty years old, 
but though it certainly did me no harm, I know not that I had 
any medicinal good from it '. 

Write to me soon. We are both old. How few of those whom 
we have known in our youth are left alive ! May we yet live to 
some better purpose. 

I am. Sir, your most humble Servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 

London, Oct. 19, 1779. 
To the Rev<* Dr. Taylor in Ashbourne, Derbyshire. 



686. 

To Mrs. Thrale*. 
Dear Madam, October 21, 1779- 

Your treatment of little • • ♦ • was undoubtedly right ; 
when there is so strong a reason against any thing as uncon- 
querable terrour, there ought surely to be some weighty reason 
for it before it is done. But for putting into the water ^ a child 
already well, it is not very easy to find any reason strong or 
weak. That the nurses fretted, will supply me during life with 
an additional motive to keep every child, as far as is possible, 
out of a nurse's power. A nurse made of common mould will 
have a pride in overpowering a child's reluctance. There are 
few minds to which tyranny is not delightful ; power is nothing 
but as it is felt, and the delight of superiority is proportionate to 
the resistance overcome *. 

I walked yesterday to Covent-garden, and feel to-day neither 



* In his Life of Swift he scoffs at 
that writer's notion that the giddi- 
ness from which he suffered had 
been caused by eating too much 
fruit in his youth. * Almost every 
boy eats as much fruit as he can get, 
without any great inconvenience.' 
Works y viii. 194. 

' Piozzi Letters, ii. 67. 

^ No doubt into the sea, for they 
were at Brighton. 



* Johnson in the Rambler^ No. 
114, after showing how flattering and 
delightful are power and superiority, 
continues : — * We love to overlook 
the boundaries which we do not wish 
to pass ; and as the Roman satirist 
remarks, he that has no design to 
take the life of another is yet glad to 
have it in his hands.' The Roman 
satirist is Juvenal. Satires^ x. 96. 

pain 



Aatet. 70.] 



To Mrs, Thrale. 



1 1 1 



pain nor weakness. Send me, if you can, such an account of 
yourself and my master. 

Sir Philip' sent me word that he should be in town, but he has 
not yet called. Yesterday came Lady Lucan and Miss Bingham*, 
and she said it was the first visit that she had paid. 

Your new friend Mr. Bowen, who has sold fifty sets, had but 
thirty to sell, and I am afraid has yet a set or two for a friend. 
There is a great deal of fallacy in this world. I hope you do not 
teach the company wholly to forsake poor Thomas ^. 

The want of company is an inconvenience, but Mr. Cumber- 
land is a million *. Make the most of what you have. Send my 
master out to hunt in the morning, and to walk the rooms in the 
evening; and bring him as active as a stag on the mountain, 
back to the borough. When he is in motion he is mending. 

The young ones are very good in minding their book. If I do 
not make something of them, ^ twill reflect upon me^ as I knew not 
my trade; for their parts are sufficiently known, and every body 
will have a better opinion of their industry than of mine. How- 
ever, I hope when they come back, to accustom them to more 
lessons *. 

Your account of Mr. Scrase gives me no delight. He was 



' Sir Philip J. Clerk. Ante^ ii. 94. 

' Bingham is the family name of the 
Earls of Lucan. M iss Bingham mar- 
ried in 1 78 1 the secondEarl Spencer ; 
and by him was the mother of Vis- 
count Althorp, the Leader of the 
House of Commons from 1830 to 1834. 
During the time that her husband 
was at the head of the Admiralty ' she 
is often touchingly mentioned in the 
letters of Nelson and CoUingwood, 
as one who was sure to sympathise 
with them in their difficulties. She 
used playfully to call Nelson her bull- 
dog.* Memoir of Viscount Althorp^ 
p. 20. Gibbon described her in 
1785 as *a charming woman who 
with sense and spirit has the sim- 
plicity and playfulness of a child.' 
Gibbon's Misc, Works ^ ii. 384. See 
antey ii. 65, nn, 4, 9. 



^ For Bowen and Thomas, sec 
ante^ ii. 106, «.6. The * sets' were sets 
of the first four volumes of theZiz/«. 
See next Letter where Johnson owns 
that he did Bowen wrong. 

^ Boswell quotes this passage in a 
note. Life^ iv. 384, n, 2. Northcote, 
according to Hazlitt (Conversations 
of Northcote^ p. 275), said that John- 
son and his friends * never admitted 

C [Cumberland] as one of the 

set ; Sir Joshua did not invite him 
to dinner. If he had been in the 
room, Goldsmith would have flown 
out of it as if a dragon had been 
there. I remember Garrick once 
saying, "D— n his dish-clout face; 
his plays would never do, if it were 
not for my patching them up and 
acting in them." ' 

* Anie^ ii. 98, «. 2. 

a friend 



112 To Mrs, Tkrale. [A.D.i77d. 

a friend upon all occasions, whether assistance was wanted from 
the purse or the understanding '. When he is gone, our barrier 
against calamity is weakened ; and we must act with caution, or 
we shall be in more danger. Consult him, while his advice is yet 
to be had. 

What makes C hate B . D is indeed a rival, and 

can upon occasion provoke a bugle. But what has B done ? 

Does he not like her look " ? 

» • • • has passed one evening with me. He has made gpreat 
discoveries in a library at Cambridge, and he finds so many 
precious materials, that his book must be a porter's load. He 
has sent me another sheet ^. 

I am, dearest of all dear Ladies; 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

687. 

To Mrs. Thrale*. 
Dear Madam, London, October 25, 1779. 

Let me repair an injury done by misinformation to Mr. 
Bowen. He had at first indeed only thirty, that is, two shares ; 
but he afterwards purchased two shares more ^. So all that he 
says I suppose is true. 

* Ante^ i. 348, 395. jealousy. He had by this time 

' C — is Cumberland, B — Miss brought out only one of his seven 

Bumey, and D — Dr. Delap, who tragedies— //i^o^^a — and that had 

had with him * another tragedy, and reached only the third night Baker's 

told Miss Bumey she would have it Biog. Dram,^ ii. 289. 

to read.' He begged Mrs. Thrale * Provoke a bugle,' if it is not 

for a prologue. Cumberland avoided a quotation, was perhaps one of 

Miss Bumey, because, as all the the catch- words of the Streatham 

folk said, it had got abroad that she set. Johnson gives as one of 

was ' to bring out a play that season, the meanings of bugle^ * a sort of 

Though in all other respects he is an wild ox.' 

agreeable and a good man, he is ^ Sctposfyp, 118, where the same 
notorious for hating and envying author is probably mentioned. I 
and spiting all authors in the dra- suspect that Dr. Bumey is meant, 
matic line. He had given evident who a year earlier had gone to Ox- 
marks of displeasure at Dr. Delap's ford in search of materials for his 
name whenever Mrs. Thrale has History of Music, It fills four quarto 
mentioned it.' Mme. D^Arblay's volumes. Johnson's name is in the 
Diary y \, 272, 275, and Hayward's list of subscribers. 
Pioszi, i. 302. Dr. Delap's success * Piozzi Letters, ii. 70. 
had not been so great as to justify * As is shown by the title-page of 

On 



Aatat. 70.] 



To Mrs, Thrale. 



113 



. On Saturday I walked to Dover-street', and back. Yesterday 
I dined with Sir Joshua. There was Mr. Elliot of Cornwall *, 
who enquired after my master. At night I was bespoken by 
Lady Lucan ; but she was taken ill, and the assembly was put 
off. I am to dine with Renny ^ to-morrow. 

I hope Mr. Thrale scours the country after the early horn, and 
at night flutters about the rooms, and once a-day makes a lusty 
dinner. I eat meat but once in two days, at most but four times 
a-week, reckoning several weeks together ; for it is neither 
necessary nor prudent to be nice in regimen. Renny told 
me yesterday, that I look better than when she knew me 
first. 

It is now past the postman's time, and I have no letter; and 
that is not well done, because I long for a letter ; and you should 
always let me know whether you and Mr. Thrale, and all the 
rest, are or are not well. Do not serve me so often, because your 
silence is always a disappointment. 

Some old gentlewomen at the next door are in very great dis- 
tress. Their little annuity comes from Jamaica; and is therefore 
uncertain ; and one of them has had a fall, and both are very 
helpless; and the poor have you to help them. Persuade my 
master to let me give them something for him. It will be 
bestowed upon real want. 

I hope all the younglings go on well, that the eldest are very 
prudent, and the rest very merry. We are to be merry but a 
little while ; Prudence soon comes to spoil our mirth. Old Times 



the Uves, thirty-six firms of book- 
sellers had shares in it. J. fiowen's 
name comes last. 

' Where Miss Reynolds lodged. 
Ante, ii. 85. 

* Afterwards Lord Eliot. He had 
travelled with Philip Stanhope, Lord 
Chesterfield's illegitimate son. Li/e^ 
iv. 332. 

' Miss Reynolds. * At a tea-con- 
versation,' writes Hawkins, ' Johnson 
addressing himself to Miss Reynolds 
went on rhyming thus : — 

I pray thee, gentle Renny dear, 
That thou wilt give to me, 

VOL. n. I 



u 



With cream and sugar tempered 
well, 
Another dish of tea. 

Nor fear that I, my gentle maid, 
Shall long detain the cup, 

When once unto the bottom I 
Have drunk the liquor up. 

Yet hear at last this mournful 
truth. 
Nor hear it with a frown, 
Thou canst not make the tea so 
fast 
As I can gulp it down." * 

Hawkins's Life of Johnson^ p. 389. 

have 



114 



To Mrs. Aston. 



[A.D. 1779. 



have bequeathed us a precept, to be merry and wise, but who has 

been able to observe it. 

There is a very furious fellow writing with might and main 

against the life of Milton '. 

I am, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

688. 

To Mrs. Aston'. 

Dearest Madam, 

Mrs. Gastrel is so kind as to write to me, and yet I always 
write to you, but I consider what is written to either as written 
to both. Publick affairs do not seem to promise much amend- 
ment, and the nation is now full of distress. What will be [the] 
event of things none can tell, we may still hope for better times^. 

My health, which I began to recover, when I was in the country, 
continues still in a good state ; it costs me indeed some physick, 
and something of abstinence, but it pays the cost. I wish, dear 
Madam, I could hear a little of your improvements. 

Here is no news. The talk of the invasion* seems to be over. 
But a very turbulent Session of Parliament is expected ^ though 
turbulence is not likely to do any good. Those are happyest 
who are out of the noise and tumult. There will be no great 
violence of faction at Stowhill, and that it may [be] free from 
that and all other inconvenience and disturbance, is the sincere 
wish of all your friends. 

I am. 

Dear Madam, 

Your most humble servant, 

Oct. 25, 1779. Sam: Johnson. 

Bolt-court, Fleet-street 



' * Against his Ufe of Milton the 
hounds of Whiggism have opened in 
full cry.* Life^ iv. 40. 

* First published in Croker's Bos- 
well^ page 640. Corrected by me from 
the original in Pembroke College 
Library. 

' Horace Walpole, a week later, 
lamenting the decay of England, 
says :— * Ambition I never felt, but 



was content with being an individual 
in so free and splendid a nation. 
*Tis all gone, Madam, and methinks 
one sinks in one's own estimation in 
proportion.' Letters^ vii. 268. John- 
son's tone, when he speaks of public 
affairs, henceforth is gloomy. 

* Ante^ ii. 109. 

' Parliament met on November 25. 
Pari. Hist. xx. loaa 

To 



Aetat. 70.] 



To Mrs, Thrale. 



115 



689. 

To James Boswell. 
London, October 27, 1779. Published in the Life^ iii. 413. 



640. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 

Dear Madam, London, October 28, 1779. 

Some days before our last separation, Mr. Thrale and I had 
one evening an earnest discourse about the business with Mr. 
Scrase. For myself, you may be sure I am very willing to be 
useful ; but surely all use of such an office is at a very great dis- 
tance *. Do not let those fears prevail which you know to be 
unreasonable ; a will brings the end of life no nearer ^ But with 
this we will have done, and please ourselves with wishing my 
master multos etfelices, 

C L * accuses • ♦ • • of making a party against her 

play. I always hissed away the charge, supposing him a man 
of honour; but I shall now defend him with less confidence. 



' Piozzi Lettersy ii. 73. 

• For Mr. Scrase, the solicitor, see 
ante^ i. 395. The office that John- 
son was to fill was that of one of Mr. 
Thrale's executors. LAfe^ iv. 85, and 
posty pp. 119, 126. 

' ' Thus I gather that death is dis- 
agreeable to most citizens, because 
they commonly die intestate ; this 
being a rule that when their will is 
made they think themselves nearer 
a grave than before : now they, out 
of the wisdom of thousands, think to 
scare destiny, from which there is no 
appeal, by not making a will, or to 
live longer by protestation of their 
unwillingness to die.' An Essay on 
Death. Bacon's Works^ ed. 1803, 
ii. 476. (In Spedding's Bacon^ vi. 
594, it is maintained that this Essay 
IS not Bacon's.) Johnson with all 
his wisdom was with difficulty brought 
to complete his own will, and only 
finally executed it fire days before 



I 



his death. Lifi^ iv. 402. 

* * Charlotte Lennox.' Baretti. 
* Dr. Goldsmith, upon occasion of 
Mrs. Lennox's bringing out a play, 
said to Dr. Johnson at the Club, 
that a person had advised him to go 
and hiss it, because she had attacked 
Shakspeare in her book called Shak- 
speare Illustrated, Johnson. "And 
did not you tell him he was a rascal ?" 
Goldsmith. "No, Sir, I did not. 
Perhaps he might not mean what he 
said." Johnson. " Nay, Sir, if he 
lied, it is a different thing." Colman 
slily said, (but it is believed Dr. 
Johnson did not hear him,) "Then 
the proper expression should have 
been, — Sir, if you don't lie, you're a 
rascal.'" Life^ iv. 10. The play, it 
is believed, was The Sister^ brought 
out in 1769. Gentleman^ s Magazine 
for 1769, p. 199. Cumberland very 
likely was the person Mrs. Lennox 
accused. Ante^ ii. 112, n, 2. 

2 Nequid 



ii6 



To Mrs, Thrale. 



[A.D. 1779. 



Nequid nimis, Horace says, that Nil admirari is the only thing 
that can make or keep a man happy'. It is with equal truth the 
only thing that can make or keep a man honest. The desire of 
fame not regulated, is as dangerous to virtue as that of money. 
I hope C scorns his little malice'. 

I have had a letter for • • ♦ • ^, which I have inclosed. Do 
not lose it ; for it contains a testimony that there may be some 
pleasure in this world ; and that I may have a little of the little 
that there is, pray write to me. I thought your last letter long 
in coming. 

The two younglings, what hinders them from writing to me. 
I hope they do not forget me. 

Will Master give me any thing for my poor neighbours ? I 
have had from Sir Joshua and Mr. Strahan ; they are very old 
maids, very friendless and very helpless. 

Mrs. Williams talks of coming home this week from Kingston, 
and then there will be merry doings^, 

I eat meat seldom, and take physick often, and fancy that I 
grow light and airy I A man that does not begin to grow light 
and airy at seventy, is certainly losing time, if he intends ever to 
be light and airy. 

I dined on Tuesday with • • • .^ and hope her little head 
begins to settle. She has, however, some scruples about the 
company of a lady whom she has lately known. I pacified her 
as well as I could. So no more at present ; but hoping you are 



' }i(^ace, I Epis, vi. i. 

• Not to admire is all the art I know 

To make men happy, and to keep 

them so.' 

Creech. 

• C } I suppose, is Charlotte. 

• 1 suspect Johnson wrote not *for,' 
^ *(h>m Doswell.' Boswell had 
Wtilltn to him in high spirits from 
Cli9tter» and begged two lines in 
lnKf^ to as ' to keep his lamp bum- 
te Wiisbt.' Johnson wrote back on 
y^l-tflh :- ' Of what importance can 
^ ^ 1^ hear of distant friends to 
^ ■ vho finda himself welcome 

L and makes new 



friends faster than he can want them ?* 
Li/e^ iii. 413. 

* * So here are merry doings,' he 
writes, postj Letter of October 27, 
1781. 

* Airy is a favourite word with 
Johnson. Mrs. Cholmondely he called 
*a very airy lady.' Life, v. 248. 
In RasselaSf ch. xxv, he says, *the 
daughters of many houses were airy 
and cheerful.' He defines it as * gay, 
sprightly, full of mirth,' &c. 

^ ' I could fill up this blank if I 
chose, but will not, as thereby hangs 
a tale.* Barktti. 



all 



Aeut. 70.] To Mrs. Tkrale. 1 1 7 

all in good health, as I am at this time of writing, (excuse 

'^^*^/' I am, dearest dearest Lady, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

64L 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 
Dear Madam, London, Nov. 2, 1779. 

This day I thought myself sure of a letter, but so I am 
constantly served. Mr. Cumberland and Mrs. • • • • , and Mrs. 
Byron', and any body else, puts me out of your head ; and 
I know no more of you than if you were on the other side of the 
Caspian. I thought the two young things were to write too ; but 
for them I do not much care. 

On Saturday came home Mrs. Williams, neither better nor 
worse than when she went ; and I dined at • • • • 's, and found 
them well pleased with their Italian journey. He took his 
Lady and son, and three daughters. They staid five months 
at Rome. They will have now something to talk of. 

I gave my poor neighbour^ your half guinea, and ventured 
upon making it two guineas at my master's expence. Pray, 
Madam, how do I owe you half a guinea? 

I dined on Sunday with Mr. Strahan, and have not been very 
well for some little time. Last night I was afraid of the gout, 
but it is gone to-day. 

There was on Sunday night a fire at the north end of London- 
bridge, which has, they say, destroyed the water- work*. 

Does Mr. Thrale continue to hunt in fields for health unboughtt^ 

' Piozzi Letters^ ii. 74. mon stream of the tide- water of the 

' AnU^ ii. 79. Thames. In the first arch next the 

' Johnson, I suspect, wrote neigh- City [the north end of the bridge] 

baurs. Ante, ii, 113. is one wheel with double work of 

* *In the year 1582 Peter Morice, sixteen forcers.* Dodsle/s London 

a Dutchman, contrived a water- and its Environs^ ed. 1761, iv. 146. 

engine to supply the citizens with For the fire see Gentleman^ s Maga- 

Thames water ; this was about fifty zine, 1779, P* 562. 

years ago improved by Mr. Sorocold, ^ ' Better to hunt in fields for health 

and since that time by that great unbought 

master of hydraulics, Mr. Hadley. Than see the doctor for a nau- 

The wheels placed under the arches seous draught.' 

of the Bridge are moved by the com- Dryden. Lines to John Driden. 

If 



ii8 



To Mrs, Thrale. 



[A.D. 1779. 



. If his taste of former pleasures returns, it is a strong proof of his 
recovery. When we meet, we will be jolly blades. 

I know not well how it has happened, but I have never yet 

been at the B s has called twice on me, and I have 

seen some more sheets — and away we go '. 

I am, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 



642. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 

Madam, London, Nov. 4, 1779. 

So I may write and write, and nobody care ; but you can 
write often enough to Dr. Burney. Queeney sent me a pretty 
letter, to which • • • added a silly short note, in such a silly 
white hand, that I was glad it was no longer ^ 

I had heard before that ♦ • ♦ • had lost not only ten thousand, 
as you tell me, but twenty thousand, as you with great consist- 
ency tell Dr. Burney ; but knowing that no man can lose what 
he has not, I took it little to heart. I did not think of borrowing ; 
and indeed he that borrows money for adventures deserves to 
lose it. No man should put into a lottery more than he can 

spare. Neither D , however, nor B have given occasion 

to his loss*. 

Notice is taken that I have a cold and a cough ; but I have 
been so long used to disorders so much more afflictive, that I have 



» The B s are, I think, the 

Burneys. Anie^ ii. 112, if. 3. 

' Piozzi Letters y ii. 76. 

' ' Do you know I have been writing 
to Dr. Johnson ! I tremble to men- 
tion it ; but he sent a message in a 
letter to Mrs. Thrale, to wonder why 
his pupils did not write to him, and 
to hope they did not forget him. 
Miss Thrale therefore wrote a letter 
immediately, and I added only this 
little postscript : — " P.S. Dr. Johnson's 
other pupil a little longs to add a 
few lines to this letter, — but knows 
too well that all she has to say might 



be comprised in signing herself his 
obliged and most obedient servant, 
F. B. : so that's better than a long 
rigmarole about nothing."' Mme. 
D'Arblay's Diary^ i. 285. 
^ The person who had had the loss 

is described, /^j/, p. 123, as C . 

Cumberland would seem to be the 

man, the more so as D and B 

would fit in with what has been said 
about Dr. Delap and Miss Burney. 
Ante, ii. 1 12, n, 2. For Mrs. Thrale's 
'laxity of narration,' see Ufe^ iii. 
243- 

thought 



Aetat. 70.] To MvS. AstOH. 1 1 9 

thought on them but little. If they grow worse, something 
should be done. 

I hear from every body that Mr. Thrale grows better. He is 
columen domus ' ; and if he stands firm, little evils may be over- 
looked. Drive him out in the morning, lead him out at night, 
keep him in what bustle you can. 

Do not neglect Scrase. You may perhaps do for him what 
you have done for • • • • The serious affair I do not 
wonder that you cannot mention ; and yet I wish it were trans- 
acted while Scrase can direct and superintend it^ No other 
man, if he shall have the same skill and kindness, which I know 
not where to find, will have the same influence. 

Sir Philip ^ never called upon me, though he promised me to 
do it. Somebody else has laid hold upon him. 

I live here in stark solitude. Nobody has called upon me 
this live-long day ; yet I comfort myself that I have no tortures 
in the night. I have not indeed much sleep; but I suppose 
I have enough, for I am not as sleepy in the day-time as 
formerly. 

I am, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

648. 

To Mrs. Aston*. 

Dearest Madam, 

Having had the pleasure of hearing from Mr. Boswel that 
he found you better than he expected, I will not forbear to tell 
you how much I was delighted with the news*. May your 
health encrease and encrease, till you are as well as you can 
wish yourself, or I can wish you. 

My Friends tell me that my health improves too. It is certain 
that I use both physick and abstinence, and my endeavours have 
been blessed with more success than at my age I could reason- 
ably hope. I please myself with the thoughts of visiting you 

' Antei i. 405. from the original in Pembroke College 

' Ante^ ii. 115, if. 2. Library. 

^ AniCy ii. 94, n, 4. ^ Boswell, on his return from his 

* First published in Croker's Bos^ autumn visit to London, had passed 

«////, page 640. Corrected by me a night at Lichfield. Z^, iii. 411. 

next 



I20 



To Mrs. Asian. 



1779. 



next year in so robust a state that I shall not be afiraid of the 
hill between Mrs. Gastrel s house and yours» nor think it neces- 
sary to rest ni3rself between Stowhill and Luc>' Porter's. Of 
publick affairs I can give 3rou no very comfortable account 
The Invasion has vanished for the present as I expected. I 
never bdieved that any invasion was intended*. But whatever 
we have escaped we have done nothii^ nor are likely to do 
better another year. We, however, who have no part of the 
nation's welfare entrusted to our management, have nothing 
to do but to serve God, and leave the world submissively in 
his hands. 

All trade is dead, and pleasure is scarce alive. Nothing 
almost' is purchased but such thii^ as the buyer cannot be 
without, so that a general sluggishness and general discontent 
are spread over the town. All the trades of luxury and el^^ce 
are nearly at a Standi What the Parliamoit when it meets 
will do> and indeed what it ought to do is very difficult to 
say. 

Pray set Mrs. Gastrel, who is a dear good lady, to write to me 
from time to time, for I have great delight in hearing from you, 
especially when I hear any good news of your health. 

I am, 

Dear Madam, 

Your most humble Servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 

London, Bolt-court, Fleet-street. 
Nov. 5, 1779. 



* Antfy ii. 109. 

* Sec Ltfgj ii. 446, for a note on 
almost nothing. Beattie, like Bos- 
well's 'accurate English friend,' 
looked upon it as not English. See 
his Scoticisms, p. 9. 

' Horace Walpole wrote ten days 
later : — * The friends of Government, 
who have thought of nothing but of 
reducing us to our islandhood, and 
bringing us back to the simplicity of 
ancient times, when we were the 
frugal, temperate, virtuous old Eng- 



lish, ask how we did before tea and 
sugar were known. Better, no doubt ; 
but as I did not happen to be bom 
two or three hundred years ago, I 
cannot recollect precisely whether 
diluted acorns and barley bread, 
spread with honey, made a very 
luxurious break^t.' Letters^ vii. 275. 
On November 16 he wrote : — * Dis- 
tress and dissatisfaction do beg^n to 
murmur everywhere. Men do per- 
ceive that they cannot live upon 
loyalty and dissipation.' lb. p. 277. 

To 



AeUt. 70.] 



To Mrs. Tkrale. 



121 



644. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 

London, November 7, 1779. 

Poor Mrs. ••••,! am glad that she runs to you at last for 
shelter. Give her, dear Madam, what comfort you can. Has 
any calamity fallen upon her? Her husband, so much as I hear, 
is well enough spoken of; nor is it supposed that he had power 
to do more than has been done'. But life must have its end, and 
commonly an end of gloomy discontent, and lingering distress. 

While you are vigorous and sprightly, you must take into your 
protection as many as you can of those who are tottering under 
their burden. When you want the same support, may you 
always find it. 

I have for some time had a cough and a cold, but I did not 
mind it ; continuance, however, makes it heavy ; but it seems to 
be going away. 

My master, I hope, hunts and walks, and courts the belles, and 
shakes Brighthelmston. When he comes back^ frolick and 
active, we will make a feast, and drink his healthy and have 
a noble day. 

Of the Lucans^ I have never heard since. On Saturday, after 
having fasted almost all the week, I dined with Renny*. For 



' Pioszi Letters^ ii. 78. 

* I only arrived at the clue to this 
passage by the discovery that a letter 
of Mrs. Thrale given in Mme. D'Ar- 
blay's Diary under the date of 1781 
(ii. 3) must have been written in the 
autumn of 1779. In it she writes : — 
'In the midst of my own misery 
1 felt for my dear Mrs. Byron's ; 
but Chamicr [Under Secretary of 
State, UfCy i. 478, n,\\ has relieved 
that anxiety by assurances that the 
Admiral behaved quite unexception- 
ably, and that as to honour in the 
West Indies all goes well. The 
Grenadas are a heavy loss indeed, 
nor is it supposed possible for Byron 
to protect Barbadoes and Antigua.' 



Horace Walpole, writing on Sep- 
tember 16 about the capture of 
Grenada, says : — * The subsequent 
narrative of the engagement is more 
favourable. It allows the victory to 
the enemy, but makes their loss of 
men much the more considerable.' 
Letters^ vii. 252. For an account of 
the French conquests in the West 
Indies see Ann, Reg, 1779, i. 199. 

Poor Mrs. B and her husband 

were, I conjecture, Admiral and Mrs. 
Byron, grand-parents of the poet. 
Ante^ ii. 79, n, 5, and post, Letter of 
November 12, 1781. 

^ Ante, ii. 65, nn, 4, 9. 

* Miss Reynolds. Ante, ii. 113, 
n. 3. 

Wednesday, 



122 



To Mrs. Tkrale. 



[hJD. 1779. 



Wednesday I am invited by the • • • • s, and if I am well, 
purpose to go. I imagine there will be a large company. The 
invitation is to dine and spend the evening. Too much at 
a time. I shall be in danger of crying out, with Mr. Head, 
catamaran^ whatever that may mean, for it seemed to imply 
tediousness and disgust '. I do not much like to go, and I do 
not much like to stay away. 

Have you any assemblies at this time of the year ? and does 

Queeney dance? and does B dance too? I would have 

B dance with C , and so make all up*. 

Discord keeps her residence in this habitation, but she has for 
some time been silent. We have much malice, but no mischief. 
Level is rather a friend to Williams, because he hates Desmou- 
lines more. A thing that he should hate more than Desmoulines, 
is not to be found ^. 



' Mrs. Piozzi says that Mr. Head's 
real name was Plunkett. He was a 
low Irish parasite, whom Mr. Thrale 
and Mr. Murphy once made per- 
sonate some lord whom they had 
promised to introduce to the beauti- 
ful Miss Gunnings [Life, v. 359, n, 2] 
when they came over to make their 
fortunes. * The girls played off their 
best airs, till the fellow wearied with 
his ill-acted character burst out on a 
sudden as they sat at tea, and cried 
" Catamaran ! young gentlemen with 
two shoes and never a heel : when will 
you have done with silly jokes now ? 
Ladies," turning to the future peer- 
esses, "never mind these merry boys ; 
but iif you really can afford to pay 
for some incomparable silk stock- 
ings, or true India handkerchiefs, 
here they are now " ; rummaging his 
smuggler's pockets ; but the girls 
jumped up and turned them all three 
into the street, where Thrale and 
Murphy cursed their senseless as- 
sistant, and called him Head^ because 
they swore he had none.* Hay ward's 
Piozzi^ i. 317. 

' Miss Buraey and Cumberland. 



They had met at the Rooms, but he 
had at once turned round. ' Mrs. 
Thrale,* writes Miss Bumey, 'told 
me the conversation she had just had 
with him. As soon as I made off, he 
said with a spitefid tone of voice, 
" Oh ! that young lady is an author, 
I hear." " Yes," answered Mrs. Thrale, 
« author of Evelina^ " Humph !— I 
am told it has some humour.** " Ay, 
indeed, Johnson says nothing like 
it has appeared for years.** "So," 
cried he, biting his lips, and waving 
uneasily in his chair, "so, so ! " 
"Yes," continued she, "And Sir 
Joshua Reynolds told Mr. Thrale he 
would give fifty pounds to know the 
author.*' "So, so I— oh I vastly well!" 
replied he, putting his hand on his 
forehead. " Nay,** added she, " Burke 
himself sat up all night to finish it." 
This seemed quite too much for him ; 
he put both his hands to his face, 
and waving backwards and forwards 
said : — " Oh ! vastly well !— this will 
do for anything!** with a tone as 
much as to say, " Pray, no more." ' 
Mme. D'Arblay*s Diary, i. 276. 
' Ante, ii, 107. 

I hear, 



Airtftt.70.] To Mrs, Thrale. 123 

I hear, but you never tell me any thing, that you have at last 
begun to bathe'. I am sorry that your toothach kept you out 
of the water so long, because I know you love to be in it. 

If such letters as this were to cost you any thing, I should 
hardly write them ' ; but since they come to you for nothing, 
I am willing enough to write, though I have nothing to say ; 
because a sorry letter serves to keep one from dropping totally 
out of your head ; and I would not have you forget that there 
is in the world such a poor being as, 

Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

645. 

To Mrs. Thrale ^ 

Dear Madam, London, Nov. 8, 1779. 

You are a dear dear lady. To write so often, and so 
sweetly, makes some amends for your absence. Your last letter 
came about half an hour after my last letter was sent away ; 
but now I have another. You have much to tell me, and I 
have nothing to tell you ; yet I am eager to write, because 
I am ea^er for your answer. 

I thought C had told you his loss*. If it be only report, 

I do not much credit it. Something perhaps he may have 
ventured, but I do not believe he had ten thousand pounds, 

or the means of borrowing it. Of B , I suppose the fact is 

true, that he is gone ; but for his loss, can any body tell who 
has been the winner ? And if he has lost a sum disproportionate 
to his fortune, why should he run away when payment cannot 
be compelled ? 

Of Sir Thomas* I can make no estimate; but if he is 

' The month of November is late to Mr. Thrale, who, as a member of 

in the year for sea-bathing. We find parliament, received them free of 

Johnson, when he was sixty-seven charge. 

years old, bathing near the end of ^ Piozzi Letters, ii. 81. 

October. Life, iii. 92. See post, * Antey'n. iiS. 

Letter of November 14, 1782, «. ' * Sir Thomas Mill.* Baretti. 



' Johnson no doubt addressed them 



distressed, 



1 24 To Mrs. Thrale. [a.d. 1779. 

distressed, I am sorry; for he was in his prosperity civil and 
officious. 

It has happened to , as to many active and prosperous 

men, that his mind has been wholly absorbed in business, or at 
intervals dissolved in amusement; and habituated so long to 
certain modes of employment or diversion, that in the decline of 
life it can no more receive a new train of images, than the hand 
can acquire dexterity in a new mechanical operation. For this 
reason a religious education is so necessary. Spiritual ideas 
may be recollected ' in old age, but can hardly be acquired. 

You shall not hide Mrs ^ from me. For if she be a 

feeler ^, I can bear a feeler as well as you ; and hope, that in 
tenderness for what she feels from nature, I am able to foi^ive 
or neglect what she feels by affectation. I pity her, as one in a 
state to which all must come ; and I think well of her judgment 
in chusing you to be the depository of her troubles, and easer of 
her bosom. Fondle her, and comfort her. 

Your letters have commonly one good paragraph concerning 
my master, who appears to you, and to every body, to mend 
upon the whole ; though your vigilance perceives some accidental 
and temporary alterations, which, however, I am willing to hope 
are more rare and more slight than they were at first. Let him 
hunt much, and think little, and avoid solitude. I hope time 
has brought some company whom you can call now to your 

table ^ Does he take to ? Does he love her as you 

profess to love ? with a fifth part of the kindness that she 

has for me ^. I am well rewarded for what I have taught you 

' Johnson defines to recollect as men to dinner. Among them was 

*to recover to memory.' See Life^ Single - speech Hamilton.' Mme. 

iv. 126, where he distinguishes be- D^Arblay's Diary ^ i. 293. Miss Bur- 

tween remember and recollect ney gives amusing reports of the 

' Ante^ ii. 121. conversation at the Rooms and else- 

^ 'BoswELU " I have often blamed where. lb, 278-296. 
myself, Sir, for not feeling for others ^ Mrs. Thrale replied : — * Poor 

as sensibly as many say they do.** Mrs. ♦ ♦ * ♦ is past dissembling ker 

Johnson. " Sir, don't be duped by cares, or their consequences, a ruined 

them any more. You will find these constitution : my master does not 

very feeling people are not very like her much, nor dislike her : he is 

ready to do you good. They /<iy all so gay now — up cmtong the boughs^ 

you hy feeling'^ * Ufe^ ii. 95, as Miss Owen calls it.' Piozzi Letters^ 

^ * We had a large party of gentle- ii. 85. 

of 



Aetat. 70.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



12 



of computation ', by seeing our friendship divided into factions ; 
so we stand, do we ? as two to ten. A pretty appearance upon 
paper, and still prettier in the heart. Well— ^^ thy ways old 
7ack\ 

Of the capture of Jamaica nothing is known, nor do I think 
it probable or possible^. How the French should in a few 
day take from us an island, which we could not in almost a 
century take from a few fugitive Negroes whom the Spaniards 
left behind them, is not easily imagined ^ If you stay much 
longer in Sussex, you may perhaps hear that London is 
taken. 

We have a kind of epidemick cold amongst us, of which I 
have had my part, but not more than my part ; and I think 
myself growing well. I have lived very sparingly, but shall have 
some dinner to-day ; and Baretti dines with me *. 

I am, dearest Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

646. 

To James Boswell. 
London, November 13, 1779. Published in the Life^ iii. 416. 



■ Posty Letter of July 24, 1783. 

• I Henry IVy Act ii. sc. 4. 

' Horace Walpole wrote on No- 
vember 6 : — * If there is a sprig of 
truth left growing in Bedfordshire 
I entreat your Ladyship to spare me 
a cutting, for there is not a leaf to be 
had in town for love or money ; 
everything is so dear ! and yet false- 
hood bears a still higher price. 
Jamaica is taken, and it is not ; the 
combined fleets are sailed, and they 
arc not,' &c Letters, vii. 270. 

* Near the end of the reign of 
Elizabeth, and again in the reign of 
Charles I, the English made attacks 
on Jamaica but did not occupy it. In 
1655 an expedition sent by Cromwell 



took possession of the island, after it 
had been in the possession of the 
Spaniards 161 years. The slaves, 
called Maroons, who had fled to the 
mountains, continued formidable. 
Down to the end of the eighteenth 
century their disaffection caused 
much trouble. Encyclo, Brit., 9th 
ed., xiii. 550. 

5 * That I did as seldom as I could, 
though often scolded for it, but I 
hated to see the victuals gnawed by 
poor Mrs. Williams, that would often 
carve though stone-blind.' Baretti. 
Boswell who dined at Johnson's house 
describes everything as * in very good 
order.' Lifey ii. 215. 

To 



126 To Mrs, Thrale. [a.d. 1779. 

647. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 

Dear Madam, London, Nov. 16, 1779. 

Pray how long does a letter tarry between London and 
Brighthelmston ? Your letter of the 12th I received on the 15th. 

Poor Mrs is a feeler*. It is well that she has yet power 

to feel. Fiction durst not have driven upon a few months such a 
conflux of misery. Comfort her as you can. 

I have looked again into your grave letter. You mention 
trustees. I do not see who can be trustee for a casual and 
variable property, for a fortune yet to be acquired. How can 
any man be trusted with what he cannot possess, cannot ascer- 
tain, and cannot regulate? The trade must be carried on by 
somebody who must be answerable for the debts contracted ^. 
This can be none but yourself; unless you deliver up the 
property to some other agent, and trust the chance both of his 
prudence and his honesty. Do not be frighted ; trade could not 
be managed by those who manage it, if it had much difRculty *. 
Their great books are soon understood, and their language, 

If speech it may be call'd, that speech is none 
Distinguishable in number, mood, or tense ^ 

is understood with no very laborious application. 

The help which you can have from any man as a trustee, you 
may have from him as a friend ; the trusteeship may give him 
power to perplex, but will neither increase his benevolence to 
assist, nor his wisdom to advise. 

Living on God, and on thyself rely. 

Who should be trustee but you, for your own and your children's 
prosperity? I hope this is an end of this unpleasing speculation, 
and lighter matters may take their turn. 

■ Piozzi LetterSy ii. 90. ^ K parody of Paradise Losty ii. 

' Ante^ ii. 124. 667 : — 

' The brewery was carried on in ' If shape it might be called that 

her name after her husband's death. shape had none 

Ante^ ii. 23, n. i. Distinguishable in member, joint 

* Posty Letter of April 11, 1781. or limb.' 

What 



▲etot. 70.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



12 



What Mr. Scrase says about the Borough is true, but is 
nothing to the purpose. A house in the square will not cost so 
much as building in Southwark ; but buildings are more likely 
to go on in Southwark if your dwelling is at St. James's '. 
Every body has some desire that deserts the great road of pros- 
perity, to look for pleasure in a bye-path. I do not see with 
so much indignation Mr. Thralc's desire of being the first Brewer, 
as your despicable dread of living in the Borough *. Ambition 
in little things, is better than cowardice in little things ; but both 
these things, however little to the publick eye, are great in their 
consequences to yourselves. The world cares not how you brew, 
or where you live ; but it is the business of the one to brew in a 
manner most advantageous to his family, and of the other to 
Kvc where the general interest may best be superintended. It 
was by an accidental visit to the Borough that you escaped great 
evils last Summer. Of this folly let there be an end, at least an 
intermission. 

I am glad that Queeney danced with Mr. Wade ^. She was 
the Sultaness of the evening ; and I am glad that Mr. Thrale 
has found a riding companion whom he likes ^. Let him ride, say 
I, till he leaves dejection and disease behind him ; and let them 



' Mr. Scrase, I think, had urged 
them to take a house at St. James's 
as cheaper than building in South- 
wark. Johnson replied, ' Yes ; but 
if yovi leave Southwark Mr. Thrale 
will be more likely to begin enlarging 
his Brewery; for he would not be 
inconvenienced by the building going 
on close to his house. His great 
ambition is to enlarge his Brewery, 
so as to outbrew Whitbread.' 

* * Mr. Thrale took a ready-fur- 
nished house in Grosvenor Square.' 
Baretti. See Lifcy iv. 72. From 
an old physician ' I learnt,' writes 
Mrs. Piozzi, *what had determined 
my husband's choice to nu. He had, 
the doctor said, asked several women, 
naming them, but all except me re- 
fused to live in the Borough, to which 
and to his business, he observed, he 



was as unaccountably attached now 
as he had been in his father's time 
averse from both.' Hay ward's Piozzi^ 
i. 356. 

^ In a note on one of her letters 
written from Bath a year later Mrs. 
Piozzi says, that Mr. Wade had been 
'hooted out of Bath for showing a 
lady's love-letters to him ; such is 
the resentment of all the females that 
even the housemaid refused to make 
his bed.' Piozzi Letters^ ii. 134 ; 
Hayward's Piozzi^ i. 320. 

^ Perhaps Single-speech Hamilton 
who was at Brighton. One day riding 
after the hounds with Dr. Johnson 
on the Brighton Downs, *he called 
out, "Why Johnson rides as well, 
for aught I see, as the most illiterate 
fellow in England.'" Piozzi's ^»^r- 
doteSy p. 206. 

limp 



128 



To Mrs, Thrale. 



;A.D. 1779. 



limp after him an hundred years without overtaking him. When 
he returns, let me see him froh'ck and airy, and social, and busy, 
and as kind to me as in former times. 

You seem to be afraid that I should be starved before you 
come back. I have indeed practised abstinence with some 
stubbornness, and with some success ; but as Dryden talks of 
writing with a haV^ I am sometimes very witty with a knife 
and fork. I have managed myself very well ; except that having 
no motive, I have no exercise. 

At home we do not much quarrel ; but perhaps the less we 
quarrel the more we hate. There is as much malignity amongst us 
as can well subsist, without any thoughts of daggers or poisons. 

Mrs. is by the help of frequent operations still kept 

alive ; and such is the capricious destiny of mortals, that she will 

die more lamented by her husband, than I will promise to 

usefulness, wisdom, or sanctity. There is always something 

operating distinct from diligence or skill. Temple therefore 

in his composition of a hero, to the heroick virtues adds good 

fortune *. to 

I am. &c., 

Sam : Johnson. 

648. 

To Mrs. Thrale^ 

London, Nov. 20, 1779. 

Indeed, dear Madam, I do not think that you have any 

reason to complain of Mr. , or Mr. ^ What 



* * ril ^fite a Play, says one, for I 
have got 
A Broad-brim'd Hat, and Waste- 
Belt towards a Plot. 
Says th* other, I have one more 

large than that, 
Thus they out-write each other 
with a Hat.* 
Prologue to the Conquest of Granada, 
■ Sir William Temple in his Essay 
Of Heroic Virtue^ says that *the 
excellency of genius * must not only 
* be cultivated by education and in- 
struction,' but also ' must be assisted 
by fortune to preserve it to maturity; 



because the noblest spirit or genius 
in the world, if it falls, though never 
so bravely, in its first enterprises, 
cannot deserve enough of mankind 
to pretend to so great a reward as 
the esteem of heroic virtue.' Temple's 
Works^ ed. 1757, iii. 306. 

' Piozsi Letters^ ii. 94. 

^ Baretti fills up these two blanks 
with the names of Crutchley and 
Cator, who were joint executors with 
Johnson. Life^ iv. 202, n. i; 313. 
* Mrs. Thrale suspected Crutchley to 
be the natural son of Thrale.' Hay- 
ward's Piozzi^ ii. 351. 

I proposed 



Aeut.7o.] To Mrs. Porter. 129 

I proposed is, I suppose, unusual. However, Mr. Thrale knows 
that I have suggested nothing to you that I had not first said to 
him. I hear he grows well so fast, that we are not likely to try 
ivhose way is best ; and I hope he will grow better, and better, 
and better; and then away with executors and executrixes. 
He may settle his family himself. 

I am not vexed at you for not liking the Borough, but for not 
liking the Borough better than other evils of greater magnitude. 
You must take physick, or be sick ; you must live in the 
Borough, or live still worse. 

Pray tell my Queeney how I love her for her letters ; and tell 
Bumey that now she is a good girl, I can love her again. Tell 
Mr. Scrase, that I am sincerely glad to hear that he is better. 
Tell my master, that I never was so glad to see him in my life, 
as I shall be now to see him well ; and tell yourself, that except 
my master, nobody has more kindness for you, than, 

Dear Madam, your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

649. 

To Mrs. Porter \ ^^^ ^^ ^^^^ 

I have enclosed Mr. Boswell's answer. I still continue better 
than when you saw me, but am not just at this time very well, 
but hope to mend again. Publick affairs remain as they were. 
Do not let the papers fright you. 

660. 

To Dr. Lawrence. 
[London], January 20, 1780. Published in the Life^ iii. 419. 

' Printed in Messrs. Sotheby and forwarding * Lucy Porter's petition,' 

Co.'s Auction Catalogue for Au- said : — * Return me her letter, which 

gust 21, 1872, Lot So. One page I have sent that you may know the 

quarto. whole case, and not be seduced to 

Mis» Porter wanted Boswell 'to anything that you may afterwards 

inquire concerning the family of a repent. Miss Doxy perhaps you know 

gendeman who was then paying his to be Mr. Garrick's niece.' Ufe^ iii. 

addresses to Miss Doxy.' Johnson, 417. 

VOL. II. K To 



130 



To John Nichols. 



[A.D. 1780. 



661. 

To John Nichols'. 

[Early in 1780.] 

Mr. Johnson purposes to make his next attempt upon Prior, 
at least to consider him very soon, and desires that some volumes 
published of his papers, in two vols. 8vo, may be procured *. 

The turtle and sparrow can be but a fable ^. The Conversation 
I never read. 

662. 

To John Nichols. 

[Early in 1780]. 

Dr. Warton tells me that Collins's first piece is in the G. M. 
for August, 1 739 ^ For August there is no such thing. Atnasius 



' This and the next two notes were 
first published in the Gentlemat^s 
Magazine for 1785, pages 9, 10. 

They refer to the Lives of Prior ^ 
Granville and Collins, These, as we 
learn by Johnson's Letter to Mrs. 
Thrale of May 9, 1 780, were finished 
before that date. 

* Miscellaneous Works of the late 
Matthew Prior ^ Esq,^ 2 vols, 8vo,, 
advertised in the Gentleman's Maga- 
zine, 1739, p. 556. 

' 'This refers,' says Nichols in a 
note, * to a hint given him in conse- 
quence of what is said in the Life of 
Prior [IVorkSf viii. 15] that "of his 
Tales there are only four." * Johnson 
was right in his statement, for The 
Turtle and Sparrow , if it is a tale, 
\^An Elegiac Tale, occasioned by the 
Death of Prince George, 1708, and 
Conversation, though it also is called 
a tale, does not any more than the 
other belong to the class of which 
Johnson was thinking. 

* Johnson, in his Life of Collins, 
says that * he first courted the notice 
of the public by some verses to a 
Lady Weeping, published in the 
Gentleman*s Magazine* As a kind 



of appendix to the Life we find the 
following : — 

' Mr. Collins*s first production 
is added here from the Poetical 
Calendar : — 



TO MISS AURELIA C- 



•R, 



ON HER WEEPING AT HER SISTER'S 
WEDDING. 

Cease, fair Aurelia, cease to mourn ; 

Lament not Hannah's happy state ; 
You may be happy in your turn. 

And seize the treasure you regret. 

With Love united Hymen stands, 
And softly whispers to your charms ; 

" Meet but your lover in my bands. 
You'll find your sister in his 



»>» 



arms. 

Among CoUins's Poems — far too few 
in number — this piece has been 
always given. Henceforth, I fear, it 
must no longer appear in that grace- 
ful company. It was first published 
in the Gentleman*s Magazine for 
1739, p. 41, and is signed Amasius. 
Its author therefore was Dr. Swan. 

CoUins's first piece was published, 
not in the August number of the 
Gentleman*s Magazine, as Dr. 

was 



Aetei. 70.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



131 



was at that time the poetical name of Dr. Swan, who translated 
Sydenham '. 

Where to find Collins I know not. I think I must make some 
short addition to Thomson's sheets but will send it to-day. 

668. 

c,« To John Nichols. rr- 1 • -o i 

Sir, ^ [Early m 1780.] 

In examining this Book I find it necessary to add to the life 

the preface to the British Enchanters^ and, you may add, if you 

will, the notes on Unnatural Flights '. 

I am, 

Friday. Sir, &c. 

To Mr. Nicol \sic\. 

664. 

Dearest Lady, '^^ ^^^' Thrale 3. ^^^ ^^ ^^^ 

You had written so often. I have had but two letters from 



Warton said, but in that for October 
(P- 545)- It, too, is about a Lady's 
tears ; hence perhaps the confusion 
between the two poems. It is as 
follows : — 
' When Phcebe form'd a wanton smile, 

My soul ! it reach'd not here : 
Strange that thy peace, thou trembler, 
flies 

Before a rising tear I 
From midst the drops my love is bom. 

That o'er those eyelids rove ; 
Thus issued from a teeming wave 

The fabled queen of love.' 
Johnson, I conjecture, mentions 
Amasius in his Letter, because in 
the August number there are some 
lines signed with that name which 
Nichols might have attributed to 
Collins. Hawkins says that Cave, 
the editor of the Magazine^ showed 
him one day Collinses beautiful poem 
To Fair Fidele's grassy tomb. * Cave,' 
he adds, ' could not be convinced of 
the propriety of the name Fidele ; he 

K 



thought Pastora a better one, and so 
printed it.* Hawkins's /(^/f«J£?/», p. 49« 
It is thus printed in the Gentleman* s 
Magazine for 1749, p. 466. Johnson 
in 1765 published it in his edition of 
Shakespeare at the end of Cymbeline, 

I have found the following entry 
among The Orders of the Delegates 
of the Clarendon Press : — 

'Februarys, 1769. Mr. CoUins's 
Copy of Verses to Sir Thos. Hanmer 
to be inserted after the Preface [of 
Hanmer's edition of Shakespeare].' 

' Sydenham, the great physician, 
whose Life Johnson has briefly 
written (Worksy vi. 405) published 
his medical treatises in Latin. 

' The Essay on Unnatural Flights 
in Poetry and The British Enchanters 
are by George Granville, afterwards 
Lord Lansdowne. Neither the preface 
nor the notes are added to his Life, 
Seoposty Letter of August 8, 1780. 

' Piozzi Letters^ ii. 95. 

This letter is misdated 1779- Miss 
2 Bath, 



I'52 



To Mrs, Tkrale. 



[A.D. 1780. 



Bath, and the second complains that the first, which you call so 
many, was neglected, and you pretend to be afraid of being for- 
gotten. I wonder what should put you out of my mind. You 
say rightly, that I shall not find such another ; for there is not, 
if I had the choice of all, such another to be found. 

It is happy, both for you and Mrs. Montague ', that the fates 
bring you both to Bath at the same time. Do not let new 
friends supplant the old ; they who first distinguished you have 
the best claim to your attention; those who flock about you 
now, take your excellence upon credit, and may hope to g^in 
upon the world by your countenance. 

I have not quite neglected my Lives *. Addison is a long one, 
but it is done. Prior is not short, and that is done too. I am 
upon Rowe, who cannot fill much paper ^. If I have done them 
before you come again, I think to bolt upon you at Bath ; for I 
shall not be now afraid of Mrs. Cotton ^. Let Burney take care 
that she does me no harm. 



Bumey, writing from Bath on April 7, 
1780, describes the journey. *Mr. 
Thrale,* she says, *was charmingly 
well and in very good spirits, and 
Mrs. Thrale must be charming, well 
or ill.' On their journey they slept 
one night at the Bear Inn, Devizes. 
They saw the landlord's son, * a most 
lovely boy of ten years of age, who 
seems to be not merely the wonder 
of their family, but of the times, for 
his astonishing skill in drawing. We 
found that he had been taken to town, 
and that Sir Joshua Reynolds had 
pronounced him, the mother said, the 
most promising genius he had ever 
met with.' The boy was Thomas 
Lawrence, afterwards President of the 
Royal Academy. Mme. D'Arblay's 
Diary^ i. 310, 312. 

' * I am very glad,' writes Miss 
Bumey, * at this opportunity of seeing 
so much of Mrs. Montagu ; for, allow- 
ing a little for parade and ostentation, 
which her power in wealth and rank 
in literature offer some excuse for, 
her conversation is very agreeable ; 



she is always reasonable and sen- 
sible, and sometimes instructive and 
entertaining; and I think of our 
Mrs. Thrale, we may say, the very 
reverse, for she is always entertain- 
ing and instructive, and sometimes 
reasonable and sensible ; and I write 
this because she is just now looking 
over me — not but what I think it toa' 
lb, i. 325. 

' * In 1 780, the world was kept in 
impatience for the completion of his 
Lives of the Poeis, upon which he 
was employed so far as his indolence 
allowed him to labour.' Lifey iii.418. 

^ In a note on the Life of Rowe^ 
Nichols says :— *This Lift is a very 
remarkable instance of the uncommon 
strength of Dr. Johnson's memory. 
When I received from him the MS. 
he complacendy observed that the 
criticism was tolerably well done, 
considering that he had not read one 
of Rowe's plays fof thirty years.' 
W^^j, vii. 417. 

* No doubt the Mrs. C , a 

relation of Mrs. Thrale, whom Miss 

The 



Aetot. 70.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



133 



The diligence of Dr. Moisy* I do not understand. About 
what is he diligent? If Mr. Thrale is well, or only not well 
because he has been ill, I do not see what the physician can do. 
Does he direct any regimen, or does Mr. Thrale regulate himself? 
Or is there no regularity among you ? Nothing can keep him 
so safe as the method which has been so often mentioned, and 
which will be not only practicable but pleasant in the Summer, 
and before Summer is quite gone, will be made supportable by 
custom. 

If health and reason can be preserved by changing three or 
four meals a week, or if such a change will but encrease the 
chances of preserving them, the purchase is surely not made at 
a very high price. Death is dreadful, and fatuity is more dread- 
ful, and such strokes bring both so near, that all their terrours 
ought to be felt. I hope that to our anxiety for him, Mr. Thrale 
will add some anxiety for himself. 

Seward called on me one day, and read Spence'. I dined 
yesterday at Mr. Jodrel's^ in a great deal of company. On 



Bumey describes as ' an ugly, proud 
old woman, but marvellous civil to 
me.' Mme. D*Arblay*s Diary ^ i- 3 13« 
Mrs. Thrale says : — * Miss Bumey 
was much admired at Bath (1780) ; 
the puppy-men said, '' She had such 
a drooping air and such a timid in- 
telligence ** ; or " a timid air," I think 
it was, " and a drooping intelligence," 
never sure was such a collection of 
pedantry and affection [/>. affectation] 
as filled Bath when we were on that 
spot.' Hayward's Piozsiy ii. 341. 

' Mrs. Thrale in one of her letters 
says : — * Oh, here comes Dr. Moysey, 
to talk about Whig and Tory, and 
the reign of King Charles the Second; 
how that style of conversation does 
wear one out, especially from a pro- 
fessional man, and when one is 
wishing to bring forward a subject 
really interesting.* Piozzi Letters^ ii. 
13a * Abel Moysey, M.D. of Bath, 
died August 11, 1780, aged 64.' 
Nichols's Lit. Anec, ix« 538. 



" Spence's Anecdotes were pub- 
lished in 1820. Warburton, Joseph 
Warton, Johnson, and Malone had 
been allowed to read them in the 
manuscript, as we are told in the 
Preface. See U/e, iv. 63. Johnson 
described Spence as 'a weak con- 
ceited man.* Boswell. 'A good 
scholar, Sir?' Johnson. * Why, no. 
Sir.* Boswell. * He was a pretty 
scholar.' Johnson. *You have 
about reached him.' lb. v. 317. 

* He was,' writes Horace Walpole, 
' a good-natured, harmless little soul, 
but more like a silver penny than a 
genius. It was a neat fiddle-faddle, 
bit of sterling, that had read good 
books and kept good company, but 
was too trifling for use, and only fit 
to please a child.' Letters, vii. 366. 

^ Richard Paul Jodrell was the 
author of TJie Persian Heroine^ a 
Tragedy, which, in Baker's Biog. 
Dram,, i. 400, is wrongly assigned to 
his son Sir R. P. Jodrell, M.D. 

Sunday 



134 To Mrs. Porter. [^d. 1780. 

Sunday I dine with Dr. Lawrence, and at night go to Mrs. Vesey. 
I have had a little cold, or two, or three, but I did not much mind 
them, for they were not very bad. 

Make my compliments to my master, and Queeney, and 
Burney, and Mrs. Cotton, and to all that care about me, and 
more than all — or else. 

Now one courts you, and another caresses you, and one calls 
you to cards, and another wants you to walk ; and amidst all 
this, pray try to think now and then a little of me, and write 
often. Mrs. Strahan is at Bath, but, I believe, not well enough 

to be in the rooms. ^ j ^ ii/r j 

I am, dearest Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

666. 

To James Boswell. 
[London], April 8, 1780. Published in the LifCy iii. 420. 

666. 

T^ -Km .^, To Mrs. Porter*. • , * 1 o -o 

Dear Madam, London, Apnl 8, 178a 

I am indeed but a sluggish correspondent, and know not 

whether I shall much mend : however, I will try. I am glad 

that your oysters proved good, for I would have every thing 

good that belongs to you ; and would have your health good, 

that you may enjoy the rest. My health is better than it has 

been for some years past ; and, if I see Lichfield again, I hope 

to walk about it 

Your brother's request I have not forgotten. I have bought 

as many volumes as contain about an hundred and fifty sermons, 

which I will put in a box, and get Mr. Mathias to send him^ I 

shall add a letter. 

Nicholses Lit, Anec^ ix. 2. He was * First published in Croker's Bos- 

a member of Johnson's Essex Head welly page 643. 
Club (Lifey iv. 254), and lived at 21, " He wrote four days later: — *I 

Portland Place, the house at present am sorry that Mr. Porter has not had 

occupied by Mr. Alexander Mac- his box ; but by sending it to Mr. 

millan, the publisher. Here it was Mathias, who very readily undertook 

that Johnson dined with him. the conveyance, I did the best I 

We 



Aeut.70.] To Mrs. ThraU. 135 

We have been lately much alarmed at Mr. Thrale's. He has 
had a stroke, like that of an apoplexy ; but he has at last got so 
well as to be at Bath, out of the way of trouble and business, and 
is likely to be in a short time quite well. I hope all the Lichfield 
ladies are quite well, and that every thing is prosperous among 
them. 

A few weeks ago I sent you a little stuff gown, such as is all 
the fashion at this time. Yours is the same with Mrs. Thrale's, 
and Miss bought it for us. These stuffs are very cheap, and are 
thought very pretty. 

Pray give my compliments to Mr. Pearson, and to every body, 
if any such body there be, that cares about me. 

I am now engaged about the rest of the Lives, which I am 
afraid will take some time, though I purpose to use despatch ; 
but something or other always hinders. I have a great number 
to do, but many of them will be short. 

I have lately had colds ; the first was pretty bad, with a very 
troublesome and frequent cough ; but by bleeding and physic it 
was sent away. I have a cold now, but not bad enough for 
bleeding. 

For some time past, and indeed ever since I left Lichfield last 
year, I have abated much of my diet, and am, I think, the better 
for abstinence. I can breathe and move with less difficulty; and 
I am as well as people of my age commonly are. I hope we 
shall see one another again some time this year. 

I am, dear love. 

Your humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 

667. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 

Dear Madam, 

On Sunday I dined with poor Lawrence, who is deafer than 
ever *. When he was told that Dr. Moisy visited Mr. Thrale, he 

could.' Ufey iv. 89. For Mathias in January of this year. Z(/^, iii.418. 

see ante^ i. 159, /». 4, and Early Two years later Johnson wrote: — 

Diary of Frances Bumey, ii. 307, 9. * Poor Lawrence has almost lost the 

" PioMsi Letters^ ii. 98. sense of hearing ; and I have lost the 

' Dr. Lawrence had lost his wife conversation of a learned, intelligent, 

enquired, 



136 



To Mrs, Thrale. 



[A.D. 1780. 



enquired, for what ? and said that there was nothing to be done, 
which Nature would not do for herself. On Sunday evening I 
was at Mrs. Vesey's, and there was enquiry about my master, but 
I told them all good. There was Dr. Barnard of Eaton^ and we 
made a noise all the evening ; and there was Pepys, and Wraxal 
till I drove him away '. And I have no loss of my mistress, who 
laughs, and frisks, and frolicks it all the long day, and never thinks 
of poor Colin *. 

If Mr. Thrale will but continue to mend, we shall, I hope, come 
together again, and do as good things as ever we did ; but per- 
haps you will be made too proud to heed me, and yet, as I have 
often told you, it will not be easy for you to find such another. 

Queeney has been a good girl, and wrote me a letter ; if Bumey 



and communicative companion, and 
a friend whom long familiarity has 
much endeared. Lawrence is one of 
the best men whom I have known. — 
Nostrum omnium miserere Deus* 
Life, iv. 143. 

' For Bennet Langton's account of 
this evening see U/ey iii. 424. Dr. 
Barnard was Provost of Eton College. 
* He was,* said Johnson, * the only 
man that did justice to my good 
breeding.' Piozzi's Anecdotes^ p. 36. 
Pepys, afterwards Sir William Weller 
Pepys, Baronet, was a Master in 
Chancery. His second son became 
Lord Chancellor and Earl of Cotten- 
ham. Samuel Pepys, the author of 
the Diary, was of the same family. 
Burke's Peerage, article Cottenham. 
Johnson speaking of Pepys, *when 
they had been disputing about the 
classics for three hours together one 
morning at Streatham, said: — "I 
knew the dog was a scholar ; but 
that he had so much taste and so 
much knowledge I did not believe. I 
might have taken Barnard's word 
though, for Barnard would not lie." ' 
Piozzi's Anecdotes, p. 142. Pepys, 
when he was eighty-four years old, 
told Mme. D'Arblay that he and 



Hannah More were the only sur- 
vivors of the original set of the B€U 
Bleu, Memoirs of Dr, Bumey, ii. 
263. Wraxall was the author cf the 
Historical Memoirs of My Own Time, 
He was perhaps thinking of this 
evening when he wrote : — * Those 
whom Johnson could not always 
vanquish by the force of his intellect, 
by the depth and range of his argu- 
ments, and by the compass of his 
gigantic faculties, he silenced by 
rudeness ; and I have myself more 
than once stood in the predicament 
which I here describe. Yet no sooner 
was he withdrawn, and with him had 
disappeared these personal imperfec- 
tions, than the sublime attainments 
of his mind left their full effect on 
the ailidience : for such the whole 
assembly might be in some measure 
esteemed while he was present.' 
Memoirs, ed. 181 5, i. 147. 

* * Then to her new love let her go ; 
And deck her in golden array ; 
Be finest at every fine show 
And frolic it all the long day.' 

ROWE. Colin*s Complaint, Camp- 
bell's British Poets, ed. 1845, P- 334* 
See post, p. 139, n, i. 

said 



AaUt. 70.] 



To Mrs. Tkrale. 



137 



said she would write, she told you a fib. She writes nothing to 
me. She can write home fast enough. I have a good mind not 
to let her know, that Dr. Bernard ', to whom I had recommended 
her novel, speaks of it with great recommendation ; and that the 
copy which she lent me, has been read by Dr. Lawrence three 
times over. And yet what a gypsey it is. She no more minds 
me, than if I were a Brangton *. Pray speak to Queeney to write 
again. 

I have had a cold and a cough, and taken opium, and think I 
am better. We have had very cold weather ; bad riding weather 
for my master, but he will surmount it alL Did Mrs. Browne 
make any reply to your comparison of business with solitude, or 
did you quite down her^? I am much pleased to think that 



' Dr. Barnard. 

* M iss Bumey writes on April 13: — 
' Dr. Johnson has sent a bitter re- 
proach to Mrs. Thrale of my not 
writing to him, for he has not yet 
received a scrawl I have sent him. 
He says Dr. Barnard, the Provost of 
Eton, has been singing the praises of 
my book.' Mme. D'Arbla/s Diary ^ 
L 323. The Branghtons are the 
funily of a silversmith of Snow Hill, 
described in Miss Bumey's Evelina^ 
Letter xvii. In her Memoirs of Dr, 
Burmy^ ii. 193, she describes a visit 
Boswell paid to Streatham soon after 
Evelina had been published. At 
hmch he had left his seat and placed 
himself behind Johnson's chair. 
'The Doctor turned angrily round 
upon him, and clapping his hand 
rather loudly upon his knee said in a 
tone of displeasure, " What do you 
do there. Sir ? Go to the table, Sir." 
Boswell presently recollected some- 
thing that he wished to exhibit, and 
was running away in its search, when 
the Doctor calling after him said, 
"What are you thinking of, Sir? 
Why do you get up before the cloth 
is removed? Come back to your 
place. Sir.** Again, and with equal 



obsequiousness, Mr. Boswell did as 
he was bid ; when the Doctor, 
pursing his lips, not to betray rising 
risibility, muttered half to himself : — 
''Running about in the middle of 
meals ! One would take you for a 
Branghton ! " "A Branghton, Sir ? " 
repeated Mr. Boswell with earnest- 
ness. " What is a Branghton, Sir ? " 
" Where have you lived. Sir,** cried 
the Doctor laughing, "and what com- 
pany have you kept not to know 
that?" Mr. Boswell, now doubly 
curious, yet always apprehensive of 
falling into some disgrace with Dr. 
Johnson, said in a low tone to Mrs. 
Thrale : — " Pray, Ma'am, what's a 
Branghton? Do me the favour to 
tell me. Is it some animal here- 
abouts ? " Mrs. Thrale only laughed 
heartily, but without answering. But 
Mr. Seward cried : — " 111 tell you, 
Boswell,— ru tell you — if you will 
walk with mc into the paddock ; only 
let us wait till the table is cleared : 
or I'll shall be taken for a Branghton 



too. 



♦♦ ) 



Boswell forgot to record this scene 
in the Life, 

^ Mrs. Thrale writing to Johnson 
on May 9, says: — * Why Mrs. Browne 

Mrs. Cotton 



T38 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A.D. 1780. 



Mrs. Cotton thinks me worth a frame, and a place upon her wall. 
Her kindness was hardly within my hope, but time does wonder- 
ful things. All my fear is, that if I should come again, my print 
would be taken down. I fear I shall never hold it. 

Who dines with you ? Do you see Dr. Woodward or Dr. Har- 
rington ' ? Do you go to the house where they write for the 
myrtle ' ? You are at all places of high resort, and bring home 
hearts by dozens ; while I am seeking for something to say about 
men of whom I know nothing but their verses, and sometimes 
very little of them. Now I have begun, however, I do not de- 
spair of making an end. Mr. NichoUs holds that Addison is the 
most taking of all that I have done. I doubt they will not be 
done before you come away. 

Now you think yourself the first writer in the world for a letter 
about nothing. Can you write such a letter as this ? So mis- 
cellaneous, with such noble disdain of regularity, like Shake- 
speare's works ; such graceful negligence of transition, like the 
ancient enthusiasts ? The pure voice of nature and of friendship. 
Now of whom shall I proceed to speak? Of whom but Mrs. 
Montague? Having mentioned Shakespeare and Nature, does 
not the name of Montague force itself upon me^? Such were 



should be called a Methodist you 
must tell ; for 'tis considered always 
a term of reproach, I trust ; because 
I never yet did hear that any one 
person called himself a Methodist.* 
Piozzi Letters^ ii. 119. For downing 
see ante^ ii. 73, /». 6. 

' * D r. Woodward called this morn- 
ing. He is a physician here, and a 
chatty, agreeable man. At dinner we 
had Dr. Harington, another physician. 
It is his son who published those 
remains of his ancestor. Sir John 
Harington, under the title of Nugce 
Antiguce* Mme. D'Arblay's Diary^ 
i. 317, 341. See Ufcy iv. 180. 

' Lady Miller * held a Parnassus- 
fair every Thursday * at her villa at 
Bath-Easton. *A Roman vase, 
dressed with pink ribands and 
myrtles, received the poetry.* Wal- 



pole's Letters y vi. 171. Miss Bumey 
records in her Diary at this time : — 
*Do you know now that, notwith- 
standing Bath-Easton is so much 
laughed at in London, nothing here 
is more tonish than to visit Lady 
Miller. She is a round, plump, 
coarse-looking dame of about forty, 
and while all her aim is to appear an 
elegant woman of fashion, all her 
success is to seem an ordinary woman 
in very common life, with fine clothes 
on.' Mme. D'Arblay*s Diary y i. 

364. 

^ Mr. Croker takes this humorous 
passage as serious praise. 'Com- 
pare,* he writes, 'this with two 
former phrases in which Shakespeare 
and Mrs. Montagu are mentioned, 
and wonder at the inconsistencies to 
which the greatest genius and the 

the 



Aotat. 70.] 

*— 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



139 



the transitions of the ancients, which now seem abrupt, because 
the intermediate idea is lost to modem understandings. I wish 
her name had connected itself with friendship ; but, ah Colin, 
thy hopes are in vain '. One thing however is left me, I have 
still to complain * ; but I hope I shall not complain much while 
you have any kindness for me. I am, 

Dearest and dearest Madam, 

Your, &c., 
London, April 11, 1780. SaM: JoHNSON. 

You do not date your letters ^. 

668. 

To Mrs. Thrale*. 

Dearest Madam, April 15, 1780. 

I did not mistake Dr. Woodward's case ; nor should have 



highest spirit may be reduced ! 
Periiaps Johnson's original disposi- 
tion to depreciate Mrs. Montagu 
may have arisen from his having 
heard that she thought Rasselas an 
cpiiUe (Carter's Letters^ iii. 108). 
His later praise was no doubt pro- 
duced by her charity to Mrs. 
Williams. This, though it may ex- 
plain, does not excuse the incon- 
sistencies.' Croker^s Boswell^ p. 644. 
It almost passes belief that such 
nonsense as this should have been 
written by a man of intelligence, and 
should have been repeated in suc- 
ceeding editions. Johnson despised 
Mrs. Montagu's Essay on Shakespeare 
because it b as worthless as it is pre- 
tentious. 

' 'What though I have skill to 
complain, 
Though the Muses my temples 
have crown'd ; 
What though, when they hear my 
soft strain. 
The virgins sit weeping around ? 
Ah, Colin ! thy hopes are in vain. 
Thy pipe and thy laurel resign, 
Thy fiUse one inclines to a swain 



Whose music is sweeter than 
thine.' 

ROWE. Campbell's British Poets^ 
ed. 1845, p. 334. 

As early as September, 1778, John- 
son said that he believed that he was 
not in Mrs. Montagu's good graces. 
Ufe^ iv. 64, «. I. In 1781 his Life of 
Lyttelton * produced a declaration of 
war against him from her.' He said, 

* Mrs. Montagu has dropped me. 
Now, Sir, there are people whom one 
should like very well to drop, but 
would not wish to be dropped by.' 
lb. iv. 64, 73. Miss Bumey, writing 
to him on November 19, 1783, recalls 
a saying of his about her outcry. 

* What, as you said of a certain great 
lady, signifies the barking of a lap- 
dog, if once the lion puts out his 
paw ? ' Memoirs of Dr, Bumey ^ ii. 357. 

' Johnson, no doubt quoting Rowe, 
wrote, * I have skill to complain.' 

^ Johnson himself in eariy life had 
not always been careful to date his 
letters. Life^ i. 122, 3. He often 
urges Mrs. Thrale to date hers, but 
with no result. 

* Piozzi Lettersy ii. 102. 

wanted 



I40 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A.D. 1780. 



wanted any explanation. But broken* is a very bad word in 
the city. 

Here has just been with me •»••', who has given — What 
has he given ? Nothing, I believe, gratis. He has given fifty- 
seven lessons this week. Surely this is business. 

I thought to have finished Rowe's life to-day, but I have five 
or six visitors who hindered me ; and I have not been quite well. 
Next week I hope to dispatch four or five of them. 

It is a great delight to hear so much good of all of you. Fanny ^ 
tells me good news of you, and you speak well of Fanny; and all 
of you say what one would wish of my master. And my sweet 
Queeney, I hope is well. Does she drink the waters? One glass 
would do her as much good as it does her father *. 

You and Mrs. M must keep Mrs. • » » • about you ; and 

try to make a wit of her ^. She will be a little unskilful in her 
first essays ; but you will see how precept and example will 
bring her forwards. 

Surely it is very fine to have your powers. The wits court 
you, and the Methodists love you ^ and the whole world runs 
about you ; and you write me word how well you can do without 
me : and so, go thy ways poor Jack ^. 

That sovereign ^/a^j of water is the great medicine ; and though 
his legs are too big, yet my master takes a glass of water. This 
is bold practice. I believe, under the protection of a glass of 
water drank ^ at the pump, he may venture once a-week upon a 
stew'd lamprey ^ 



* * The King's grown bankrupt, like 

a broken man.* 
Richard Ily Act ii. so. i. 1. 257. 
' Perhaps Dr. Bumey. 
^ Miss Burney. 

* Mrs. Thrale wrote in reply : — * I 
think the one glass of water which 
you scorn so has an effect [on Mr. 
Thrale], and that not a good one — it 
gives dizziness.' Piozzi Letters^ ii. 

131. 
^ Mrs. Piozzi fills up the blanks 

with the names of Montagu and 

Byron. Hay ward's Piozzi^ i. 319. 



* Antcy ii. 137, n, 3. 

' * 0/d]ack,* Ante, il 125, n. 2. 

* Johnson in his Dictionary gives 
drunk and drunken as the past 
participle o{ to drink ; but in a quota- 
tion which he gives from Arbuthnot 
we find ' he had drank.' 

' Lampreys, it should seem, were 
a favourite dish with Mr. Thrale. 
Mrs. Piozzi says that when Johnson 
once urged temperance, * he answered 
him only by inquiring when lamprey 
season would come in.' Hay ward's 
Piozzi, i. 303. 

I wish 



Aatot. 70.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



141 



I wish you all good ; yet know not what to wish you which 
you have not. May all good continue and increase. 

I am, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

669. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 

Dear Madam, London, April 18, 1780. 

Of the petticoat government I had never heard '. Of the 
Shakespeare, I was once told by Miss Lawrence ; and that is all 
that I know of it. I have not seen nor heard of any body that 
has seen the wonders. You may be sure I should tell you any 
thing that would gratify your curiosity, and furnish you for your 
present expences of intellectual entertainment. But of this dra- 
matick discovery I know nothing ^. 

I cannot see but my master may with stubborn regularity 
totally recover. But surely, though the invasion has been re- 
pelled from life, the waste it has made will require some time 
and much attention to repair it. You must not grow weary of 
watching him, and he must not grow impatient of being watched. 

Pray, of what wonders do you tell me ? You make verses, and 
they are read in publick, and I know nothing about them. This 
very crime, I think, broke the link of amity between Richardson 

and Miss M *, after a tenderness and confidence of many 

years. However, you must do a great deal more before I leave 
you for Lucan' or Montague, or any other charmer ; if any other 
charmer would have me. 

I am sorry that you have seen Mrs. W ^. She and her 



' Piozzi Letters^ ii. 104. 

* Johnson refers to petticoat 
government, post^ pp. I5i» 2. It is 
possible that some political pamphlet 
had lately been brought out under 
that title, in imitation of one by John 
Donton in 1702. 

^ Perhaps * the Shakespeare ' was 
Malone's Supplement to the Edition 
of Shakespear^s Plays by Samuel 
Johnson and George Steevens^ pub- 
lished this year. 



* * Miss Mulso.* Baretti. Miss 
Mulso is better known as ' the ad- 
mirable Mrs. Chapone.' She was 
one of the literary ladies who sat at 
Richardson's feet. I cannot find any 
account of this quarrel in Richard- 
son's Correspondence^ ed. by Mrs. 
Barbauld. 

^ Lady Lucan. Ante, ii. 65. 

* Most probably the lady men- 
tioned ante^ ii. 128. 

husband 



142 



To Mrs, Thrale. 



[A.D. 1780. 



husband exhibited two very different appearances of human 
nature. But busy, busy, still art thou ^ He prevailed on himself 
to treat her with great tenderness ; and to show how little sense 
will serve for common life, she has passed through the world with 
less imprudence thaij any of her family. 

Sir Philip's bill has been rejected by the Lords. There was, 
I think, nothing to be objected to it, but the time at which it 
was proposed, and the intention with which it was projected. It 
was fair in itself, but tended to weaken government when it is 
too weak already '. 

• • • • has no business about you, but to be taught Poor 

B 's ' tenderness is very affecting. Comfort her all you can. 

I sincerely wish her well. Declining life is a very awful scene. 



' * But busy, busy still art thou 
To bind the loveless, joyless vow. 
The heart from pleasure to delude. 
To join the gentle to the rude.' 
A Song. Thomson's Works, ed. 
1775, ii. 268. It is Fortune who is 
so cruelly busy. 

■ Miss Bumey records in February 
1 779 that one day at Streatham Sir 
Philip J. Clerk, * a professed minority 
man,' described *a bill he had in 
agitation against contractors. Dr. 
Johnson at first scoffed at it; Mr. 
Thrale betted a guinea it would not 
pass, and Sir Philip that he should 
divide a hundred and fifty upon it. 
Dr. Johnson having made more 
particular inquiries into its merits 
first softened towards it, and then 
declared it a very rational and fair 
bill, and joined with Mrs. Thrale in 
soliciting Mr. Thrale's vote. Sir 
Philip was quite delighted. He 
opened upon politics more amply, 
and declared his opinions, which 
were so much bordering upon the 
republican principles that Dr. John- 
son suddenly took fire ; he called 
back his recantation, and begged 
Mr. Thrale not to vote for the bill. 
"It ought," said he, " to be opposed 
by all honest men. In itself and 



considered simply, it is equitable, and 
I would forward it ; but when we 
find what a faction it is to support and 
encourage, it ought not to be listened 
to. All men should oppose it who 
do not wish well to sedition." ' Mme. 
D'Arblay's Diary, i. 192. The bill, 
which is known as the Contractors' 
Bill, was to restrain any member of 
parliament from being concerned in 
any Government contract unless the 
contract were made at a public 
bidding. Leave to bring it in was 
carried by 158 to 143, so that Sir 
Philip won his guinea. It was lost 
however upon the motion for referring 
it to a Committee. Pari, Hist., xx. 
124. The following year it was 
carried without a division, but it was 
lost in the Lords. Ann, Reg,, 1780, i. 
1 53, 181. It was brought in again in 
March, 1782, and was carried through 
both Houses. Ann, Reg,, 1782, i. 
308, and Chitty's Statutes, iv. 1124, 
ed. 1880, where the date is wrongly 
given as 1749. In 1801 after the 
Union a similar provision was made 
for Ireland by 41 George III, c. 52, 
sec. 4. 

^ Probably Mrs. Byron. Ante, ii. 
121, n, 2. See Mme. D'Arblay's 
Diary, i. 317, 331. 

Please 



A«ut. 70.] To the Reverend Dr. Taylor. 



143 



Please to tell Mr. Thrale, that I think I grow rather less ; and 
that I was last week almost dizzy with vacuity. I repeat my 
challenge to alternate diet * ; and doubt not but both of us, by 
adhering to it, may live more at ease, and a much longer time. 

Though I am going to dine with Lady Craven % 

I am, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

660. 

To THE Reverend Dr. Taylor'. 

Dear Sir, 

The quantity of blood taken from you appears to me not 



' The challenge has not been given 
in any previous letter. Each, I con- 
jecture, was to abstain from animal 
food, every other day. See/<?j/, pp. 
147, 164, 181. 

* ' The beautiful, gay and fascinat- 
ing Lady Craven,' as Boswell calls 
her. ' Lord Macartney,' he adds, 
' told me that he met Johnson at her 
house, and that he seemed jealous of 
any interference. '' So (said his Lord- 
ship smiling) I kept backP* Lif^^ iii* 
23. She was the daughter of the 
fourth Earl of Berkeley, and wife 
first of the sixth Lord Craven and 
afterwards of the Margrave of 
Anspach. In 1825 she published her 
Memoirs. Walpole's Letters, ix. 75, 
n. I. 

' First published in the Catalogue 
of Mr. Alfred Morrison's Autographs, 

ii. 343- 
This Letter, though it is dated 

1778, must have been written in 1780, 
improbable as it seems that John- 
son should have fallen into such a 
blunder. Thrale's first attack was in 
June, 1779, when he was in extreme 
danger. ^M/^,p.93; Life of Johnson^ 
iii. 397, and Hayward's Piozzi^ i. 299 
(where 1770 is a misprint for 1779) ; 
iL 28. Johnson had the remission of 
the convulsions which he mentions 



on June 18, 1779. He recorded on 
June 18, 1780: — * In the morning of 
this day last year I perceived the 
remission of those convulsions in my 
breast which had distressed me for 
more than twenty years. I returned 
thanks at church for the mercy 
granted me, which has now continued 
a year.' — Prayers and Meditations^ 
p. 183. 

Three days later he wrote to Mrs. 
Thrale : — 

* It was a twelvemonth last Sunday 
since the convulsions in my breast 
left me. I hope I was thankful when 
I recollected it ; by removing that 
disorder a great improvement was 
made in the enjoyment of life.' Post^ 
Letter of June 21, 1780. 

He was at Ashbourne on June 18, 
1779. Life, iii. 453. 

On April 20, 1778, the very day of 
which this letter bears the date, he 
recorded : — 

* After a good night, as I am forced 
to reckon, I rose seasonably. . . . 
In reviewing my time from Easter, 
1777, I found a very melancholy and 
shameful blank. So little has been 
done that days and months are with- 
out any trace. My health has, indeed, 
been very much interrupted. My 
nights have been commonly not only 

sufficient. 



144 



To Dr. Burney. 



[A.D. 1780. 



sufficient. Thrale was almost lost by the scrupulosity* of his 
physicians, who never bled him copiously till they bled him in 
despair; he then bled till he fainted, and the stricture or 
obstruction immediately gave way and from that instant he 
g^ew better. 

I can now give you no advice but to keep yourself totally 
quiet and amused with some gentle exercise of the mind. If 
a suspected letter comes, throw it aside till your health is re- 
established ; keep easy and cheerful company about you, and 
never try to think but at those stated and solemn times when 
the thoughts are summoned to the cares of futurity, the only 
real cares of a rational Being. 

As to my own health I think it rather grows better; the 
convulsions which left me last year at Ashbourne have never 
returned, and I have by the mercy of God very comfortable nights. 
Let me know very often how you are, till you are quite well, 

I am, Sir, 
Your affectionate humble servant, 

London, April 20, 1778 [? 1780]. SaM : JOHNSON. 

To the Rev. Dr. Taylor in Ashbourne, Derbyshire. 



661. 

To Dr. Burney'. 

Mr. Johnson received an invitation from Mrs. Ord for to- 
morrow, and having forgotten her street, desires to be informed 



restless, but painful and fatiguing. 
. . . Some relaxation of my breast 
has been procured, I think, by opium, 
which, though it never gives me 
sleep, frees my breast from spasms.' — 
Prayers and Meditations^ p. 169. 

* See Life^ iv. 5, n, 2, for instances 
of Johnson's use of scrupulosity^ 
which was remarked on by Sir 
William Jones. Adam Smith I have 
found using the word in his Theory 
of Moral Sentiments y ed. 1801, ii. 
49, where he describes the prudent 
man as 'respecting with an almost 



religious scrupulosity all the estab- 
lished decorums and ceremonials of 
society,' and a second time, p. 334, 
where he writes of ' a frivolous and 
weak scrupulosity of conduct.' 

' From the original in the posses- 
sion of Mr. Millin Chamberlain of 
the Boston Public Library, Boston, 
United States. 

As there is nothing to fix the date 
of this letter I enter it here, because 
in the next letter Johnson for the 
first time mentions his having visited 
Mrs. Ord. Hannah More describes 

where 



AeUt. 70.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



H5 



where she lives. If Dr. Bumey goes to-morrow, Mr. Johnson 
will call on him, and beg the favour of going with him. 
Wednesday. 
To D'. Bumey — or any Bumey '. 



Dear Madam, 

Mr. E 3 and Mr. P 



662. 

To Mrs. Thrale*. 



* called on me to-day with 



your letter to the electors, and another which they had drawn 
up, to serve in its place. I thought all their objections just, and 
all their alterations proper. You had mentioned his sickness in 
terms which gave his adversaries advantage, by confirming the 
report which they already spread with great industry, of his 
infirmity and inability. You speak, in their opinion, and in 
mine, with too little confidence in your own interest. By fearing, 
you teach others to fear. All this is now avoided, and it is to 
take its chance. 



how, in 1780, she went to one of that 
lady's assemblies at a time when ' the 
mooming for some foreign Wilhel- 
mina Jaquelina was not over. Every 
human creature was in deep moum- 
mg, and I, poor I, all gorgeous in 
scarlet Even Jacobite Johnson was 
in deep mourning.' Life and Cor- 
rtspandifue of Hannah More, i. 170. 

' One of the last letters which 
Johnson wrote was on his return to 
London less than a month before his 
death, in which he says : — * Mr. John- 
son who came home last night sends 
his respects to dear Dr. Bumey and 
all the dear Bumeys, little and great.* 
Ufe, iv. 377. See also posty Letter 
of November 14, 1781. 

• Piczzi LetterSy ii. 106. 

On April 6 Dunning's famous 
motion 'that the influence of the 
Crown has increased, is increasing, 
and ought to be diminished' had 
been carried by a majority of 18— 
233 to 215. 'The blow seems to me 
decisive,' wrote Horace Walpole two 

VOL. IL 



days later. Letters^ vii. 348. On 
the nth he wrote: — 'Religious pro- 
phets were more prudent than I ; 
they commonly formed their predic- 
tions «/?^ events, not before. ... Not 
but the Administration was beaten 
again yesterday ; yet only by two.' 
Ib,y p. 349. On the 25th, the date of 
Johnson's letter, he wrote : — * Dun- 
ning moved yesterday to address the 
King that the Parliament might not 
be prorogued or dissolved till the 
demands of the petitions [respecting 
an economical reform, &c.] are satis- 
fied. The motion was rejected by 
254 to 203. . . . The session will 
probably end much sooner than was 
expected.' Ib,y p. 357. Parliament 
was dissolved in the following Sep- 
tember. ParL Hist, xxi. 767. 

^ ' Mr. Evans.' Baretti. Post, 
p. 154. 

* 'Mr. Perkins.* Baretti. See 
Ufiy iii. 440, for an address to the 
Electors written for Thrale by John- 
son. 

How 



146 



To Mrs, Thrale. 



[A.D. 1780. 



How do you think I live? On Thursday I dined with 
Hamilton *, and went thence to Mrs. Ord '. On Friday, with 
much company at Reynolds's. On Saturday, at Dr. Bells ^ 
On Sunday, at Dr. Burney's, with your two sweets from Kensing- 
ton, who are both well ; at night came Mrs. Ord, Mr. Harris *, 
and Mr. Greville ^ &c. On Monday, with Reynolds ^, at night 
with Lady Lucan ; to-day with Mr. Langton ; to-morrow with 
the Bishop of St. Asaph ^ ; on Thursday with Mr. Bowles ® ; 

Friday, ; Saturday, at the Academy'; Sunday, with 

Mr. Ramsay *°. 

I told Lady Lucan how long it was since she sent to me ; but 
she said I must consider how the world rolls about her. She 
seemed pleased that we met again ". 

The long intervals of starving I do not thmk best for Mr. 
Thrale, nor perhaps for myself, but I knew not how to attain 
any thing better ; and every body tells me that I am very well, 
and I think there now remains not much cause for complaint : 
but O for a glass, once in four-and-twenty hours, of warm water ! 
Can warm water be had only at Bath, as steam was to be found 



' William Gerard Hamilton. 

' Perhaps it was the evening de- 
scribed by Hannah More. *I was 
the other night at Mrs. Ord's. Every- 
body was there, and in such a crowd 
I thought myself well off to be 
wedged in with Mr. Smelt, Langton, 
Ramsay and Johnson. Johnson told 
me he had been with the King that 
morning, who enjoined him to add 
Spenser to his Lives of the Poets, 
I seconded the motion ; he promised 
to think of it, but said the booksellers 
had not included him in their list of 
the poets.' H. More*s Memoirs^ i. 
174. Of this interview with the 
King nothing more is known than 
we learn here. 

^ Probably the Rev. Dr. Bell, Pre- 
bendary of Westminster. Life^ ii. 
204, n, I. See ante^ i. 1 18 ; ii. 62, n. 2. 

* * Hermes* Harris, *a sound sullen 
scholar,' but ' a prig and a bad prig.' 
Life^ iii. 245. Miss Bumey describes 



him as ' a most charming old man.' 
Early Diary of Frances Bumey^ ii. 
97. Perhaps this Sunday evening at 
Dr. Bumey's Johnson heard ' a little 
concert,' as the Dean of Winchester 
had heard one on a Sunday evening 
a few years earlier, and was not 
shocked. lb, ii. 114. 

* Richard Fulke Greville. Ante^ 
i. 60, n, 2. 

* * Reynolds's pocket-book has " 4. 
Dr. Johnson, Lady Lucan." ' Leslie 
and Taylor's Reynolds^ ii. 287. * 4/ 
I suppose, is the hour of the dinner. 

' Dr. Shipley. Ante^ i. 400. 

^ Johnson visited him in 1783 at 
his seat at Heale, near Salisbury. 
Ufe^ iv. 234, 

* Post^ p. 1 50. 

'** Allan Ramsay, the portrait 
painter, son of Allan Ramsay, the 
poet, a man who could give 'a 
splendid dinner.' Ufe^ iii. 336. 
Ante^ ii. 65, iii. 

only 



II 



Aetot. 70.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



H7 



only at Knightsbridge ^ Nature distributes her gifts, they say, 
variously, to show us that we have need of one another ; and in 
her bounty she bestowed warm water upon Bath, and condemned 
the inhabitants of other places, if they would warm their water, 
to make a fire. I would have the young ladies take half a glass 
every third day, and walk upon it. 

I not only scour the town from day to day, but many visitors 
come to me in the morning ; so that my work makes no great 
progress, but I will try to quicken it. I should certainly like to 
bustle a little among you, but I am unwilling to quit my post 
till I have made an end *. 

You did not tell me in your last letter how Mr. Thrale goes 
on. If he will be ruled, for aught appears ^ he may live on these 
hundred year s^. Fix him when he comes in alternate diet. 

I am, dearest Lady, 

Your, &c., 
London, April 25, 178a SaM : JOHNSON. 

Now there is a date ; look at it. 



663. 

To Mrs. Thrale*. 

Dearest Madam, 

Mr. Thrale never will ILve abstinently, till he can persuade 
himself to abstain by rule. I lived on potatoes on Friday, and 
on spinach to-day ; but I have had, I am afraid, too many dinners 



' For the glass of hot water, see 
ante^ ii. 140. 'I knew a lady/ said 
Johnson, 'who came up from Lin- 
colnshire to Knightsbridge with one 
of her daughters, and gave five 
guineas a week for a lodging and 
a warm bath ; that is, mere warm 
water. Tkaty you know, could not 
be had in Lincolnshire t She said, 
it was made either too hot or too 
cold there.' Ufe^ v. 286. 

• Of his Lives. 

^ 'Had he been ruled, for aught 
appears, 
He might have lived these 
twenty years.' 



On the death of Dr. Swift. Swift's 
Works ^ ed. 1803, xi. 245. 

* Pioszi Letters y ii. 109. 

Bos well gives in the Life^ ill. 421, 
a letter from Mrs. Thrale to Johnson, 
dated April 28 of this year, thus 
prefacing it : — * shall present my 
readers with one of her original letters 
to him at this time, which will amuse 
them probably more than those well- 
written but studied epistles which 
she has inserted in her collection, 
because it exhibits the easy vivacity 
of their literary intercourse.* He 
gives moreover part of Johnson's 
reply — the letter in the text 

L 2 of 



148 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A.D. 1780. 



of late. I took physick* too both days, and hope to fast to- 
morrow. When he comes home, we will shame him, and Jebb* 
shall scold him into regularity. I am glad, however, that he 
is always one of the company, and that my dear Queeney is 
again another. Encourage, as you can, the musical girl ^ 

Nothing is more common than mutual dislike where mutual 
approbation b particularly expected. There is often on both 
sides a vigilance not over benevolent ; and as attention is strongly 
excited, so that nothing drops unheeded, any difference in taste 
or opinion, and some difference where there is no restraint will 
commonly appear, it \sic\ immediately generates dislike *. 

Never let criticisms operate upon your face or your mind ; it 
is very rarely that an author is hurt by his criticks '. The blaze 
of reputation cannot be blown out, but it often dies in the socket ; 
a very few names may be considered as perpetual lamps that 
shine unconsumed. From the author of Fitzosbome's Letters ^ 



' By physick Johnson in these 
Letters always, I think, means 'a 
purge.* In his Dictionary he defines 
physick^ in its third meaning, as ' in 
common phrase, a purge.' 

» Sir Richard Jebb. Horace Wal- 
pole writing of him on Jan. 29 of this 
year says : — * Sir Richard Jebb pro- 
nounced the poor girl in a consump- 
tion ; but he is such a raven that I 
did not believe him, nor do.' Letters^ 
vii. 320. Miss Burney wrote the 
following year: — *Dr. Johnson is 
very good and very clubable, but Sir 
R. Jebb is quite a scourge to me. 
He is so haughty, so impracticable a 
creature.' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary y 
ii. 9. 

' Mrs. Thrale had written : — * Poor 
Queene/s sore eyes have just re- 
leased her ; she had a long confine- 
ment, and could neither read nor 
write, so my master treated her very 
good-naturedly with the visits of a 
young woman in this town, a taylor's 
daughter, who professes musick, and 
teaches so as to give six lessons a 



day to ladies, at five and threepence 
a lesson. Miss Burney says she is 
a great performer ; and I respect the 
wench for getting her living so 
prettily: she is very modest and 
pretty-mannered, and not seventeen 
years old.' Life^ iii. 422. 

* Mrs. Thrale had written : — * Yes- 
terday's evening was passed at Mrs. 
Montagu's : there was Mr. Melmoth, 
I do not like him though^ nor he me ; 
it was expected we should have 
pleased each other ; he is, however, 
just Tory enough to hate the Bishop 
of Peterborough for Whiggism, and 
Whig enough to abhor you for 
Toryism.' lb, 

5 Mrs. Thrale had written: — *I 
felt my regard for you in my face last 
night when the criticisms were going 
on.' lb. For the silence with which 
attacks should be met, see Ufe^ ii. 
61, n. 4. 

* Mr. Melmoth, * Pliny' Melmoth 
as he was called. lb, iii. 422, n, 2 ; 
iv. 272, n, 4. 

I cannot 



A0ftftt.7O.] 



To Mrs. TkraU. 



149 



I cannot think myself in much danger. I met him only once 
about thirty years ago, and in some small dispute reduced him 
to whistle ; having not seen him since, that is the last impression. 
Poor Moore the fabulist * was one of the company. 

Mrs. Montague's long stay, against her own inclination, is very 
convenient. You would, by your own confession, want a com- 
panion ; and she is par pluribus^ conversing with her you may 
find variety in one '. 

At Mrs. Ord's I met one Mrs. B ^, a travelled lady, of 

great spirit, and some consciousness of her own abilities. We 
had a contest of gallantry an hour long, so much to the diversion 
of the company, that at Ramsay's last night, in a crowded room, 
they would have pitted us again. There were Smelt*, and the 
Bishop of St. Asaph, who comes to every place ^; and Lord 
Monboddo^ and Sir Joshua, and ladies out of tale. 



' The author of Fables for the 
Female Sex^ and of the tragedy of 
The Gamester^ and editor of The 
World, Goldsmith, in his Present 
State of Polite Learning (ch. x.), 
after describing the sufferings of 
authors, continues : — ' Let us not 
then aggravate those natural incon- 
veniences by neglect; we have had 
sufficient instances of this kind al- 
ready. Sale and Moore will suffice 
for one age at least. But they are 
dead, and their sorrows are over.' 
* 'For here the false unconstant 
lover, 
After a thousand beauties 
shown. 
Does new surprising charms 
discover, 
And finds variety in one.' 

The spectator^ No. 47a 
' Mrs. Buller. Miss Bumey de- 
scribes her as ' tall and elegant in her 
person ; she is a famous Greek 
scholar, a celebrated traveller upon 
the Continent to see customs and 
manners; and a woman every way 
singular for her knowledge and enter- 



prising way of life.* Mme. D'Arblay's 
Diary, ii. 243. H. C. Robinson 
describes her in 181 1 as 'a most 
accomplished lady of the old school. 
The poems of Scott and Southey she 
has put into her Index Expurga- 
torius. She cannot bear the irregu- 
larity of their versification.' H. C. 
Robinson's Diary ^ i. 321. See also 
ib. p. 392. 

^ Leonard Smelt was sub-governor 
to the 'Prince of Wales (George IV). 
For his 'singular virtues and char- 
acter' see Walpole's Memoirs of 
George Illy iv. 312. He is often 
mentioned in Mme. D'Arblay*s 
Diary. 

* *Dr. Johnson disapproved of 
bishops going to routs, at least of 
their staying at them longer than 
their presence commanded respect. 
He mentioned a particular bishop. 
"Poh! (said Mrs. Thrale) the 

Bishop of is never minded at 

a rout."' Life, iv. 75. The Bishop 
of St. Asaph was most likely the one 
censured. 

* See Life^ v. 74, for Johnson's visit 

The 



I ^o To Mrs, TkraU, 'ajl ixsa 



The C3diibfti(xi. how viH yoa do. ctfaer to see cc riiic :c- see ! 
The cxhibctioQ is eminenth' ^Mesdid. There is c:ct:4=r. asd 

■3{ 2r^* 



excellence '. The amrtmaits were tnalv vcrr aprbCe- 1 r> 



pictures, for the sake of a sky l^:ht, are at the top of tbe br< 
diere we dined, and I sat orer against the Arrhhc^hzp of Y:rk * 



to Monboddo's boose ia 1773. *I the Roval 

knev tbey od not kn« each ocber/ Hocse is cperrd. It s ocs a 

vzites BosveSL When tfaer met m Roosiii palace, aad mrTsftr<^ =r per- 

17S4 at a ^imd's hoczse BosweO ice lasae as veu as b^cafieas ex- 

o bicw pd tbat 'Monboddo amided pease, h vooid kave beer a ^isxcs 

any cxanDDDakaxkai vitk Jctfaasoo.* a ppaiigicn ar die fgy-fconp of ibe 

Ih. IT. 273. aL I. Beattie ■wm^mwjc S'^eat war: aov £ is as rwoV cc ocr 

' MoDboddons hatred cf Johosoo, pwqti and degcadaskaB.' Ltt^err, 



aaithi a i^ severe cf hioL' Fcxbes^'s 'Mr. Sevaxd sav Dr. Jo&ssoa 

/KMtttf;pL333. MoDboddo's ooBceit preseBoec »> uae .\rc^bcsbc9 4se York. 

wa^bL hsBY ptumiLed ndacsle. Locd and described bis B-nr zi mm Aslch- 

Haiies sars ia a aote z—^ Lord Moo- BiSBOF. as ssdi a 

sud tt» me, 33 Dec I/Sq^ I tioa of booa^ge. sack aa cxrcsssace cf 

of aatiuuki e s Smb. sack a ^liae cf 



xt: Hist. hr. 19S. J 
MSSl Conrni 1874. pL 552. Jofan- 




r. 



- — cs^ £7eA« 
of AyrL I7£2] ptofi o sed giory vas Dr. MaikbaTT : be vas a 



zboci SBOotsa, to 3irs. till portly nan, aad " iigb be be^ 

aod Tatar's Rtj^ his headl* He zuiried a Ihitcb 

3. 36s. voonn, vbo broo^t biza a cmsader- 

repfied:— -^la abfekxtsne. He bad a iir?c C3»=:::y 

fid I e«er pilagae yoc aboos cooccGr, of cJassical ksxym-jed^^ K» bosiacss 

aad giace. aad CEpressaonr I bxiv was latber in cccnz=^ :be pea: d;&3 

dieaided d^es al tirec scsce that in accadin^ to tbe sic2kk>1 A=y 

hapiesB day a: Ccccpc^gae. when 500 excuse serred his pcrpose ice deaen> 

teacd xae sac aad llr. Tkiale made in; Ics post. He bad a |::«£: cul 

wias I l»ped wodki have proi^ a of pooipv espedaly wbea be hnod 

iascsaj peace.' Pu^zxi LOiirs, u. his hiad. waved *iu anc lepcaitc 

ii^_ Lataa ircrses. If tbe bws pericwmed 

Roral Acaoeasy dus year, their tasks wti, it was wt^ : a CL ii 

fis txae. bekl 'ts £]di3- was not tbe iess weill We s^ood 

Somerset Hocse. Lesbe prod^gicxoshr in awe oc* id=: : sadced 

asd Tayjor s Rnm^^di^ iL 2&&. be was an oi]^cc: c« adccaDcc " Bcc:- 

H<aaoe Walpode wroce ear^ in horn^s W^rkt^ x. ^cx 
May:— *Yoc kiM?w. I 



Aetoi. 70.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



151 



See how I live when I am not under petticoat govern- 
ment'. 

I am, &c., 

Sam: Johnson, 

London, May i, 1780. 

Mark that — you did not put the year to your last*. 

664. 



Madam, 
Mr. P- 



To Mrs. Thrale ^ 

Bolt-court, Fleet-street, May 7, 1780. 
— * has just been with me, and has talked much 
talk, of which the result is, that he thinks your presence neces- 
sary for a few days. I have not the same fulness of conviction ; 
but your appearance would certainly operate in your favour, and 
you will judge better what measures of diligence and of expence 

are necessary. Money, Mr. P says, must be spent ; and he 

is right in wishing that you be made able to judge how far it is 
spent properly. Perhaps, it is but perhaps, some desire that 
I have of seeing you, makes me think the better of his reasons. 

Can you leave Master ? Can you appoint Mrs. governess ? 

If you can, the expence of coming is nothing, and the trouble 
not much; and therefore it were better gfratify your agents. 
Levy behaves well. 

I dined on Wednesday with Mr. Fitzmaurice, who almost 
made me promise to pass part of the Summer at Llewenny^. 
To-morrow I dine with Mrs. Southwel ^ ; and on Thursday with 
Lord Lucan. To-night I go to Miss Monkton's^. Thus I 



' AnUf ii. 141, n. 2. 

" She had succeeded in putting 
the day of the month — ^April 28. 

' Piozzi Letters^ ii. 112. 

* 'Perkins.' Baretti. 

' Johnson with the Thrales had 
stayed at Lleweney Hall in Den- 
bighshire in 1774. It was then the 
residence of Mrs. Thrale*s cousin 
Robert Cotton, U/ey v. 435. In her 
utter indifference to dates and ac- 
curacy she said that it had stood a 
thousand years. Hay ward's Piozzi^ 
ii. 206. It was afterwards bought 



by the Hon. Thomas Fitzmaurice, 
brother of the Earl of Shelbume. 
Pennant's Wales^ ed. 1810, ii. 144. 
For Johnson's intimacy with the 
Earl see Life, iv. 191. See also anie^ 
ii. 81. 

* For the Southwells see ante^ i. 
205, «. 3. 

' * The lively Miss Monckton (now 
Countess of Corke), who used to 
have the finest til of blue at the 
house of her mother, Lady Galway.* 
Life^ iv. 108. The bit of blue is an 
allusion to the Blue-stocking Club. lb, 

scramble, 



152 To Mrs. Thrale. [A.D.1780. 

scramble, when you do not quite .shut me up ; but I am miserably 
under petticoat government, and yet am not very weary, nor 
much ashamed. 

Pray tell my two dear girls that I will write to both of them 
next week ; and let Burney know that I was so angry — 

I am, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

I know of Mrs. Desmoulines* letter*. It will be a great charity. 
Let me know when you are to come. 

666. 

To Mrs. Thrale*. 

Dear Madam, Bolt-court, Fleet-street, May 8, 1780. 

Would you desire better sympathy — At the very time when 
you were writing, I was answering your letter. 

Having seen nobody since I saw Mr. P ^, I have little 

more to say, than when I wrote last. My opinion is, that you 
should come for a week, and shew yourself, and talk in high 
terms ; for it will certainly be propagated with great diligence, 
that you despair and desist; and to those that declare the 
contrary, it will be answered. Why then do they not appear? 
To this no reply can be made that will keep your friends in 
countenance. A little bustle and a little ostentation will put 
a stop to clamours, and whispers, and suspicions of your friends, 
and calumnies of your opponents. Be brisk, and be splendid, 
and be publick. You will probably be received with much 
favour ; and take from little people the opportunity which your 
absence gives them of magnifying their services, and exalting 
their importance. You may have more friends and fewer ob- 
ligations. 

It is always necessary to shew some good opinion of those 
whose good opinion we solicit. Your friends solicit you to come ; 
if you do not come, you make them less your friends, by dis- 
regarding their advice. Nobody will persist long in helping those 
that will do nothing for themselves. 

' For Mrs. Desmoulines, see ante^ ■ Ptozsi Letters, ii. 1 14. 
ii. 42, «. a. ' * Perkins.* Baretti. 

The 



▲eUi. 70.] 



To Mrs. Thrale, 



153 



The voters of the Borough are too proud and too little 
dependant to be solicited by deputies ; they expect the gratifica- 
tion of seeing the candidate bowing or curtseying before them. 
If you are proud, they can be sullen *. 

Such is the call for your presence ; what is there to withhold 
you? I see no pretence for hesitation. Mr. Thrale certainly 
shall not come ; and yet somebody must appear whom the people 
think it worth the while to look at *. 

Do not think all this while that I want to see you. — I dine on 
Thursday at Lord Lucan's, and on Saturday at Lady Craven's ; 
and I dined yesterday with Mrs. Southwel. 

As to my looks at the Academy, I was not told of them ; and 
as I remember, I was very well, and I am well enough now, and 

' Dearest Lady, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

666. 

To Mrs. Thrale ^ 

Dear Madam, Bolt-court, Fleet-street, May 9, 178a 

This morning brought me the honour of a visit from Sir 

Phih'p \ who has been to survey Streatham, and thinks it will be 

long before you can return thither ; which he considers as a loss 

to himself of many pleasant days which your residence might 

have afforded. We then talked about our mistress, and * ; 

and I said you had most wit, and most literature. 



' 'A Borough election,' writes Mrs. 
Piozzi, * once showed me Mr. John- 
son's toleration of boisterous mirth. 
A rough fellow, a hatter by trade, 
seeing his beaver in a state of decay 
seized it suddenly with one hand, and 
clapping him on the back with the 
other, '^Ah, Master Johnson/' says 
be, *^ this is no time to be thinking 
about Ao/x." "No, no. Sir," replies 
our Doctor in a cheerful tone, '' hats 
are of no use now, as you say, except 
to throw up in the air and huzza 
with," accompanying his words with 
the true election halloo.' PiozzCs 



Anecdotes y p. 214. 

• Johnson wrote on October 17 : — 
' Mr. Thrale's loss of health has lost 
him the election.' Ufe^ iii. 442. 

' Piozzi Letters, ii. 124. 

^ Sir Philip Jennings Clerk. Ante^ 
ii. 5 n. 2. 

' *Mrs. Montagu for a penny.' 
Baretti. ' As to Mrs. Montagu she 
reasons well, and harangues well, but 
wit she has none. Mrs. Thrale has 
almost too much ; for when she is in 
spirits it bursts forth in a torrent 
almost overwhelming.' Mme. D'Ar- 
blay's Diary^ i. 335. 

Mr. Evans 



154 



To Mrs. Tkrale. 



[A.D. 1780. 



Mr. Evans* brought me your letter, to which I had already 
sent the answer ; nor have I any thing to add, but that the more 
I reflect, and the more I hear, the more I am convinced of the 
necessity of your presence. Your adversaries will be for ever 
saying, that you despair of success, or disdain to obtain it by the 
usual solicitation. Either of these suppositions generally re- 
ceived ruins your interest, and your appearance confutes both. 

Cette Anne si belle, 
Qu'on vante si fort, 
Pourquoi ne vient t'elle ? 
Vraiment elle a tort. 

While you stay away your friends have no answer to give. 

Mr. P , as I suppose you know, has refused to join with 

H ', and is thought to be in more danger than Mr. Thrale. 

Of *s letter, I would have you not take any notice ; he 

is a man of no character. 

My Lives creep on. I have done Addison, Prior, Rowe, 
Granville, Sheffield, Collins, Pitt, and almost Fenton. I design 
to take Congreve next into my hand. I hope to have done 
before you can come home, and then whither shall I go ^ ? 

What comes of my dear, sweet, charming, lovely, pretty, 
little Queeney's learning*? This is a sad long interruption, and 



' Ante, i. 393, n. 2. 

■ Mr. P was Nathaniel Polhill, 

Thrale's colleague ; H was Sir 

Richard Hotham. At the close of 
the poll on September 15, the num- 
bers were : — 

Hotham . . . 1177 
Polhill .... 1025 
Thrale .... 769 
Annual Register J 1780, i. 227. 
' On August 21 Johnson wrote to 
Boswell : — ' I have sat at home in 
Bolt-court, all the summer, thinking 
to write the UveSy and a great part 
of the time only thinking. Several 
of them, however, are done, and I 
still think to do the rest.' Ufe^ iii. 
435. They were finished in March, 
1781. lb, iv. 34. 



* He was thinking of the Latin 
lessons which he gave her. Anie^ 
ii. 98, /f. 2. Miss Bumey nine months 
earlier describes her as * coldly civil 
as usual.' Of her singing she says : — 
* Her voice is very sweet, and will 
improve with practice. She has 
much to dOy but nothing to undo\ 
however, " Manca ranima^ e Vanima 
sempre mancara.^' * Early Diary of 
Frances Bumey ^ ii. 257, 9. Char- 
lotte Bumey, writing of her two years 
later, says : — * Miss Thrale was to my 
no small astonishment civil to me, 
and sat by me the whole evening. 
She has taken it into her head to be 
civil to people this winter, I hear.' 
lb, p. 306. 

wicked 



Aei»t.7o.] To the Reverend Thomas Warton. 



155 



the wicked world will make us no allowance, but will call 
us . 

Lady Lucan says, she hears Queeney is wonderfully accom- 
plished, and I did not speak ill of her. 

Did I tell you that Scot and Jones both offer themselves to 
represent the University in the place of Sir Roger Newdigate ^ 
They are struggling hard for what others think neither of them 
will obtain. 

I am not grown fat. I did thrive a little, but I checked the 
pernicious growth, and am now small as before. 

I am, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

667. 

To THE Reverend Thomas Warton'. 

Sir, Bolt Court, Fleet Street, May 9, 1780. 

I have your pardon to ask for an involuntary fault. In 

a parcel sent from Mr. Boswell I found the enclosed letter, which, 

without looking on the direction, I broke open ; but, finding 



" Newdigate, who had been mem- 
ber since 175 1 {Pari, Hist, xiv. 76), 
was retiring. To obtain the seat 
Jones * would,* he said, * have cheer- 
fully sacrificed to it not only an 
Indian Judgeship of six thousand a 
year, but a Nabobship with as many 
millions.' Finding however that he 
had no chance of success he with- 
drew, and offered to support Dr. 
Scott (afterwards Lord Stowell). 
Life of Sir W. Jones y pp. 216, 228, 
231. Scott also withdrew, and Sir 
William Dolben and Francis Page 
were elected without opposition. 
Jackson's Oxford Journal^ Sep- 
tember 16, 1780. It is not the only 
time in the history of the University 
that the men of acres have triumphed 
over the men of learning. In the 
Pari, Hist, xxi. 780 Newdigate is 
wrongly entered as elected in 1780. 
Scott in 1 80 1 succeeded Page. 



Horace Walpole wrote to Mason in 
1780 : — * Mr. Jones, the orientalist, 
is candidate for Oxford. On Tuesday 
was se*nnight Mrs. Vesey presented 
him to me. The next day he sent 
me an absurd and pedantic letter, 
desiring I would make interest for 
him. I answered it directly, and 
told him I had no more connection 
with Oxford than with the Antipodes, 
nor desired to have.' He adds : — 
*The man, it seems, is a staunch 
Whig, but very wrong-headed.' 
Letters^ vii. 361. It seems strange 
to our notions that the strength of 
a staunch Whig should lie, as Jones 
said his did, * among the non-resi- 
dent voters.' Life ofjones^ p. 224. 

' First published in Croker's BoS' 
welly page 647. 

For Thomas Warton see Lifey i. 
270. 

I did 



1 56 To the Reverend Dr. Joseph Warton. [a.d. 1780. 

I did not understand it, soon saw it belonged to you. I am 

sorry for this appearance of a fault, but believe me it is only the 

appearance. I did not read enough of the letter to know its 

purport. 

I am, Sir, 

Your most humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 



668. 

To THE Reverend Dr. Joseph Warton '. 

Dear Sir, May 23, 1780. 

It is unnecessary to tell you how much I was obliged by 
your useful memorials. The shares of Fenton and Broome in the 
Odyssey I had before from Mr. Spence. Dr. Warburton did not 
know them *. I wish to be told, as the question is of great 
importance in the poetical world, whence you had your intelli- 
gence ; if from Spence, it shows at least his consistency; if from 
any other, it confers corroboration. If any thing useful to me 
should occur, I depend upon your friendship. Be pleased to 
make my compliments to the ladies of your house, and to the 
gentleman that honoured me with the Greek Epigrams, when 
I had, what I hope sometime to have again, the pleasure of 
spending a little time with you at Winchester ^ 

I am, dear Sir, 

Your most obliged 

and most humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 



' First published in Wooll's Me- 
moirs of Dr. Wartofiy page 39a 

■ * Pope, weary of the toil, called 
Fenton and Broome to his assistance ; 
and, taking only half the work upon 
himself, divided the other half be- 
tween his partners, giving four books 
to Fenton and eight to Broome.' In 
a note ' he mentions only five books 
as written by the coadjutors. ... A 
natural curiosity after the real con- 
duct of so great an undertaking, in- 
cited me once to inquire of Dr. 



Warburton, who told me in his warm 
language, that he thought the relation 
given in the note "a lie"; but that 
he was not able to ascertain the 
several shares. The intelligence which 
Dr. Warburton could not afford me, 
I obtained from Mr. Langton, to 
whom Mr. Spence had imparted it.' 
Johnson's Works^ viii. 230. See also 
ib. pp. 56, 273, 338. 

' For Johnson's visit, see Life^ i. 
496, /f. 2 ; iii. 367. 

To 



Aetat. 70.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



157 



669. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 
Dear Madam, May 23, 1780. 

Your letter told me all the good news. Mr. Thrale well, 
Queeney good, and yourself not so ill but that you know how to 
be made well ; and now — is gone ', you have the sole and 
undivided empire of Bath ; and you talk to many whom you 
cannot make wiser, and enjoy the foolish face of praise '. 

But * and you have had, with all your adulations, 

nothing finer said of you than was said last Saturday night of 

Burke and me. We were at the Bishop of 's, a bishop 

little better than your bishop * ; and towards twelve we fell into 
talk, to which the ladies listened, just as they do to you ; and 
said, as I heard, there is no rising unless somebody will cry 
fire. 

I was last night at Miss Monkton's ; and there were Lady 
Craven and Lady Cranbume, and many ladies and few men. 
Next Saturday I am to be at Mr. Pepys's^ and in the inter- 
mediate time am to provide for myself as I can. 

You cannot think how doggedly I left your house on Friday 



' Piozzi Letters^ ii. 127. 

Mrs. Thrale had returned to Lon- 
don from Bath on electioneering 
business. ' Let me see you at the 
Borough-house as soon as I get 
there,' she wrote to Johnson on May 
9. * Everybody says I must come up 
directly.' Piozzi Letters y ii. 122. 
Miss Bumey, who had accompanied 
her, describes her as Mnvolved in 
business, electioneering, canvassing 
and letter-writing.' On the morning 
of their return to Bath, * we rose,' 
she writes, *at four o'clock, and 
when we came down stairs, to our 
great surprise found Dr. Johnson 
waiting to receive and breakfast with 
us.' They reached Bath that same 
day. Mme. D'Arblay's Diary ^ i. 354. 

* * Mrs. Montagu we miss cruelly.' 
lb. p. 357. 



' Pope. Prologue to the Satires^ 
1. 212. 

^ Miss Bumey. 

' The first Bishop was most likely 
the Bishop of St. Asaph, and the 
second Hinchliffe, Bishop of Peter- 
borough, who was at Bath. ' He 
adores, and is adored in return by 
Mrs. Thrale.' Mme. D'Arblay's 
Diary y i- 35^. 

^ For Miss Monckton see ante^ 
ii. 151, n. 7, and for Lady Craven, 
ii. 143. Lady Cranboume's husband 
succeeded his father this year as 
seventh Earl of Salisbury. In 1789 
he was created Marquis. She met 
a miserable end in the fire which 
burnt the west wing of Hatfield 
House on November 27, 1835. ^^ 
grandson is the present Marquis. 
For Pepys, see antey ii. 136, n. i. 

My 



158 



To John Nichols, 



[A.D. 1780. 



morning, and yet Mrs. Abbess gave me some mushrooms ; but 
what are mushrooms without my mistress ? 

My master has seen his hand-bill * ; will he stand to it ? 
I have not heard a word from the Borough since you went 
away. 

Dr. Taylor is coming hastily to town, that he may drive his 
lawsuit forward. He seems to think himself very well. This 
lawsuit will keep him in exercise, and exercise will keep him well- 
It is to be wished that the law may double its delays. If Dr. 
Wilson dies, he will take St. Margaret's, and then he will have 
the bustle of the parish to amuse him *. I expect him every 
day. 

I am, dear Lady, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

670. 

To John Nichols ^ 

[? May, 1780.] 

In reading Rowe in your edition, which is very impudently 

called mine, I observed a little piece unnaturally and odiously 

obscene. I was offended, but was still more offended when 

I could not find it in Rowe's genuine volumes. To admit it had 

been wrong ; to interpolate it is surely worse. If I had known 

of such a piece in the whole collection, I should have been angry. 

What can be done ? 



' No doubt his Address to the 
Electors. Ante^ ii. 145. 

■ For Dr. Taylor's law-suit in 1776, 
see antCy i. 379. Dr. Wilson had 
the living of St. Margaret's, West- 
minster. He lived nearly four years 
longer. Posty p. 163, and Letter of 
May 13, 1784. 

' First published in the Gentle- 
man*s Magazine for 1785, page 10. 

Johnson, it must be remembered, 
was not the editor of The English 
Poets. *The edition,' writes Bos- 
well, 'for which he was to write 
Prefaces and Lives, was not an 



undertaking directed by him : he 
was to furnish a Preface and Life 
to any poet the booksellers pleased. 
I asked him if he would do this to 
any dunce's works, if they should ask 
him. Johnson. " Yes, Sir ; and say 
he was a dunce."' Li/e, iii. 137. 
Nichols says in a note to the Gentle- 
mafCs Magazine^ that the piece of 
which Johnson complained ^ has not 
only appeared in the Works of Rowe, 
but has been transplanted by Pope 
into the Miscellanies he published in 
his own name and that of Dean 
Swift.' 

To 



Aetot. 70.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



159 



671. 

To John Nichols'. 

[May 24, 1780.] 

Mr. Johnson is obliged to Mr. Nicol for his communication, 
and must have Hammond again. Mr. Johnson would be glad of 
Blackmore's Essays for a few days. 



672. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 

Dear Madam, 

Here has been Dr. Lawrence with me, and I showed him your 
letter ; and you may easily believe we had some talk about my 
master^ He said, however, little that was new, except this, 
which is of great importance, that if ever he feels any uncommon 
sensation in his head, such as, heaviness, pain, or noise, or giddi- 
ness, he should have immediate recourse to some evacuation, and 
thinks a cathartick most eligible. He told me a case of a lady, 
who said she felt a dizziness, and would bleed ; to bleed, how- 
ever, she neglected, and in a few days the dizziness became an 
apoplexy. He says, but do not tell it, that the use of Bath 
water, as far as it did any thing, did mischief. He presses 
abstinence very strongly, as that which must do all that can be 
done ; and recommends the exercise of walking, as tending more 
to extenuation* than that of riding. 



* First published in the Gentle- 
mar^s Magazine for 1785, page 
10. 

Johnson says of Blackmore's 
Essays that ^they can be com- 
mended only as they are written for 
the highest and noblest purpose, the 
promotion of religion. Blackmore's 
prose is not the prose of a poet ; for 
it is languid, sluggish, and lifeless ; 
his diction is neither daring nor 
exact, his flow neither rapid nor easy, 
and his periods neither smooth nor 
strong. His account of wit will show 
with how litde clearness he is content 
to think, and how little his thoughts 



are recommended by his language.' 
Works, viii. 43. 

* Piozzi Letters^ ii. 135. 

^ Mrs. Thrale had written that * the 
one glass of water,' which Mr. Thrale 
took every day at Bath, caused dizzi- 
ness, lb, ii. 131. 

* Dr. Norman Moore, whom I 
have consulted on this passage, in- 
forms me that he thinks Johnson 
means by ' extenuation ' reduction of 

fat. In his Dictionary he defines 
to extenuate, in its fifth meaning, as 
to make lean. See post. Letter of 
October 27, 1781, where it seems to 
mean ' loss of iiesh.' 

has 



i6o 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A.D. 1780. 



' has let out another pound of blood, and is come to 



town, brisk and vigorous, fierce and fell, to drive on his lawsuit 
Nothing in all life now can be more profligater than what he is ; 
and if^ in case, that so be, that they persist for to resist him, he is 
resolved not to spare no money, nor no time '. He is, I believe, 
thundering away. His solicitor has turned him off; and I think 
it not unlikely that he will tire his lawyers. But now don*t you 
talk. 

My dear Queeney, what a good girl she is. Pray write to me 
about her, and let me know her progress in the world. Bath is 
a good place for the initiation of a young lady. She can neither 
become negligent for want of observers, as in the country ; nor 
by the imagination that she lies concealed in the crowd, as in 
London. Lady Lucan told me, between ourselves, how much 
she had heard of Queeny*s accomplishments ; she must therefore 
now be careful, since she b^ns to have the public eye upon 
her. 

A lady has sent me a vial, like Mrs. Nesbit's' vial, of essence 
of roses. What am I come to ? 

Congreve, whom I dispatched at the Borough while I was 
attending the election*, is one of the best of the little lives ; but 
then I had your conversation. 

You seem to suspect that I think you too earnest about the 
success of your solicitation : if I gave you any reason for that 
suspicion, it was without intention. It would be with great dis- 
content that I should see Mr. Thrale decline the representation 
of the Borough, and with much greater should I see him ejected. 
To sit in Parliament for Southwark, is the highest honour that 
his station permits him to attain ^ ; and his ambition to attain it, 



' Dr. Taylor. Ante, ii. 158. He 
was in the habit of having himself 
bled periodically. UfCy iii. 152. 

* *This was the elegant phrase- 
ology of that doctor.' Baretti. 

' Mrs. Nesbitt was Mr. Thrale's 
sister. Ante^ i. 219, /i. 3. 

* Ante^ ii. 157, n. i. 

' Brewers had not as yet been 
nuule peers. Mrs. Piozzi, in a letter 



to Johnson just after her second mar- 
riage, said, it is stated : — * My second 
husband is a gentleman, which is 
more than could be said of my first.* 
Miss Hawkins's Memoirs^ i. 66. Bos- 
well, where he first speaks of Mr. 
Thrale, after mentioning his great 
wealth, says :—* There may be some 
who think that a new system of gen- 
tility might be established upon prin- 
ts 



Aetat. 70.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



i6i 



is surely rational and laudable. I will not say that for an honest 
man to struggle for a vote in the legislature, at a time when honest 
votes are so much wanted, is absolutely a duty, but it is surely 
an act of virtue. The expence, if it was more, I should wish him 
to despise'. Money is made for such purposes as this. And the 
method to which the trade is now brought, will, I hope, save him 
from any want of what he shall now spend. 

Keep Mr. Thrale well, and make him keep himself well, and 
put all other care out of your dear head. 

Sir Edward Littleton's business with me was to know the 
character of a candidate for a school at Brewood in Staffordshire ; 
to which, I think, there are seventeen pretenders'. 



ciples totally different from what have 
hitherto prevailed.' After stating 
'the specious but false arguments' 
for such a proposition he continues : — 
*To refute them is needless. The 
general sense of mankind cries out 
with irresistible force, " Un geniil- 
homme est toujours gentilhommeP^ 
Life, i. 491. Boswell seems at times 
to mark his sense of Mr. Thrale's 
inferiority by speaking of him as 
Thrale and his house as Thrale's. 
He never, I believe, is thus familiar 
in the case of Beauclerk, Burke, 
Langton, and Reynolds. 

' See Ufe^ ii. 1 53, where Johnson 
says : — * A very rich man from low 
beginnings may buy his election in 
a borough ; but, cateris paribus^ a, 
man of family will be preferred ; ' and 
V. 106, where he says that 'the 
Nabob will carry an election by 
means of his wealth in a country 
where money is highly valued, as it 
must be where nothing can be had 
without money.' In Moore's Lt/e of 
Sheridan^ ed. 1826, i. 405, is given an 
account of Sheridan's ' Expenses at 
the Borough of Stafford for Election, 
Anno 1 784.' The first entry is 

248 Burgesses paid £^^ 5^. each. . . . 



VOL. II. 



M 



' Johnson records that when he 
was at Hagley in 1774 he met at 
dinner Sir Edward Littleton of Staf- 
fordshire. Lifey v. 457. With Sir 
Edward's death the baronetcy ex- 
pired. He was succeeded in his 
estates by his grand-nephew, who in 
1835 was created Baron Hatherton. 
Burke's Peerage, 

Johnson himself forty-four years 
earlier had sought the post, not of 
master, but of an assistant to the 
master of Brewood School Ufe^ iv. 
407, n. 4. 

Pretender he merely defines as 
'one who lays claim to anything.' 
Its present meaning of 'one who 
falsely lays claim to a thing ' he does 
not mention. The title of Pretender 
therefore when first applied to the 
son of James II was nothing more 
than Claimant, By the time Bos- 
well published his Tour to the Hebri- 
des, and no doubt much earlier, it 
had acquired its secondary and offen- 
sive meaning. Boswell speaking of 
Charles Edward says :— * I do not 
call him the Pretender^ because it 
appears to me as an insult to one 
who is still alive, and, I suppose, 
thinks very differently.' Life^ v. 185. 

Do 



1 62 To Hemrj TkraU. 



Do noC I tell yoa every thing? wiut wouldst thoo more of 
fDan? It will, I htncy^ be necessary for you to come ap once 
2gadn zt least, to fix yoor firicnds and terrify your enemies. 
Take care to be tnformcd, as jroa can, of the ebb or flow of your 
interest; and do not lose at Capm die Tuitory of Cannae. 
I hope I need nottefl jrcxi, dear Madam, that 

I am, &C, 

Sam: Johnson. 

Tlnrsdajr, B€aj 25, it&jl 
Na S, Bolt-coart, Fleet-street, Itwuikwi 

hook at this, and learn*. 



To TH£ RXVERESD Dr. FaRMEK. 

[London] May 25, 1780. Pablisfaed in the Z^, iiL 427. 

674. 

To HEiotT Thrale*. 

Dear Sir, London, May 30, 1780. 

You never desired me to write to 3rou, and therefore cannot 
take it amiss that I have never written. I once began a letter, 
in which I intended to exhort you to resolute abstinence ; but I 
rejoice now that I never sent, nor troubled you with advice which 
you do not want. The advice that is wanted is commonly un- 
welcome, and that which is not wanted is evidently impertinent. 

The accounts of your health, and of your caution, with which 
I am furnished by my mistress, are just such as would be wished, 
and I congratulate you on your power over yourself, and on the 
success with which the exercise of that power has been hitherto 
rewarded. Do not remit your care ; for in your condition it is 
certain that security ^ will produce danger. 

You always used to tell me, that we could never eat too little ; 
the time is now come to both of us, in which your position is 
verified. I am really better than I have been for twenty years 

' She was to learn to date her ^ Johnson gives as the first mean- 
letters, ing of security y * carelessness ; free- 
' Pio88i Letters f ii. 139. dom from fear.' 

past; 



Aetat. 70.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



163 



past * ; and if you persist in your present laudable practice, you 

may liv^ to tell your great-grandchildren the advantages of 

abstinence. 

I have been so idle, that I know not when I shall get either to 

you, or to any other place ; for my resolution is to stay here till 

the work is finished, unless some call more pressing than I think 

likely to happen should summon me away. Taylor, who is gone 

away brisk and jolly, asked me when I would come to him, but 

I could not tell him. I hope, however, to see standing corn in 

some part of the earth this Summer, but I shall hardly smell hay, 

or suck clover flowers '. 

I am, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

676. 

To Mrs. Thrale^ 

Dear Madam, 

You mistake about Dr. Taylor's claim upon the Abbey ; the 
prebends are equal, but the senior prebendary has his choice of 
the livings that are in the gift of the chapter, of which St. Margaret's 
is one ; which if Wilson dies, he may take if he pleases *. He went 
home lusty and stout; having bustled ably about his lawsuit, 
which at last, I think, he will not get. 

Mr. Thrale, you say, was pleased to find that I wish him well ; 
which seems therefore to be a new discovery. I hoped he had 
known for many a year past that nobody can wish him better. 
It is strange to find that so many have heard of his fictitious re- 
lapse, and so few of his continual recovery. 

And you think to run me down with the Bishop and Mrs. 
Carter, and Sir James ^; and I know not whether you may not 

' See post, p. 181. It is worthy of did visit Brighton in October. Ufe^ 



notice that the great improvement in 
Johnson's health took place in the 
years when he was at work on the 
Lives of the Poets, It is very likely 
that the occupation, by keeping his 
mind from dwelling so much on 
itself, had benefited his bodily health. 
' He lost both his summer and his 
autumn ramble this year, though he 



ni. 453. 

^ Piozzi Letters, ii. 141. 

* Ante, ii. 158. 

^ The Bishop was the Bishop of 
Peterborough. Ante, ii. 157, n, 5. 
Miss Bumey, who was introduced to 
Mrs. Carter at Bath, describes her as 
* really a noble-looking woman ; I 
never saw age so graceful in the 



M % 



wm 



164 



To Mrs. Tkrale. 



[AJ). 1780. 



win a beat, now the town grows empty. Mrs. Vese>' suspects still 
that I do not love them since that skrimage^. But I bustle 
pretty wdL and shew myself here and there, and do not like 
to be quite lost. However, I have as many invitations to the 
country as you ; and I do not mind your breakfasts, nor your 



Langton b gone to be an engineer at Chatham ' ; and I sup- 
pose 3rou know that Jones and Scot oppose each other for what 
neither will have ^ 

If Mr. Thrale at all remits his vigilance, let the Doctor loose 

upon him. While he is watched he may be kept from mischief, 

but he never can be safe without a rule ; and no rule will he find 

equal to that which has been so often mentioned, of an alternate 

diet^; in which, at least in this season of v^etation, there is 

neither difficulty nor hardship. 

I am, dearest Madam, 

Your, &C., 

London, No. 8, Bolt-coart, Fleet-street. SaM : JOHNSON. 

June 6, 1780 \ 

Mind this, and tell Queeney. 



female sex yet ; her whole &ce seems 
to beam with goodness, piety and 
]^i]anthropy.' Mme. D'Arblay's 
Dui^y i. 373- Sir James was pro- 
bably the same man as Sir J. C 

who invited far more people to his 
party than his rooms would hold ; * a 
bawling old marL* lb. pp. 367, 376. 

' Neither skrimage nor scrimmage 
is in Johnson's Dictionary, It is 
the same word as skirmish. The 
' skrimage,* I suppose, was the party 
where he and Dr. Barnard * made a 
noise all the evening.' Ante^ ii. 136. 

' He was an officer in the Lincoln- 
shire militia. Ufey iii. 360. Jones, 
writing in the autumn of this year, 
says : — ' At Chatham I sought in \'ain 
for Mr. Langton among the new 
ravelines and counterscarps.' Ufe 
of Sir William Jotus, p. 235. He 
took a house at Rochester, where 
Johnson visited him in 1783. U/e^ iv. 



232. Johnson defines engineer as 
* one who manages engines ; one who 
directs the artillery of an army.' 

' Ante, ii. 155. 

* * Nobody ever had spirit enough 
to tell him that his fits were apoplectic; 
such is the blessing of being rich 
that nobody cares to speak out.' — 
Baretti. For * alternate diet ' see 
anie^ ii. 143. 

' It is strange that Johnson does 
not mention the Gordon Riots, of 
which he gives an account in his 
next letter to Mrs. Thrale. Miss 
Bumey recorded on June 9: — *Dr. 
Johnson has written to Mrs. Thrale, 
without even mentioning the exist- 
ence of this mob ; perhaps at this 
very moment he thinks it " a hum- 
bug upon the nation," as George Bo- 
dens caUed the parliament.' Mme. 
D'Arblay's Diaryy i. 401. The riot 
was rising to its worst while Johnson 

To 



Aatet. 70.] To the Reverend Dr. Taylor. 



165 



676. 

To THE Reverend Dr. Taylor '. 

Dear Sir, 
Just as you went away you asked me whether I thought 
mercury would do you any good '. I never had considered it 
before, but the mention of it made an impression upon me, and 
I am of opinion, that as your disorders apparently arise from an 
obstructed circulation, mercury may help you, I would have 
you try it cautiously, by adding two grains of calomel to your 
pill at night. Thus taken, it will remain in your body all night, 
and will be directed downwards in the morning. So small a 
quantity can have no sudden effect, good or evil, but if in a 
month you think yourself better continue it, if worse, leave it off, 
and rid yourself of it by a brisk purge. I hope it will do good. 
You will add very little to the bulk of your pill, and taste it has 
none, and as it is combined with a purgative it can never ac- 
cumulate. Let me know whether you take it or not. 

Be sure, whatever else you do, to keep your mind easy, and 

do not let little things disturb it ^ Bustle about your hay and 

your cattle, and keep yourself busy with such things as give you 

little solicitude. 

I am. Sir, 

Your affectionate St [servant], 

June 6, 1780. London^ SaM : JOHNSON. 

To the Reverend Dr. Taylor, in Ashbourne, Derbyshire. 



was writing, but no doubt he had 
posted his letter before Newgate was 
attacked. That in the midst of the 
general alarm he should have passed 
the whole tumult over in silence, 
and insisted on the importance of 
accurately dating a letter, is certainly 
a curious trait of character. Perhaps 
he did not want to alarm Mr. Thrale. 
In his Letter to Dr. Taylor of the 
same day he is equally reticent 

* From the original in the posses- 
sion of Mr. J. C. Brooks of Newcastle 
on Tyne. 

' For Johnson's 'dabbling in 



physic' see Ufe^ iii. 152. Miss 
Bumey wrote of him on September 
14, 1781 : — *Dr. Johnson has been 
very unwell indeed. Once I was 
quite frightened about him; but he 
continues his strange discipline — 
starving, mercury, opium ; and 
though for a time half demolished by 
its severity, he always in the end 
rises superior both to the disease and 
the remedy, which commonly is the 
most alarming of the two.' Mme. 
D'Arblay*s Diary y ii. 107. 

^ For the art of managing the mind 
see Ufe^ ii. 440; iii. 164. 

To 



1 66 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A.D. 1780. 



677. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 
Dear Madam, London, [Friday] June 9, 1780. 

To the question, Who was impressed with consternation ? it 
may with great truth be answered, that every body was impressed, 
for nobody was sure of his safety ". 



' Piozzi Letters y ii. 143. 

The riots described in this and the 
next few letters were caused by 
Protestant bigotry. The severe 
penal provisions against the Roman 
Catholics had been relaxed so far as 
England was concerned by an Act 
passed the year before. Popish 
priests, or Papists keeping school, 
were no longer liable to perpetual 
imprisonment The Catholics were 
still subject to all the penalties 
created in the reigns of Elizabeth, 
James I, Charles II, and in the first 
ten years of William III. Scotland 
was alarmed by the report that the 
Scotch Catholics were in like manner 
to be relieved. The spirit of bigotry 
broke out there into acts of violence 
and cruelty, and the Grovemment was 
timid and feeble. The success of 
these Scotch bigots seems to have 
given rise to the Protestant Associa- 
tion in England, of which Lord 
George Gordon was the head. Ann, 
Reg,, 1780, i. 254-6: 1781, i. 237. 
Horace Walpole wrote on February 
ii» 1779- — *The good people of 
Edinburgh have set but an ugly 
example. There has been a serious 
insurrection against the Papists, and 
two mass-houses were burnt, and the 
Provost quieted the tumult only by 
promising that the toleration of 
Popery should not be extended to 
Scotland.' Letters, vii. 174. On 
March 18 Burke, attacking the supine- 
ness of the Ministers towards the 
Scotch rioters, * hoped that Govern- 
ment was not dead but only asleep. 



At this moment he looked directly at 
Lord North who was asleep, and said 
in the Scripture phrase, " Brother 
Lazarus is not dead but sleepeth." 
The laugh was not more loud on one 
side of the House than on the other.* 
Pari, Hist,, xx. 326. Horace Wal- 
pole, to his disgrace, * always disliked 
and condemned the repeal of the 

Popish statutes Papists and 

liberty are contradictions.* Letters, 
vii. 378 ; viii. 426. Gibbon wrote on 
June 27 : — * The month of June, 1780, 
will ever be marked by a dark and 
diabolical fanaticism which I had 
supposed to be extinct, but which 
actually subsists in Great Britain, 
perhaps beyond any other country in 
Europe.* Misc. Works, ii. 241. 

' Horace Walpole wrote on June 
7 : — * Yet I assure your Ladyship 
there is no panic. Lady Aylesbury 
has been at the play in the Hay- 
market, and the Duke and my four 
nieces at Ranelagh this evening.' 
Letters, vii. 388. The following 
Monday he wrote : — * Mercy on us ! 
we seem to be plunging into the 
horrors of France, in the reigns of 
Charles VI and VII! — yet, as ex- 
tremes meet, there is at this moment 
amazing insensibility. Within these 
four days I have received five appli- 
cations for tickets to see my house ! ' 
lb, p. 395. Gibbon, who lived in 
Bentinck Street, Manchester Square, 
wrote on June 8 : — * Our part of the 
town is as quiet as a country village.' 
Misc, Works, ii. 240. 

On 



▲etat 70.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



167 



On Friday [June 2] the good Protestants met in St. George*s 
Fields, at the summons of Lord George Gordon, and marching 
to Westminster, insulted the Lords and Commons, who all bore 
it with great tameness '. At night the outrages began by the 
demolition of the mass-house" by Lincoln's Inn. 

An exact journal of a week's defiance of government I cannot 
give you. On Monday, [June 5], Mr. Strahan, who had been 
insulted, spoke to Lord Mansfield, who had I think been in- 
sulted too, of the licentiousness of the populace ; and his Lord- 
ship treated it as a very slight irregularity ^ On Tuesday night 



* Horace Walpole wrote on June 
3 : — * I smile to-day— but I trembled 
last night ; for an hour or more I 
never felt more anxiety. I knew the 
bravest of my friends were barricaded 
into the House of Commons, and 
every avenue to it impossible. . . . 
The Duke of Gloucester had reached 
the House with the utmost difficulty, 
and found it sunk from the temple of 
dignity to an asylum of lamentable 

objects Mr. Conway and Lord 

F. Cavendish told me there was a 
moment when they thought they 
must have opened the doors and 
fought their way out sword in hand. 
Lord North was very firm, and at 
last they got the Guards and cleared 
the pass.' WalpoUs Letters^ vii. 
375-7. The poet Crabbe describes 
how he met *a resolute band of vile- 
looking fellows, ragged, dirty, and in- 
solent, armed with clubs, going to 
join their companions' at West- 
minster. Crabbers Works ^ ed. 1834, 
i. 82. 

' * He means the Sardinian Chapel, 
as it is commonly called. But so 
illiberal was Johnson made by religion 
that he calls here that chapel a Mass- 
house^ by way of contempt, alluding 
to the nsxci^soi bufi'house^chop'house, 
slaughter-house, and other such ; yet 
he hated the Presbyterians.* — Ba- 
RETTi. Johnson used the common 



term — the one used by Horace Wal- 
pole (see last note). In the Gentle^ 
mat^s Magazine for 1767, p. 141, there 
is an account of two * private mass- 
houses* which were entered by the 
peace-officers. The Sardinian Chapel 
was attached to the house of the 
Sardinian Minister in Lincoln's Inn 
Fields. The House and Chapel of 
Count Haslang, in Golden Square, 
were also plundered. *As,' writes 
Horace Walpole, * he is a Prince of 
Smugglers as well as Bavarian 
Minister, great quantities of run tea 
and contraband goods were found in 
his house. This one cannot lament ; 
and still less, as the old wretch has 
for these forty years usurped a hired 
house, and, though the proprietor for 
many years has offered to remit his 
arrears of rent, he will neither quit 
the house nor pay for it.' Letters^ 
vii. 381. It was no doubt by an abuse 
of the protection which he enjoyed 
as a Foreign Minister that he was 
able to swindle his landlord. 

^ Johnson wrote to Bos well : — 
' Mr. Strahan got a garrison into his 
house, and maintained them a fort- 
night; he was so frighted that he 
removed part of his goods.' Li/e^ iii. 
435. Strahan was to have sat this 
week to Sir Joshua Reynolds for his 
portrait; but *the appointments 
between Monday and Thursday have 

they 



1 68 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A.D. 1780. 



they pulled down Fielding's house, and burnt his goods in the 
street \ They had gutted on Monday Sir George Savile's house, 
but the building was saved*. On Tuesday [June 6] evening, 
leaving Fielding's ruins, they went to Newgate to demand their 
companions who had been seized demolishing the chapel. The 
keeper could not release them but by the Mayor's permission, 
which he went to ask ; at his return he found all the prisoners 
released, and Newgate in a blaze ^. They then went to Blooms- 
bury and fastened upon Lord Mansfield's house, which they 
pulled down; and as for his goods, they totally burnt them. 
They have since gone to Cane-wood, but a guard was there 
before them *. They plundered some Papists, I think, and burnt 
a mass-house in Moorfields the same night. 



Ito. 



a pen drawn through them.' Leslie 
and Taylor's Reynolds^ ii. 302. 
Horace Walpole describes how at the 
riot at Westminster on the 2nd, * Lord 
Mansfield, whose [carriage] glasses 
had been broken, quivered on the 
wool-sack like an aspen.' Letters^ 
vii. 376. * He was the Speaker pro- 
tempore in the absence of the Lord 
Chancellor.' ParL Ht5t,y xxi. 665. 
Lord Campbell praises his great 
courage this day. Lives of the Chief 
fusticesj ed. 1849, ii. 521. He 
mentions, however, his 'want of moral 
courage.' lb, p. $76. It seems likely 
that his answer to Strahan was due 
to his timidity. See Letters of Hume 
to Strahan f^. 125. 

' Sir John Fielding, half-brother of 
Henry Fielding, the novelist, was 
blind from birth ; nevertheless he 
had been associated with his brother 
as assisting-magistrate for Middlesex 
and Westminster, and succeeded him 
on his death. His house was in 
Bow Street. He outlived the riot 
only three months, and died on 
September 4 of this year. LH'ct. of 
Nat, Biog,y xviii. 424. 

* Savile had brought into Parlia- 
ment the bill in favour of the Catholics. 



He lived in Leicester Fields. Ann, 
Reg,y 1780, i. 260. *The rails torn 
from his house were the chief weapons 
and instruments of the mob.' Wal- 
pole's Letters i vii. 402. Reynolds, 
who lived in the same Square, most 
likely witnessed the scene of destruc- 
tion. 

' Crabbe, who was present, says : — 
' I saw about twelve women and eight 
men ascend from their confinement 
to the open air, and they were con- 
ducted through the street in their 
chains.' Crabbe's Works , i. 83. 
There were about three hundred 
prisoners in all. Ann. Reg.^ 1780, i. 
260. 

* * Wednesday, five o'clock, June 7. 
George Selwyn came into my chaise 
in a fury, and told me Lord Mans- 
field's house is in ashes, and that 
five thousand men were marched to 
Caen Wood— it is true, and that one 
thousand of the Guards are gone 

after them Caen Wood is 

saved ; a regiment on march met the 

rioters June 9, at night. My 

bosom, I think, does not want 
humanity, yet I cannot feel pity for 
Lord Mansfield. I did feel joy for 
the four convicts who were released 

On 



Aetat. 70.] 



To Mrs, Thrale. 



169 



On Wednesday [June 7] I walked with Dr. Scot * to look at 
Newgate, and found it in ruins, with the fire yet glowing. As I 
went by, the Protestants were plundering the Sessions-house at 
the Old Bailey. There were not, I believe, a hundred ; but they 
did their work at leisure, in full security, without sentinels, with- 
out trepidation, as men lawfully employed, in full day. Such is 
the cowardice of a commercial place". On Wednesday they 



from Newgate within twenty-four 
hours of their execution ; but ought 
not a man to be taught sensibility 
who drove us cross the Rubicon ? I 
would not hurt a hair on his head ; 
but if I sigh for the afflicted innocent, 
can I blend him with them? . . . 
June 10. How poor a sketch I have 
given of what Guicciardini would 
have formed a folio ! yet we would 
forget the wretched wives and 
mothers that will rue that night, and 
expatiate on the precious manuscripts 
burnt in Bloomsbury [in Lord Mans- 
field's house].' Walpole's Letters^ vii. 
385* 6, 392, 7. Jeremy Bentham, 
speaking of an old friend, said : — * I 
remember joining him to deplore the 
loss of Lord Mansfield's manuscripts 
by the mob ; I should now think 
such a loss a gain.' Bentham's 
Works y X. 51. Dr. Warner wrote 
to George Selwyn on June 8 : — 
* Barnard's Inn — what remains of it 
— Thursday morning, $ o'clock. The 
fire they say is stopped, but what a 
rueful scene has it left behind ! Sunt 
lachrymae rerunty indeed : the sen- 
tence that struck me upon picking up 
a page of Lord Mansfield's Virgil yes- 
terday, in Bloomsbury Square. Sortes 
Virgiliana / » * Selwyn and his Con- 
temporarie^y iv. 334. Lord Mansfield, 
with a touch of eloquence which must 
have deeply moved his hearers, when 
giving his opinion in the House of 
Lords on the lawfulness of employing 



soldiers for quelling riots, said : — ' I 
have not consulted books ; — Indeed 
I have no books to consult.' ParL 
Hist.y xxi. 694. Caen Wood is close 
to Hampstead Heath. In the Went- 
worth Papers, p. 298, it is said that 
' it was sold in 17 12 by Lord Berkeley 
of Stratton to Lord Blantire for 
;^4,ooo.' 

* Dr. Scott, afterwards Lord 
Stowell. His younger brother John, 
afterwards Lord Eldon, with the 
other 'youngsters at the Temple 
armed themselves as well as they 
could, and drew up in the court 
ready to follow out a troop of soldiers 
who were there on guard. When 
however they had passed through the 
gate it was,' he continues, ' suddenly 
shut in our faces, and locked ; and 
the officer in command shouted from 
the other side, ''Gentlemen, I am 
much obliged to you for your intended 
assistance ; but I do not choose to 
allow my soldiers to be shot, so 
I have ordered you to be locked 
in."* Twiss's Eldony ed. 1846, i. 

83. 
Johnson's house was only a few 

minutes' walk from Newgate. 

' * Not two in all London could 

resolve of joining to each other in 

their own defence. The English gave 

me a very mean idea of themselves 

upon that occasion.' — Baretti. At 

Bath there was just as much 

cowardice as at London. Miss 



» Sortes Virgiliante is a mode of divination. He who would try it opens Virgil by 
chance, and from the line which first catches his eye divines some future event. 

broke 



170 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A.D. 1780. 



broke open the Fleet, and the King s-bench, and the Marshalsea, 
and Woodstreet-counter, and Clerkenwell Bridewell, and released 
all the prisoners. 

At night they set fire to the Fleet, and to the King's-bench, 
and I know not how many other places ; and one might see the 
glare of conflagration fill the sky from many parts. The sight 
was dreadful ^ Some people were threatened ; Mr. Strahan ad- 
vised me to take care of myself. Such a time of terror you have 
been happy in not seeing. 

The King said in council, that the magistrates had not done 
their duty, but that he would do his own; and a proclama- 
tion was published, directing us to keep our servants within 
doors, as the peace was now to be preserved by force '. The 
soldiers were sent out to different parts, and the town is now 
at quiet. 

What has happened at your house you will know, the harm is 
only a few butts of beer ; and I think you may be sure that the 



Bumey, describing the burning of 
the Roman Catholic Chapel in that 
town, says : — * The rioters do their 
work with great composure, and 
though there are knots of people in 
every comer all execrating the authors 
of such outrages, nobody dares oppose 
them.* Mme. D*Arblay*s Z^ar^, i. 403. 

' 'Wednesday night, past two in 
the morning, June 7. I was at 
Gloucester House between nine and 
ten. The servants announced a great 
fire, we went to the top of the house, 
and beheld not only one but two vast 
fires.* Walpole's Letters^ vii. 386. 
Sir John Macpherson, who was at 
Downing Street this same night, 
says : — * Lord North accompanied 
by us all mounted to the top of the 
house, where we beheld London 
blazing in seven places, and could 
hear the platoons regularly firing 
in various directions.' Wraxall's 
Memoirs^ ed. 1815, i. 336. 

* 'June 5. Have you faith enough 
in me to believe that the sole 



precaution taken was, that the 
Cabinet Council on Thursday em- 
powered the First Lord of the 
Treasury to give proper orders to the 
civil magistrates to keep the peace, — 
and his Lordship forgot it I . . . June 9. 
The Magistrates intimidated by the 
demolition of Fielding's and Justice 
Hyde's houses, did not dare to act. 
A general Council was summoned at 
Buckingham House, at which the 
twelve judges attended. It was 
determined not to shut up the Courts, 
but to order military execution.* 
WalpoIe*s Letters^ vii. 380, 391. For 
the Proclamation see Ann. Reg., 
1780, i. 265. The following General 
Order was issued from the Adjutant- 
GeneraFs Office on June 7 : — * In 
obedience to an order of the King in 
Council the military to act without 
waiting for directions from the civil 
magistrates, and to use force for dis- 
persing the illegal and tumultuous 
assemblies of the people.' Jb. p. 
266. 

danger 



Aetat. 70.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



171 



danger is over. There is a body of soldiers at St. Margaret's 
Hill '. 

Of Mr. Tyson I know nothing, nor can guess to what 
he can allude; but I know that a young fellow of little 
more than seventy, is naturally an unresisted conqueror of 
hearts '. 

Pray tell Mr. Thrale that I live here and have no fruit, 
and if he does not interpose, am not likely to have much ; but 
I think he might as well give me a little, as give all to the 
gardener ^ 

Pray make my compliments to Queeney and Burney. 

I am, &c., 

Sam : Johnson. 



' Johnson wrote to Boswell on 
August 31 :— * In the late disturb- 
ances, Mr. Thrale's house and stock 
were in great danger ; the mob was 
pacified at their first invasion, with 
about fifty pounds in drink and meat ; 
and at their second, were driven away 
by the soldiers.' Ufe^ iii. 435. The 
Brewery was saved by the manage- 
ment of Perkins, the Superintendent* 
'Perkins,* Johnson wrote on June 
15, 'seems to have managed with 
great dexterity.* Posty p. 178. Miss 
Burney, who was at Bath with the 
Thrales, has the following entries in 
her Diary. * Saturday [June 10]. 
Mrs. Thrale had letters from Sir P. 
Clerk and Mr. Perkins to acquaint 
her that her town-house had been 
three times attacked, but was at last 
saved by guards, —her children, plate, 
money and valuables all removed. 
Streatham also threatened, and 
emptied of all its furniture. The 
same morning we saw a Bath and 
Bristol paper in which Mr. Thrale 
was asserted to be a Papist. . . . 
Perhaps he may himself be a marked 
man for the fury of the mob. We 
are going directly from Bath, and 
intend to stop only at villages. All 



the Catholics in the town have 
privately escaped.' Mme. D'Arblay*s 
Diary y i. 399, 403. The Thrales fled 
to Brighton, whence Mrs. Thrale 
went to Streatham. On her return 
she wrote to Miss Burney on June 
29 : — * My master was not displeased 
that I had given Perkins two hundred 
guineas, instead of one — a secret I 
never durst tell before, not even to 
J ohnson, not even to you.' Jb, p. 409. 

St Margaret's Hill is in Southwark. 
At the Court House there, on the six 
days beginning with July 10, many of 
the rioters were tried, and twenty- 
four capitally convicted. Ann, Reg, ^ 
1780, i. 220, 277. Here thirty-four 
years earlier many of the Scotch 
Rebels had been tried, seventeen of 
whom were put to death with torture 
on Kennington Common. Smollett's 
Hist, of England^ iii. 188. 

* Miss Burney describes Mr. Tyson 
as * a very civil Master of the Cere- 
monies.' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary , 
i. 376. Johnson himself was * little 
more than seventy.* 

^ This passage very likely was 
meant to give Mr. Thrale a little 
confidence. 

To 



172 



To Mrs, Thrale. 



[A.D. 1780. 



678. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 

Dear Madam, [Saturday], June 10, 1780. 

You have ere now heard and read enough to convince you, 
that we have had something to suffer, and something to fear, and 
therefore I think it necessary to quiet the solicitude which you 
undoubtedly feel, by telling you that our calamities and terrors 
are now at an end. The soldiers are stationed so as to be every 
where within call * ; there is no longer any body of rioters, and 
the individuals are hunted to their holes, and led to prison ; the 
streets are safe and quiet ; Lord George was last night sent to 
the Tower ^ Mr. John Wilkes * was this day with a party of 
soldiers in my neighbourhood, to seize the publisher of a seditious 
paper. Every body walks, and eats, and sleeps in security^. But 
the history of the last week would fill you with amazement, it is 
without any modern example. 

Several chapels have been destroyed, and several inoffensive 
Papists have been plundered, but the high sport was to bum the 



* Piozzi Letters^ ii. 1 52. 

' * I bless every soldier I see,' 
wrote Dr. Bumey to his daughter; 
* we have no dependence on any 
defence from outrage but the military.' 
Mme. D'Arbla/s Diary ^ i. 407, 
Horace Walpole wrote on the same 
day as Johnson: — 'While in the 
thick of the conflagration I was all 
indignation and a thousand passions. 
Last night, when sitting silently alone, 
horror rose as I cooled ; and grief 
succeeded, and then all kinds of 
gloomy presages. For some time 
people have said, where will all this 
end ? I as often replied, where will 
it begin .^ It is now begun, with a 
dreadful overture, and I tremble to 
think what the chorus may be ! The 
sword reigns at present, and saved 
the capital ! What is to depose the 
sword ? * Letters^ vii. 394. 



' * The tower is much too dignified 
a prison for him— but he had left no 
other.* Jb, vii. 398. *The guards 
that attended him were by far the 
greatest in number ever remembered 
to guard a state prisoner.' Ann, 
Reg.^ 1780^ i. 263. 

* Wilkes had been lately elected 
City Chamberlain, and was no longer 
* a Wilkite.' Life^ iii. 430, n, 4. Ten 
years later he was seen going up to 
vote against Fox at Westminster 
' amidst the hisses and groans of a 
multitude.' Moore's Life of Sheridan^ 
ed. 1826, ii. 120. 

* For security see ante^ ii. 162, 
n, 3. On Thursday in this week — 
two days before the date of Johnson's 
Letter — even though the soldiers 
had poured in fast ' the shops were 
universally shut from Tybum to 
Whitechapel.' ^«/r.^^^., 1780, i. 262. 

jails. 



AeUt. 70.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



^Vo 



jails. This was a good rabble trick. The debtors and the 
criminals were all set at liberty*; but of the criminals, as has 
always happened, many are already retaken, and two pirates 
have surrendered themselves, and it is expected that they will 
be pardoned '. 

Government now acts again with its proper force ; and we are 
all again under the protection of the King and the law. I thought 
that it would be agreeable to you and my master to have my 
testimony to the publick security; and that you would sleep 
more quietly when I told you that you are safe. 

I am, dearest Lady, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

679. 

To Mrs. Thrale ^ 
Dear Madam, London, June 12, 1780. 

All is well, and all is likely to continue well. The streets 



I i 



June 9. We have now super- 
abundantly to fear robbery; 300 
desperate villains were released from 
Newgate. Lady Albemarle was 
robbed at Mrs. KeppePs door in Pall 
Mall at twelve at night. Baron 
D'Aguilar's coach was shot at here 
last night, close to the Crown [at 
Twickenham]. .... June 12. One 
hears of nothing but robberies on the 
highway.' Walpole's Letters, vii. 
392, 9. Miss Bumey's sister wrote 
to her : — * There have been gangs of 
women going about to rob and 
plunder. Miss Kirwans went on 
Friday afternoon to walk in the 
Museum Gardens, and were stopped 
by a set of women, and robbed of 
all the money they had.* Mme. 
D^Arblay's Diary, i. 408. 

' The two pirates had been found 
guilty on March 31 at a Court of 
Admiralty, of causing a revolt in a 
privateer, and sentenced to death. 
They were to have been hanged on 
May 4, but they were respited * in con- 
sequence of notice taken of the case 



in the House of Commons. The 
captain, it seems, had been con- 
cerned in some illicit practices, and 
they had resisted going into port for 
fear of being pressed.' GentlemarCs 
Magazine^ i?^) PP* I99» 248. A 
correspondent states that ' the judge 
omitting to pass sentence of death, 
and only saying they should be 
carried *'to the usual place of exe- 
cution," a doubt arose, and this 
weighed in their favour as much as 
the alleviating circumstances. Dur- 
ing the late riots they are said to 
have surrendered themselves to the 
judge, and offered to defend him 
when he fled from the fiiry of the 
populace.' lb, p. 374. A man 
named Purse, who was under 
sentence of death for rape, and *• sur- 
rendered himself again into the 
custody of Mr. Akerman,' received a 
free pardon on July 15. Ann, Reg,y 
1780, i. 212, 220. For Akerman, 
the Keeper of Newgate, see Lt/ef iii. 

431, 3- 
' Piossi Lettersy ii. 154. 

are 



174 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[AJ). 1780. 



are all quiet, and the houses are all safe '. This is a true answer 
to the first enquiry which obtrudes itself upon your tongue at 
the reception of a letter from London. The publick has escaped 
a very heavy calamity. The rioters attempted the Bank on 
Wednesday night, but in no great number; and like other 
thieves, with no great resolution. Jack Wilkes headed the party 
that drove them away '. It is agreed, that if they had seized the 
Bank on Tuesday, at the height of the panick, when no resistance 
had been prepared, they might have carried irrecoverably away 
whatever they had found. Jack, who was always zealous for 
order and decency, declares, that if he be trusted with power, he 
will not leave a rioter alive ^. There is however now no longer 
any need of heroism or bloodshed ; no blue riband is any longer 
worn*. 

called on Friday at Mrs. Gardiner's ^ to see how she 

escaped or what she suffered ; and told her, that she had herself 
too much affliction within doors, to take much notice of the dis- 
turbances without. 

It was surely very happy that you and Mr. Thrale were away 



' Wraxall records a curious fact 
which he witnessed when the riot 
was at its height. In Holbom, at a 
short distance from the blazing 
premises of a large distillery, *a 
watchman,' he says, *with his 
lanthom in his hand passed us, 
calling the hour, as if in a time of 
profound tranquillity.* WraxalFs 
Memoirs y ed. 1815, i. 329. 

' Crabbe, at eleven o'clock that 
night, met * large bodies of horse and 
foot soldiers coming to guard the 
Bank.' Crabbe's Works X^^* Horace 
Walpole, writing three hours later, 
says :— * Colonel Jennings told me 
there had been an engagement at the 
Royal Exchange to defend the Bank, 
and that the Guards had shot sixty 
of the mob ; I have since heard 
seventy.' Letters^ vii. 387. The 
number is no doubt exaggerated. 
According to the Annual Register^ 



1780, i. 262, 'several feU, and many 
were wounded.* 

^ * Wilkes has very sensibly ridden 
home on Lord George Gordon, and 
distinguished himself by zeal and 
spirit.* Walpole's Letters^ vii. 401. 
See Life^ iii. 'jTy 430, «. 4. 

* The 'Protestants* wore blue 
ribbons in their hats. Horace Wal- 
pole wrote on Wednesday, June 7: — 
' It will probably be a black night ; I 
am decking myself with blue ribbons 
like a May- day garland. Horsemen 
are riding by with muskets.* Letters 
vii. 386. Two days later he wrote 
that * now the soldiers tear away blue 
cockades.* Jb. p. 390. 

* Johnson's friend, the wife of a 
tallow-chandler, on Snow Hill. Life^ 
i. 242. She must have seen Newgate 
blazing hard by on one side, and the 
great distillery on the other. 



in 



Aetat. 70.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



175 



in the tumult; you could have done nothing better than has 
been done, and must have felt much terrour which your absence 
has spared you. 

We have accounts here of great violences committed by the 
Protestants at Bath ; and of the demolition of the masshouse. 
We have seen so much here, that we are very credulous '- 

Pray tell Miss Burney that Mr. Hutton* called on me yesterday, 
and spoke of her with praise ; not profuse, but very sincere, just 
as I do. And tell Queeney, that if she does not write oftener, I 
will try to forget her. There are other pretty girls that perhaps 
I could get, if I were not constant. 

My Lives go on but slowly. I hope to add some to them this 
week. I wish they were well done. 

Thus far I had written when I received your letter of battle 
and conflagration ^. You certainly do right in retiring ; for who 
can guess the caprice of the rabble ? My master and Queeney 
are dear people for not being frighted *. I wrote to you a letter 
of intelligence and consolation ; which, if you staid for it, you 
had on Saturday; and I wrote another on Saturday, which per- 
haps may follow you from Bath, with some atchievement of John 
Wilkes. 



* For the demolition of the mass- 
house see ante, ii. 167, n. 2. Horace 
Walpole wrote on the 12th: — 'Last 
night, at Hampton Court, I heard of 
two Popish chapels demolished at 
Bath, and one at Bristol. My coach- 
man has just been in Twickenham, 
and says half Bath is burnt ; I trust 
this is but the natural progress of lies, 
that increase like a chairman's legs 
by walking.* Letters, vii. 39$. For 
Johnson's general habit of incredulity 
see Life, iii. 229. 

' Hutton the Moravian. See Ufe, 
iv. 410, Letters of Hume to Strahan, 
pp. 364-9, and The Early Diary of 
Fanny Burney, i. 294, where a 
curious account is given of his intro- 
duction to the Burney family. 

^ Mrs. Thrale gives this letter, or 
a substitute, for it. It belongs to those 



* well-written but studied episties ' 
which Boswell evidently did not think 
authentic. Ante, ii. 147, ;r. 4. It 
is not easy to believe that writing as 
she says she was at 3 o'clock in the 
morning, after a night of ' trembling 
agitation,' she quoted Shakespeare, 
and drew a simile from * the iron bed 
of the tyrant Procrastes ' (sic). Part 
of the letter nevertheless may be 
genuine, though we should like to 
know how she got the original. She 
scarcely made a copy of it in her 

* trembling agitation.' 

* * Miss Burney is frighted, but she 
says better times will come. Mr. 
Thrale seems thunderstricken, he 
don't mind anything; and Queeney's 
curiosity is stronger than her fears.' 
Pioszi Letters, ii. 147. 

Do 



176 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A J). 1780. 



Do not be disturbed ; all danger here is apparently over : but 
a little agitation still continues. We frighten one another with 
seventy thousand Scots to come hither with the Dukes of Gordon 
and Argyle, and eat us, and hang us, or drown us ; but we are 
all at quiet ^ 

I am glad, though I hardly know why, that you are gone to 
Brighthelmstone rather than to Bristol. You are somewhat 
nearer home, and I may perhaps come to see you. Brighthelm- 
stone will soon begin to be peopled, and Mr. Thrale loves the 
place; and you will see Mr. Scrase*; and though I am sorry 
that you should be so outrageously unroosted ^, I think that Bath 
has had you long enough. 

Of the commotions at Bath there has been talk here all day. 
An express must have been sent ; for the report arrived many 
hours before the post, at least before the distribution of the letters. 
This report I mentioned in the first part of my letter, while I was 
yet uncertain of the fact. 

When it is known that the rioters are quelled in London, their 

spirit will sink in every other place, and little more mischief will 

be done. 

I am, dear Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

680. 

To Mrs. Thrale*. 
Dear Madam, London, June 14, 1780. 

Every thing here is safe and quiet. This is the first thing 
to be told ; and this I told in my last letter directed to Bright- 
helmstone. There has indeed been an universal panick, from 



' Lord George Gordon was the 
son of the third Duke of Gordon. 
Two days later Horace Walpole, 
after mentioning that Lord George 
Gordon was in the Tower, con- 
tinued : — * What a nation is Scotland ; 
in every reign engendering traitors 
to the State, and false and pernicious 
to the Kings that fevour it the most I 



National prejudices, I know, are very 
vulgar ; but if there are national 
characteristics, can one but dislike 
the soils and climates that concur to 
produce them ?' Letters^ vii. 400. 

' AntCy i. 395. 

^ This word Johnson gets from 
The Winter's Tale^ Act ii. sc. 3. 

* Piozsi Letters y ii. 158. 

which 



AeUt. 70.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



177 



which the King was the first that recovered. Without the con- 
currence of his ministers, or the assistance of the civil magistrate, 
he put the soldiers in motion, and saved the town from calamities, 
such as a rabble's government must naturally produced 

Now you are at ease about the publick, I may tell you that 
I am not well ; I have had a cold and cough some time, but it is 
grown so bad, that yesterday I fasted and was blooded, and to 
day took physick and dined : but neither fasting nor bleeding, 
nor dinner, nor physick, have yet made me well. 

No sooner was the danger over, than the people of the Borough 
found out how foolish it was to be afraid, and formed themselves 
into four bodies for the defence of the place ; through which they 
now march morning and evening in a martial manner*. 

I am glad to find that Mr. Thrale continues to grow better ; if 

he is well, I hope we shall be all well : but I am weary of my 

cough, though I have had much worse. 

I am, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

681. 

To Mrs. Thrale ^ 
Dear Madam, London, June 15, 1780. 

Last night I told you that I was not well ; and though you 
have much else to think on, perhaps you may be willing enough 
to hear, that by the help of an opiate, I think myself better 
to-day. 

Whether I am or am not better, the town is quiet, and every 
body sleeps in quiet, except a few who please themselves with 



' The King, it must be remem- 
bered, was solely answerable for the 
choice of a set of Ministers'of whom 
Johnson said : — * Such a bunch of 
imbecility never disgraced a country.* 
Life, iv. 139. 

* Several inhabitants of the City, 
who had proposed to arm themselves 
for their common preservation, re- 
ceived from the Adjutant-General on 
June 12 the following letter: — *The 
inhabitants of the Borough of South- 

VOL. II. N 



wark . . . have formed themselves 
into very useful, and at the same 
time unexceptionable associations ; 
and if something of the same kind 
was adopted in the City there is no 
doubt but much use and great secu- 
rity would arise therefrom ; but the 
using of fire-arms is improper, un- 
necessary, and cannot be approved.' 
Ann. Reg, 1780, i. 266. 
' Piozzi Letters, ii. 159. 

guarding 



178 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[AJ>. 1780. 



guarding; us now the danger is over. Perkins seems to have 
mnnngcd with great dexterity. Every body, I believe, now sees, 
timi if the tumult had been opposed immediately, it had been 
linmcdiutcly suppressed * ; and we are therefore now better pro- 
vidrd iiKuinst an insurrection, than if none had happened. 

I hope you» and Master, and Queeney,and Bumey, are all welL 
I WMH contented last night to send an excuse to Vesey, and two 
cliiyii tttjo another to Mrs. Homcck • ; you may think I was bad, 
if you thought about it ; and why should you not think about me 
who urn so often thinkii^ about you, and your 2q>purtenances. 
liut thcro is no gratitude in this world. 

Hut I could tdl you, Doris, if I would ; 

Ami since )'ou treat me so, methinks I should. 

So sings the sublime and pathetick Mr. Walsh ^ Well ! and 
I will tcU )^u toa Among the heroes of the Borough, who 
twice ti«d)iy perambulate^ or perequitate^ H^>street and the 
Clink \ rides that renowned and redoubted knight. Sir Richard 
tlothtlm^ There is magnammit>% which d^es cver>' dai^^ 
timt is i^iist. and publick spirit that stands sentinel over property 



* Ui^AC« Walpole wroie on the 
MiUf» drty ^ - * I can gi\-e yoa Hoie 
At i ouiu ivf the CMTiginal of this shock- 
\\\^ AftUir; NcgligeiKe was ccrtamhr 
itn \\\\\%ty And Religion onhr its god- 
luotht^r, , . . . The k^west mxA xaaSL 
vilUnou)! 1^ the people, vmI to no 
Kit»4t AmiHint, were afanost the sowe 
Actor*/ ixftttrsy vii 403. 

"* Antt^ 1, 344. 

^ ' Yet 1 couM tell 3FOQ. fur-one, if 
1 >ik\Hiki, 
And since >'oq treat me thiB» 
methinks I shookL* 

iTtA^w^ il Chahnefs*s Em^Hsk 
/Vv/jt, eit iSiOk \-uL 415. 

1V|K^ introduces Walsh in the/V>- 
kf$!^ /^» t^ SjUirts^ L 135 : — 

^Uut why then piib&sh? Gxanrille 
the polite. 
And knowing Walsh vonki tsSk nx 
1 could 



Jofczfcson ends his hrief Life of him 
by saying : — ' In ail his writii^ 
there are pueaissn^ passages. He has 
however nMxe efe^fance than vigour, 
and sejQoci ri^es higher than to be 
pretry.* HVi*. \-iL 244. 

* Jchnsoc Ov>K DOC lire in his 
tipsUJtU^ {^pclMti^mj or 

B^Kwe^ senen years 
earlier, had wrinesi :— •This day we 
were to be^ oczr trpBt.a:i*m^ as I 
said: for / vnxJd needs make a 
word Ko.* Lift^ v. 151. 

' 'Qiak Saeec bi^ais at Dead- 
man's Place and ex^esxis to St. Mary 
Overy s Dock. Chnk Pnsco in Chnk 
Street bekogs to the LiSernr of the 
Bishop of Winchetsser. caUcd the 
Qxnk Liberty, bu: is £n)e cxd. It 
is a very disinal hole, where cebtois 

oon^aec.' Dodsley s 

a. 147- 

* Amit^VL 154.S.S. 

that 



Aetat. 70.] 



To Miss Reynolds. 



179 



that he does not own. Tell me no more of the self-devoted 
Decii, or of the leap of Curtius. Let fame talk henceforward 
with all her tongues of Hotham the Hatmaker. 

I was last week at Kenny's conversatione ', and Renny got her 
room pretty well filled ; and there were Mrs. Ord, and Mrs. 
Horneck, and Mrs. Bunbury ', and other illustrious names, and 
much would poor Renny have given to have had Mrs. Thrale 
too, and Queeney, and Bumey: but human happiness is never 
perfect ; there is always une vuide affreuse^ as Maintenon com- 
plained ^ there is some craving void left aking in the breast. 
Renny is going to Ramsgate ; and thus the world drops away, 
and I am left in the sultry town, to see the sun in the crab, and 
perhaps in the lion *, while you are paddling with the Nereids. 

I am, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 



682. 

To Miss Reynolds ^ 
Dear Madam, Bolt Court, June 16, 178a 

I answer your letter as soon as I can, for I have just 
received it. I am very willing to wait on you at all times, and 
will sit for the picture, and, if it be necessary, will sit again, for 
whenever I sit I shall be always with you ^ 



' Renny was Miss Reynolds. For 
conversatione see ante^ ii. 105, n, 4. 

' H. W. Bunbury, the caricaturist, 
had married one of Mrs. Homeck's 
daughters. Forster's Goldsmith^ ii. 
283. See ante^ i. 344, n, 2. See Ap- 
pendix A. 

^ Madame de Maintenon wrote to 
Madame de la Maisonfort : — * J'ai 
€%.€ jeune et jolie; j'ai goiit^ des 
plaisirs ; j'ai ^t^ aim^ partout. 
Dans un &ge plus avanc^, j'ai pass^ 
des ann^es dans le commerce de 
Pesprit ; je suis venue k la faveur, et 
je vous proteste, ma ch^re fille, que 
tous les ^tats laissent un vide af!reux.' 
Voltaire, Sihle de Louis XIVy ch. 
27. Baretti, noticing Johnson's error 



in gender says : — ' I have some 
notion that he wrote it right, and 
the ignorant woman made it wrong, 
thinking she was doing right.' 

* The sun enters the Crab on June 
21, and the Lion on July 22 or 23. 

^ First published in Croker's Bos- 
well, page 649. 

* For Johnson's sitting to Miss 
Reynolds for his portrait see post. 
Letter of August 20, 1783. Though 
he often sat to her he once said that 
*he thought portrait -painting an 
improper employment for a woman. 
" Public practice of any art (he ob- 
served) and staring in men's faces is 
very indelicate in a female." ' Life^ 
iL 362. 

N 2 Do 



i8o 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A.D. 1780. 



Do not, my love, burn your papers. I have mended little but 
some bad rhymes '. I thought them very pretty, and was much 
moved in reading them. The red ink is only lake and gum, and 
with a moist sponge will be washed off. 

I have been out of order, but, by bleeding and other means, 

am now better. Let me know on which day I shall come to 

you. 

I am, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

688. 



Sir, 



To John Nichols". 



I have been out of order, but by bleeding and physick think 

I am better, and can go again to work. 

Your note on Broome will do me much good. Can you give 

me a few dates for A. Philips? I wrote to Cambridge about 

them, but have had no answer ^ 

I am, 

Sir, 

Your humble servant, 

June 16, 1780. SaM: JOHNSON. 

To Mr. Nicol. 

684. 

To Mrs. Thrale*. 
Dear Madam, Wednesday, June 21, 1780. 
Now you come to a settled place ^ I have some inclina- 
tion to write to you ; for in writing after you there was no 
pleasure. All is quiet ; and that quietness is now more likely to 
continue than if it had never been disturbed. 's case, if 



' ' Of a poem now before me. 
Johnson read it attentively, and made 
numerous corrections ; but after all 
it is not worth much.' Croker. 

■ First published in the Gentle- 
moffs Magazine for 1785, page 10. 

^ Johnson on May 25 had written 
to Dr. Farmer for ' the dates or other 
informations which Collie or Uni- 



versity registers can supply relating to 
Ambrose Philips, Broome and Gray. 
Ufe, iii. 427. His correspondent's 
neglect to answer is apparent in the 
Lives of these men. The informa- 
tion which was not supplied by him 
was not obtained elsewhere. 

* Piozzi Letters^ ii. 162. 

' Brighton. 

it 



Aetot. 70.] To Mrs. Thrate. 1 8 1 

it be not affected, is ridiculous ; but there is in the world much 
tenderness where there is no misfortune, and much courage where 
there is no danger. 

My cold is grown better, but is not quite well, nor bad enough 
now to be complained of. I wish I had been with you to see the 
Isle of Wight ; but I shall perhaps go some time without you, 
and then we shall be even. 

What you told me of Mr. Middleton frighted me ; but I am 
still of my old opinion, that a semivegetable diet will keep all 
well. I have dined on Monday and to-day only on peas '. 

I suppose the town grows empty, for I have no invitations ; 
and I b^in to wish for something, I hardly know what : but 
I should like to move when every body is moving; and yet 
I purpose to stay till the work is done, which I take little care to 
do. Sic labitur cetas '. 

The world is full of troubles. Mrs. has just been with 

me to get a chirurgeon^ to her daughter; the girl that Mrs. 
Cumins * rejected, who has received a kick from a horse, that has 
broken five fore-teeth on the upper side. The world is likewise 
full of escapes ; had the blow been a little harder it had killed 
her. 

It was a twelvemonth last Sunday since the convulsions in my 
breast left me ^. I hope I was thankful when I recollected it : 
by removing that disorder, a great improvement was made in 
the enjoyment of life. I am now as well as men at my age can 
expect to be, and I yet think I shall be better. 

I have had with me a brother of , a Spanish merchant, 

whom the war has driven from his residence at Valencia ; he is 
gone to see his friends, and will find Scotland but a sorry place 
after twelve years' residence in a happier climate. He is a very 
agreeable man, and speaks no Scotch ^. 

' Posty p. 184, we find the word * In the Letter of October 31, 

spelt pease, in accordance with the 1781, there is mention of Cummins 

rule given in Johnson's Dictionary and of Mrs. Cumyns. Perhaps in 

under Pease, See ante, ii. 143, for these three ways of spelling one 

his alternate diet. name only is included. 

' * Cito pede labitur aetas.' OviD, ' See antey ii. 143, «. 3. 

Ars. Am. iii. 65. * BoswelFs brother David was this 

' Ante, ii. i, n, 4. *very agreeable man.' Boswell quotes 

Keep 



l82 



To Mrs. Tkrale, 



[Aj>. 178a 



Keep Master to his diet, and tril him that his iDwillers' are 
very unwilling to think that he can ever st moie in parliament, 
but by caution and resolution he may sec many parliaments. 
Pay my respects to Quecney and Bumey. Living so apart we 
shall get no credit by our studies ' ; but I h<^>e to see you all again 
some time. Do not let separafioa make us forget one another. 

I am, &&, 

Sam: Johnson. 



To Mssw Thkale^. 

Dear Madam, Londoiu July 4« 178a 

You are too happy for any body but yourself to travel in 
such pretty company, and leave every thii^ safe bdiind you, and 
find every thing well when you arrive ; and yet I question if you 
are quite contented, though even* body envies )rou \ Keep my 
master tight in his geers ^ for if he breaks loose the mischief will 
be very extensive. 

Your account of Mr. S and of Miss O is very mdan- 

choly; I wish them both their proper relief from their several 



this passage and says in a note : — 
' Mrs. Piozzi has omitted the name, 
she best knows why.' Ufiy iii. 434. 
Writing of him to Temple he says : — 
'In Spain he gave up all pluloso- 
phizing, and applied himself to real 
business. He says he found out that 
men who speculate on life, as you and 
I do, are not successful in substantial 
concerns.' Letters of Boswell^ p. 254. 
Johnson had spoken very differently 
of the effect of climate eight years 
earlier, when Boswell talked to him 
about this same brother : — * I men- 
tioned a friend of mine who had re- 
sided long in Spain, and was un- 
willing to return to Britain. JOHN- 
SON. "Sir, he is attached to some 
woman." Boswell. "I rather be- 
lieve, Sir, it is the fine climate which 
keeps him there." Johnson. " Nay, 
Sir, how can yon talk so ? What is 



cUmtate to happiness? Place me in 
the heart of Asia, should I not be 
exiled? What proportion does cli- 
mate bear to the complex system of 
human life ? You may advise me to 
go to live at Bologna to eat sausages. 
The sausages there are the best in 
the world ; they lose much by being 
carried."' Ufe^ iL 195. 

' niwiller is not in Johnson's 
Dictionary, 

* See ante^ ii. 98, for the lessons 
in Latin which he gave to Queeney 
and Miss Bumey. 

' Pioszi Letters J ii. 164. 

^ Mrs. Thrale had been to Streat- 
ham and returned to Brighton. 
Mme. D'Arbla/s Diary ^ i. 409. 

* Gears in Johnson's Dictionary — 
*' the traces by which horses or oxen 
draw.* 

maladies^ 



Aetat. 70.] 



To Mrs, Thrale. 



183 



maladies '. But I am glad that Queeney continues well ; and 
hope she will not be too rigorous with the young ones, but allow 
them to be happy their own way ; for what better way will they 
ever find ' ? 

C'est que Tenfant toujours est homme; 
C'est que rhomme est toujours enfant. 

I have not seen or done much since I had the misfortune of 
seeing you go away. I was one night at Burney's. There were \sic\ 
Pepys, and there were Mrs. Ord, and Paradise, and Hoole, and 
Dr. Dunbar of Aberdeen, and I know not how many more. 
And Pepys and I had all the talk I 

To-day called on me the Dean of Hereford *, who says that the 
barley-harvest is likely to be very abundant There is something 
for our consolation. Don't forget that I am, 

Dear Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 



' Mrs. Thrale wrote to Miss Bur- 
ney on June 29 : — * This morning I 
carried a bunch of grapes to Mr. 
Scrase, who was too ill to swallow 
one, or to see even me. My master 
however is quite in rosy health, and 
jokes Peggy Owen for her want of 
power to flash.* Mme. D'Arblay's 
Diary ^ i. 409. 

■ * Mr. Johnson,' writes Mrs. Piozzi 
(Anecdotes, p. 21), * was exceedingly 
disposed to the general indulgence of 
children, and was even scrupulously 
and ceremoniously attentive not to 
offend them. He had strongly per- 
suaded himself of the difficulty people 
always And to erase early impressions 
either of kindness or resentment.' 
See Lifey iv. 196. This perhaps he 
had got from South, who, addressing 
* the educators of youth,* says : — 
' Let them remember that excellent 
and never to be forgotten advice, 
that boys will be men; and that the 
memory of all base usage will sink 
so deep into, and grow up so in- 



separably with them, that it will not 
be so much as in their own power 
ever to forget it.* South's Sermons^ 
ed. 1823, iii. 398. 

^ Miss Bumey wrote to Mrs. Thrale 
on July 8: — *I have not seen Dr. 
Johnson since the day you left me, 
when he came hither, and met Mrs. 
Ord, Mr. Hoole, Mrs. Reynolds, 
Baretti, the Paradises, Pepys, Casdes, 
Dr. Dunbar and some others ; and 
then he was in high spirits and good 
humour, talked all the talk, affronted 
nobody, and delighted everybody. 
I never saw him more sweet, or 
better attended to by his audience.* 
Mme. D*Arblay*s Diary, i. 412. 
Johnson had met Dr. Dunbar at 
Aberdeen. Life, iii. 436 ; v. 92. He 
was the uncle of Sir James Dunbar 
of Boath, Capt. R.N., whose widow 
died in 1888, aged 93. 

* Dr. Nathan Wetherell, who was 
also Master of University College, 
Oxford. ljtt\€v€s Fast EccL Angl. 

iii. 538. 

To 



184 To Mrs. Tkrale. [A.D.1780. 



686. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 
Dear Madam, London, July 10, 178a 

If Mr. Thralc cats but half his usual quantity, he can hardly 

cat too much. It were better however to have some rule, and 

some security. Last week I saw flesh but twice, and I think fish 

once, the rest was pease. 

You are afraid, you say, lest I extenuate myself too fast, and 
are an enemy to violence : but did you never hear nor read, dear 
Madam, that every man has his genius, and that the great rule 
by which all excellence is attained, and all success procured^ is, 
to follow ^^«iW ; and have you not observed in all our conversa- 
tions that my genius is always in extremes ; that I am very noisy, 
or very silent ; very gloomy, or very merry ; very sour, or very 
kind? And would you have me cross my genius^ when it leads 
me sometimes to voracity and sometimes to abstinence'? You 
know that the oracle said follow your genius. When we get 
together again, (but when alas will that be ?) you can manage me, 
and spare me the solicitude of managing myself. 

Poor Miss O ' called on me on Saturday, with that fond 

and tender application which is natural to misery, when it looks 
to every body for that help which nobody can give. I was 
melted ; and soothed and counselled her as well as I could, and 
am to visit her to-morrow. 

She gave a very honourable account of my dear Queeney ; and 
says of my master, that she thinks his manner and temper more 
altered than his looks, but of this alteration she could give no 
particular account ; and all that she could say ended in this, that 
he is now sleepy in the morning. I do not wonder at the scanti- 
ness of her narration, she is too busy within to turn her eyes 
abroad. 

I am glad that Pepys* is come, but hope that resolute 

' Piozsi Letters, ii. 166. For Johnson's extreme of silence sec 

• 'Johnson, though he could be ib, iii. 307. 
rigidly abstemious, was not a tcm- ' Miss Owen. Mme. D'Arbla/s 

perate man either in eating or drink- Diary, i. 410. 

ing. He could refrain, but he could ^ Sir Lucas Pepys, the physician, 

not use moderately.' Life^ i. 468. Ante, ii. 106, if. 3. 

temperance 



Aetat. 70.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



185 



temperance will make him unnecessary. I doubt he can do no 
good to poor Mr. Scrase. 

I stay at home to work, and yet do not work diligently; nor 
can tell when I shall have done, nor perhaps does any body but 
myself wish me to have done ; for what can they hope I shall do 
better? yet I wish the work was over, and I was at liberty*. 
And what would I do if I was at liberty? Would I go to Mrs. 
Aston and Mrs. Porter, and see the old places, and sigh to find 
that my old friends are gone ? Would I recal plans of life which 
I never brought into practice, and hopes of excellence which 
I once presumed ', and never have attained ? Would I compare 
what I now am with what I once expected to have been ? Is it 
reasonable to wish for suggestions of shame, and opportunities of 
sorrow ? 

If you please, Madam, we will have an end of this, and contrive 
some other wishes. I wish I had you in an evening, and I wish 
I had you in a morning ; and I wish I could have a little talk, 
and see a little frolick. For all this I must stay, but life will 
not stay. 

I will end my letter and go to Blackmore's Life ^, when I have 

told you that 

I am, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

687. 

To Mrs. Thrale*. 

London, July 27, 1780. 

And thus it is. Madam, that you serve me. After having 



' 'This paragraph paints him to 
the very life.' Baretti. 

' Johnson does not give in his 
Dictionary any instance of this con- 
struction. Perhaps however he means 
' which I once presumed to attain.' 

^ Blackmore was one of the four 
poets who, by his recommendation, 
were added to the collection. Watts, 
Pomfret, and Yalden were the others. 
Life^ iii. 370 ; iv. 54. Mrs. Thrale 
wrote to him on May 9 of this year : — 
' Shall we have some chat about the 



Lives now? that of Blackmore will 
be very entertaining I dare say, and 
he will be rescued from the old wits 
who worried him, much to your dis- 
liking : so a little for love of his 
Christianity, a little for love of his 
physick, a little for love of his 
courage — and a little for love of con- 
tradiction, you will save him from 
his malevolent criticks, and perhaps 
do him the honour to devour him 
yourself.* Piozzi Letters^ ii. 122. 
* Piozzi Letters^ ii. 169. 

kept 



1 86 



To Mrs. Tkrale. 



[A.D. 1780. 



kept me a whole week hoping and hoping, and wondering and 
wondering what could have stopped your hand from writing, 
comes a letter to tell me, that I suffer by my own fault. As if 
I might not correspond with my Queeney, and we might not 
tell one another our minds about politicks or morals, or any 
thing else. Queeney and I are both steady, and may be 
trusted ; we are none of the giddy gabblers, we think before we 
speak. 

I am afraid that I shall hardly find my way this summer into 
the country, though the number of my Lives now grows less. 
I will send you two little volumes in a few days'. 

As the workmen are still at Streatham, there is no likelihood 
of seeing you and my master in any short time ; but let my 
master be where he will so he be well. I am not, I believe, any 
fatter than when you saw me, and hope to keep corpulence away; 
for I am so lightsome and so airy, and can so walk, you would 
talk of it if you were to see me. I do not always sleep well ; 
but I have no pain nor sickness in the night. Perhaps I only sleep 
ill because I am too long a-bed '. 

I dined yesterday at Sir Joshua's with Mrs. Cholmondely, and 
she told me, I was the best critick in the world ; and I told her, 
that nobody in the world could judge like her of the merit of 
a critick ^ 

On Sunday I was with Dr. Lawrence and his two sisters-in- 
law, to dine with Mr. G * at Putney. The Doctor cannot 

hear in a coach better than in a room, and it was but a dull 



' Miss Bumey wrote to Mrs. Thrale 
on August 1 6 : — * Dr. Johnson has 
delighted me with another volume of 
his Lives — that which contains Black- 
more, Congreve, &c., which he tells 
me you have had.' Mme. D'Arblay's 
Diary, i. 420. These volumes were 
not yet published. 

' 'That was true enough.* Baretti. 

' Mrs. Cholmondeley was a younger 
sister of Peg Woffington. She mar- 
ried the Hon. Robert Cholmondeley, 
second son of the third Earl of 
Chohnondeley and grandson of Sir 
Robert Walpole. * I have been un- 



fortunate in my own family,' wrote 
Horace Walpole on December 5, 
1746; *my nephew, Captsdn Chol- 
mondeley, has married a player's 
sister.* Letters, ii. 68. The Captain 
afterwards quitted the army and took 
orders. lb, n. 4. Boswell dined with 
her at Sir Joshua Reynolds's, when 
' she was in a high flow of spirits, 
and exhibited some lively sallies of 
hyperbolical compliment to Johnson, 
with whom she had been long ac- 
quainted, and was very easy.* Li/e^ 
iii. 318. 
* * Gawlcr.' Baretti. 

day; 



Aetat. 70.] 



To Lord Westcote. 



187 



day ; only I saw two crownbirds, paltry creatures *, and a red 
curlew. 

Every body is gone out of town, only I am left behind, and 
know not when I shall see either Naiad or Dryad ; however, it is 
as it has commonly been, I have no complaint to make but of 
myself. I have been idle, and of idleness can come no goodness. 

Mrs. Williams was frighted from London as you were frighted 
from Bath. She is come back, as she thinks, better. Mrs. 
Desmoulins has a disorder resembling an asthma ; which I am 
for curing with calomel and jalap, but Mr. Levet treats it with 
antimonial wine. Mr. Levet keeps on his legs stout, and walks, 
I suppose, ten miles a-day '. 

I stick pretty well to diet, and desire my master may be told of 
it ; for no man said oftener than he, that the less we eat the better. 

Poor , after having thrown away Lord 's patronage 

and three hundred a-year, has had another disappointment. He 

procured a recommendation from Lord to the Governor of 

Jamaica ; but to make this useful, something was to be done by 
the Bishop of London, which has been refused. Thus is the 
world filled with hope and fear, and struggle, and disappointment. 

Pray do you never add to the other vexations, any diminution 

of your kindness for. 

Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

688. 

To Lord Westcote ^ 
My Lord, Bolt Court, Fleet Street, July 27, 1780. 

The course of my undertaking will now require a short life 



' *Very rare and singular birds; 
but Johnson cared for little but books, 
and more books.' Baretti. There 
is a print of a crown-bird in the 
Gentleman* s Magazine for 1750, p. 
264, where it is described as * a very 
stately fine fowl, of the bigness of a 
large turkey. Upon the top of its 
head grow certain shafts or stalks, 
bearing little round balls on their 



tops, like those of an Earl's coronet, 
of a yellowish colour.' 
' * His frame was firm, his powers 
were bright. 
Though now his eightieth year 
was nigh.' 

Life, iv. 138. 
' Published in Croker's Boswell, 
page 650. For Lord Westcote, see 
ante, i. 177, n, 4. 

oC 



1 88 



To Lord Westcote. 



[AJ>. 1780. 



of your brother, Lord Lyttelton. My desire is to avoid offence, 
and to be totally out of danger '. I take the liberty of proposing 
to your lordship, that the historical account should be written 
under your direction by any friend you may be willing to employ, 
and I will only take upon myself to examine the poetry. Four 
pages like those of his work', or even half so much, will be 
sufficient. As the press is going on, it will be fit that I should 
know what you shall be pleased to determine. 

I am. 

My Lord, 
Your lordship's most humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 

680. 

To Lord Westcote ^ 

My Lord, Bolt Court, Fleet Street, July 28, 1780. 

I wish it had been convenient to have had that done which 
I proposed. I shall certainly not wantonly nor willingly offend * ; 
but when there are such near relations living, I had rather they 
would please themselves. For the life of Lord Lyttelton I shall 
need no help — it was very public^ and I have no need to be 
minute. But I return your lordship thanks for your readiness to 
help me. I have another life in hand, that of Mr. West^, about 
which I am quite at a loss ; any information respecting him 
would be of great use to. 

My Lord, 
Your lordship's most humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 



' For the offence which he gave, 
sec Life^ iv. 57. 

' By *his work* Johnson means, 
I suppose, his History of Henry //, 
which was published in quarto. 

^ Published in Croker's Boswell, 
page 650. 

* He forgot this promise when in 
the Life he described *poor Lyttel- 
ton with humble gratitude returning 



acknowledgments' to the Critical 
Reviewers. 

* Gilbert West. His mother and 
the mother of Lyttelton and West- 
cote were sisters — daughters of Sir 
Richard Temple of Stowe. Burke's 
Peerage, Johnson, in writing his 
Life, says : — * The intelligence which 
my inquiries have gained is general 
and scanty.' 

To 



Aetat 70.] 



To Mrs. Tkrale. 



189 



600. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 
Madam, London, August I, 1780. 

I had your letter about Mr. S and Miss O ' ; but 

there was nothing to which I had any answer, or to which any 
answer could be made. 

This afternoon Dr. Lawrence drank tea, and, as he always 
does, asked about Mr. Thrale ; I told him how well he was when 
I heard ; and he does not eat too much, said the Doctor ; I said, 
not often ; and the return was, that he who in that case should 
once eat too much, might eat no more. I keep my rule very 
well ^ and, I thinks continue to grow better. 

Tell my pretty dear Queeney, that when we meet again, we 
will have, at least for some time, two lessons in a day. I love 
her, and think on her when I am alone ; hope we shall be very 
happy together, and mind our books. 

Now August and Autumn are begun, and the Virgin takes 
possession of the sky. Will the Virgin do any thing for a man of 
seventy ? I have a great mind to end my work under the Virgin *. 

I have sent two volumes to Mr. Perkins to be sent to you, and 
beg you to send them back as soon as you have all done with 
them. I let the first volume get to the Reynolds's, and could 
never get it again ^. 

I sent to Lord Westcote about his brother's life, but he says he 
knows not whom to employ; and is sure I shall do him no 
injury. There is an ingenious scheme to save a day's work, or 
part of a day, utterly defeated ^ Then what avails it to be wise ? 
The plain and the artful man must both do their own work.^ 
But I think I have got a life of Dr. Young '. 



* Piozsi Letters^ ii. 172. 
'Mr. Scrase and Miss Owen. 
' Ante, ii. 143. 

* The sun enters Virgo on August 23, 
and leaves it on September 22 or 23. 

' Sir Joshua lost one of the epi- 
taphs which Johnson wrote for Gold- 
smith. Ante, i. 407. 

^ 'When Johnson was publishing 



his U/e of Gray,* says Mr. Cole, * I 
gave him several anecdotes, but he 
was very anxious as soon as possible 
to get to the end of his labours.' 
Matthew Arnold's Essays in Criti- 
cism, 2nd series, 1888, p. 71. 

^ From Herbert Croft. It was of 
this Ufe that Burke said :— * No, no, 
it is not a good imitation of Johnson ; 

Susy 



190 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[AJD. 178a 



Susy and Sophy have had a fine Summer ; it is a comfort to 
think that somebody is happy. And they make verses, and act 
plays'. 

Mrs. Montague is, I think, in town, and has sent Mrs. Williams 
her annuity'; but I hear nothing from her, but I may be con- 
tented if I hear from you, for 

I am, &C., 

Sam: Johnson. 

691. 

To Mrs. Thrale ^ 

Dear Madam, August 8, 178a 

What do you scold so for about Granville's life ; do you 
not see that the appendage neither gains nor saves any thing to 
me ? * I shall have Young's life given me, to spite you. 

Methinks it was pity to send the girls to school ; they have 
indeed had a fine vacation, dear loves, but if it had been longer 
it had been still finer. 

Did Master read my books ? You say nothing of him in 
this letter ; but I hope he is well, and growing every day nearer 
to perfect health. When do you think of coming home ? 

I have not yet persuaded myself to work, and therefore know 
not when my work will be done. Yet I have a mind to 
see Lichfield. Dr. Taylor seems to be well. He has written to 
me without a syllable of his lawsuit ^ 

You have heard in the papers how • • • is come to age ; I 
have enclosed a short song of congratulation, which you must 



it has all his pomp without his force ; 
it has all the nodosities of the oak 
without its strength; it has all the 
contortions of the Sybil without the 
inspiration.' Life,, iv. 59. 

' Mrs. Thrale wrote to Miss Bin:- 
ney on June 29 : — ' Susan and Sophy 
have t^en to writing verses — 'tis the 
£Eishion of the school they say, and 
Sophy's are the best performances 
of all the misses, except one monkey 
of eighteen years old.' Mme. D'Ar- 
bla/s Diary ^ i. 409. 



' Ante^ i. 371, n. i. 

^ Piozzi Letters^ ii. 174. 

* 'Somebody offered to write an 
appendage to the Life of Granville 
after his doing it ; but that did not 
square with his idleness, as he wished 
to save himself the trouble of writing 
that hfe.' Baretti. This explana- 
tion seems improbable. Mrs. Thrale 
must, I think, have seen the Life 
before the additions mentioned ante^ 

ii. 131. 

* Ante^ ii. 158. 

not 



Aetot. 70.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



191 



not show to anybody '. It is odd that it should come into any 
body's head. I hope you will read it with candour; it is, 
I believe, one of the author's first essays in that way of writing, 
and a beginner is always to be treated with tenderness. 

My two gentlewomen are both complaining. Mrs. Desmoulins 
had a mind of Dr. Turton ' ; I sent for him, and he has 
prescribed for Mrs. Williams, but I do not find that he promises 
himself much credit from either of them. 

I hope it will not be long before I shall have another little 
volume for you, and still there will be work undone. If it were 
not for these Lives, I think I could not forbear coming to look 
at you, now you have room for me. But I still think to stay 
till I have cleared my hands. 

Queeney is not good. She seldom writes to me, and yet 

I love her, and I love you all, for 

I am, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 



602. 

To Mrs. Thrale ^ 

Dear Madam, August 14, 1780. 

I hope my dear Queeney's suspicions are groundless. 
Whenever any alteration of manner happens, I believe a small 
cathartick will set all right ^ 
I hope you have no design of stealing away to Italy before 



' The song was on Sir John Lade, 
Mr. Thrale's nephew. In the Gentle- 
matCs Magazine for 1759, p. 392, 
among the Births is recorded on 
August I :— * Relict of Sir John Lade, 
Bt, of a son and heir, who is im- 
mediately entitled to a very large 
estate.' Johnson, a fortnight before 
he died, repeated the song 'with 
great spirit, saying he had never 
repeated it but once since he com- 
posed it, and had given but one copy 
of it.' It is printed in the Life^ iv. 

413- 



' For the phrase ' to have a mind 
ofz, person or thing,' see antey i. 314, 
343. Turton attended Goldsmith on 
his death-bed. 'When Goldsmith 
was dying. Dr. Turton said to him, 
"Your pulse is in greater disorder 
than it should be, from the degree of 
fever which you have : is your mind 
at ease?" Goldsmith answered it 
was not.' Life^ iii. 164. 

^ PiozMt Letters i ii. 176. 

* The suspicions, no doubt, were 
about a change for the worse in Mr. 
Thrale's health. 

the 



192 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[AJD. 1780. 



the election, nor of leaving me behind you ' ; though I am not 
only Seventy, but Seventy-one*. Could not you let me lose a 
year in round numbers ? Sweetly, sweetly, sings Dr. Swift, 

Some dire misfortune to portend, 
No enemy can match a friend ^ 

But what if I am Seventy-two ; I remember Sulpitius says of 
Saint Martin (now that's above your reading), Est animus victor 
annorum^ et senectuti cedere nescius^. Match me that among 
your young folks. If you try to plague me, I shall tell you that, 
according to Galen, life begins to decline from Thirty-five ^ 



' 'A man who has not been in 
Italy,' said Johnson, ' is always con- 
scious of an inferiority, from his not 
having seen what it is expected a 
man should see.' Ufe^ iii. 36. They 
had been on the point of going there 
in 1776, but had abandoned their 
intention on the sudden death of 
Mr. Thrale's son. Ante^ i. 389. Miss 
Bumey records on March 23, 1781, 
that ' Mr. Thrale had resolved upon 
going abroad ; first to Spa, next to 
Italy, and then whither his fancy led 
him ! that Dr. Johnson was to ac- 
company them.* Mme. D'Arblay's 
Diary y \\, 11. Thrale*s death, which 
followed within a fortnight, for a 
second time barred Johnson's hopes 
of seeing Italy. In the last year of 
his life, for the third time, a prospect 
opened before him of visiting that 
country, but it came to nothing. 
Ufe^ iv. 336. 

' He was not yet seventy-one. 

' 'Some great misfortune to por- 
tend. 
No enemy can match a friend.* 

Swift's Works^ ed. 1803, xi. 243. 

^ Saint Martin was Bishop of 
Tours in the fourth century. *The 
saint,* writes Gibbon, ' once mistook 
(as Don Quixote might have done) 
an harmless funeral for an idola- 
trous procession, and imprudently 



committed a miracle.' Decline and 
Fall, ed. 1807, v. 88. Johnson's quo- 
tation is from the Third Epistle of 
Sulpicius Severus. The dying Saint 
is represented as saying : — ' Sub 
signis tuis, quoadusque ipse jusseris, 
militabo ; et quamvis optata sit seni 
missio post laborem, est tamen ani- 
mus victor annorum,et cedere nescius 
senectuti.' Bibliotheca Patrum La- 
tina Patrologia^ xx. 182. 

* *As I went into his room the 
morning of my birthday once, and 
said to him, '' Nobody sends me 
any verses now because I am thirty- 
five years old ; and Stella was fed 
with them till forty-six," he burst out 
suddenly : — 

" Oft in danger, yet alive, 
We are come to thirty-five ; 
Long may better years arrive. 
Better years than thirty-five. 
Could philosophers contrive 
Life to stop at thirty-five. 
Time his hours should never drive 
O'er the bounds of thirty-five. 
High to soar and deep to dive, 
Nature gives at thirty-five. 
Ladies, stock and tend your hive. 
Trifle not at thirty-five. 
For howe'er we boast and strive 
Life declines from thirty-five. 
He that ever hopes to thrive 
Must begin by thirty-five ; 

But 



Aetat. 70.] To Mrs, [Miss] Prowse. 193 

But as we go off, others come on : Queeney's last letter was 
very pretty. What a hussey she is to write so seldom. She 
has no events, then let her write sentiment as you and I do ; 
and sentiment you know is inexhaustible. 

If you want events, here is Mr. Levet just come in at four- 
score from a walk to Hampstead, eight miles, in August. This, 
however, is all that I have to tell you, except that I have three 
bunches of grapes on a vine in my garden * ; at least, this is all 
that I will now tell of my garden. 

Both my females are ill, both very ill; Mrs. Desmoulins 
thought that she wished for Dr. Turton ' ; and I sent for him, 
and then took him to Mrs. Williams, and he prescribes for both, 
though without much hope of benefiting either. Yet physick has 
its powers : you see that I am better ; and Mr. Shaw ^ will 
maintain, that he and I saved my master. But if he is to live 
always away from us, what did we get by saving him ? If we 
cannot live together, let us hear ; when I have no letter from 
Brighthelmston, think how I fret, and write oftener ; you write 
to this body and to that, and nobody loves you like 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

608. 

Madam, '^^ ^^^' \}^^^^'\ PRowsE^ 

For the loss which you have suffered I will not recall your 
grief by the formality of condolence. I believe all to whom 

And all who wisely wish to wive Court was a garden which he took 

Must look on Thrale at thirty- delight in watering.' Hawkins's 

five. Johnson, p. 531. *He sometimes 

And now,'' said he, ''as I was employed himself in watering and 

writing them down, you may see pruning a vine.' Life, iii. 398. * Lord 

what it is to come for poetry to a Eldon often speaks of the fine fruit 

Dictionary-maker ; you may observe of Gower Street, when he lived in 

that the rhymes run in alphabetical the house now No. 42.' Nollekens 

order exactly." ' Piozzi's Anecdotes, and his Times, i. 33. 

p. 164. Stella was not quite forty- * Ante, ii. 191, n, 2. 

six when she died. Swift wrote verses ^ A Mr. Shaw is mentioned ante, 

on her last birthday, March 13, 1726-7. i. 397. 

Swift's Works, ed. 1803, xi. 21. * First published in Notes and 

' ' Behind Johnson's house in Bolt Queries, 4th S. v. 441. Copied by 

VOL. II. O Mrs. 



194 



To Mrs, \Miss\ Prowse. 



[A.D. 178a 



Mrs. Prowse was known, consider the world as deprived by her 
departure of a very bright and eminent example. 

The allowance which she was pleased to make towards the 
maintenance of the unhappy girl, has been long discontinued, 
how long, I really do not know, and am afraid of favouring my- 
self by a conjectural account. 

Not knowing whether the payment was withheld by negligence 
or intention, I sometimes purposed to have written to the 
Lady, but never did it. Perhaps your accounts can set you 
* right. 

It may be, Madam, in your power, to gratify my curiosity. 
Your servants, I suppose, go frequently to Froome *, and it will 
be thought by me a favour if you will be pleased to bid them 
collect any little tradition that may yet remain, of one Johnson, 
who more than forty years ago was for a short time a Book- 
binder or Stationer in that town '. Such intelligence must be 
gotten by accident, and therefore cannot be immediately 
expected, but perhaps in time somebody may be found that 
knew him. 



me from the original in the posses- 
sion of the Rev. Edward B. Edgell 
of Bromham Rectory, Chippenham. 
Miss Prowse, Johnson's correspond- 
ent, married the Rev. J. M. Rogers, 
Mr. Edgeirs great-uncle. 

The * unhappy girl* about whom 
Johnson writes was a lunatic— his 
first cousin according to Hawkins 
(Hawkinses Johnson^ p. 603) ; who 
adds that 'upon her discharge from 
Bethlem Hospital as incurable, he 
had placed her in a mad-house at 
Bethnal Green.' Johnson in his letter 
of Kcbruar>* 17, 1784, calls her 
Phoebe Heme, and in his ^ill, 
Elisabeth Heme. Lift^ iv. 403. He 
does not mention any relationship. 
The bills fs>x her keeping, sa>*s Haw- 
kins, amounted! to ^25 a >Tar, to- 
wards which * Mrs, Prowse had be- 
queathed her an annuity of /la* It 
is dear from the abo\^ letter that 



during her life-time Mrs. Prowse had 
made her an allowance, though she 
had discontinued it for some years. 
On the third sheet, which is blank, 
is written : — * Not finding in my 
Mother's Books any acct. of the 
money having been paid for six 
years I sent him the whole.' See 
also/^yj/, Letters of May 7, 1781, and 
June 4, 1782. 

' Johnson*s frequent indifference 
to the spelling of proper names is 
shown in this letter, for, while here 
he writes Froome^ in the direction he 
spells it Frome, 

■ Set^s/, Letter of December 9, 
1780, for a further account of this 
man, and Letter of No\*ember 29^ 
1784. for Johnson's inquiries after his 
relations. See also his will for his 
legacies to such as he could discover. 
Z^>, iv. 403. 

The 



▲etal 70.] 



To John Nichols. 



195 



The great civility of your letter has encouraged me to this 
request. 

The money * which your excellent Mother's liberality makes 

payable to me may be remitted by a note on a Banker, or on 

the Bank to, 

Madam, 

Your most humble Servant, 

Bolt Court, Fleet Street, London. SaM : JOHNSON. 

August 14, 1780. 

604. 

To John Nichols*. 

There is a copy of verses by Fenton on the first fit of thegout^ 
in Pope's miscellanies, and I think, in the last volumes of 
Dryden. In Pope's I am sure. 

To Mr. Nicol. 

606. 

To John Nichols. 

I should have given Fenton's birth to Shelton in Staffordshire, 
but that I am afraid there is no such place ^ The rest I have, 



' The annuity for the mad girl. 

' This and the next four Letters 
were first published in the Gentle- 
man^ 5 Magazine for 1785, ps^e 10, 
where Nichols says in a note that 
* The verses On the Gout are printed 
from Fenton's Collection in the Select 
Collection^ 1780, vol. iii. p. 177.' 
By 'Dryden' Johnson no doubt 
means Miscellany Poemsy By the 
most eminent Hands, Published by 
Mr. Dryden. The first edition was 
brought out when Fenton was an 
infant, but after Dryden's death 
many pieces were added and several 
omitted. Lowndes's BibL Man., p. 
678. Fenton's verses fire inserted in 
the English Poets, ed. 1790, xxxv. 
378, with the following note : — * The 
compilers having omitted some pretty 
verses I have put them in here. Dr. 



Johnson.' The most humorous 
couplet is the following : — 
' Thou that dost oft from pampered 
prelate's toe 

Emphatically urge the pains below.' 
Fenton died of the gout — *of in- 
dolence and inactivity,' as Pope 
wrote to Gay. (Elwin and Court- 
hope's Pope, vii. 436.) *A woman 
that once waited on him in a lodging 
told him, as she said, that he would 
" lie a-bed, and be fed with a spoon."' 
Johnson's Works, viii. 58. Never- 
theless Pope in his Epitaph on him 
says, he 

* From Nature's temp'rate feast rose 
satisfy'd.' lb, p. 358 

^ ' Shelton, a township and chap- 
elry in the parish and newly-erected 
borough of Stoke-upon-Trent, County 
of Stafford, two miles E. N.E. from 



O % 



except 



196 



To John Nichols, 



\MkJD. 1780. 



except his Secretaryship, of which I know not what to make. 
When Lord Orrery was in office, Lewis was his Secretary. 
Lewis lived in my time ; I knew him '. The Gout verses were 
always given to Fentcm, when I was >x>ung, and he was living. 
Lord Orrery told me that Fenton was his tutor ; but never 
thought he was his Father's Secretary*. Pray let me see 
the Oxford and Cambridge [Verses] &c. [1707]- If yo" 
are sure it was published by Fenton I should take notice 



ofit^ 



69a 



To John Nichols. 

[FSmnmerof 178a] 

Mr. Johnson desires Mr. Nicols to send him 

Rufihead's hTe of Pope *. 
Pope's Works. 

Swift's Works with Dr. Hawkesworth's life ^ 
Lyttelton's Works, 
and with these he hopes to have done. 
The first to be got is Lyttelton. 



Newcastle- under- Lyme, containing 
with the hamlet of Etruria and part 
of Cobridge, 9267 inhabitants.' 
Lewis's Top, Diet, of England^ ed. 
1835. Fenton, in his Latin epitaph 
on his DEOher, describes him as 
' Johannes Fenton de Shelton.' John- 
son's JVorks, viii. 54. 

' Perhaps he was * Mr. F. Lewis * 
who translated some of the mottoes 
to the Rambler^ * whom Johnson thus 
described to Mr. Malone :— " Sir, he 
lived in London, and hung loose 
upon society." ' /i/2r, i. 226. 

* * Fenton was awhile secretary to 
Charles, Earl of Orrery, in Flanders, 
and tutor to his young son, who 
afterwards mentioned him with great 
esteem and tenderness.' Johnson's 
Works, viii. 55. 



' 'He published in 1707 a col- 
lection of poems.' lb, p. 56. It was 
in 171 7 that this collection was pub- 
Ibhed under the title of Poems on 
Several Occasions. 

* 'Dr. Johnson censured Ruff- 
head's JU/e of Pope, and said, " he 
knew nothing of Pope, and nothing 
of poetry."' Ufe, ii. 166. 

' Johnson begins his Life of Swift 
by saying: — *An account of Dr. 
Swift has been already collected with 
great diligence and acuteness by Dr. 
Hawkesworth, according to a scheme 
which I laid before him in the in- 
timacy of our friendship.' On Sep- 
tember 18 of this year Johnson re- 
corded in his Diary : — * I have Swift 
and Pope yet to write; Swift is 
just b^;un.' Pr, and Med,^ p. 185. 

To 



Aetat. 70.] 



To Mrs. Tkrale. 



197 



607. 

To John Nichols. ^summer of 1780.] 

Mr. Johnson being now at home desires the last leaves of the 

Criticism on Pope's Epitaphs, and he will correct them '. 

Mr. Nichol is entreated to save the proof Sheets of Pope 

because they are promised to a Lady who desires to have 

them'. 



608. 

To John Nichols. 
Sir, [August 16, 1780'.] 

I expected to have found a life of Lord Lyttelton prefixed 
to his Works. Is there not one before the quarto Edition? 
I think there is — if not, I am with respect to him, quite 
aground. 

Wednesday. 

600. 

To Mrs, Thrale*. 

Dear Madam, August 18, 1780. 

I lost no time, and have enclosed our conversation. You 
write of late very seldom. I wish you would write upon 
subjects^ \ any thing to keep alive. You have your beaux. 



' This criticism Johnson had first 
published in 1756 in The Universal 
Visitor, Life, i. 306. He added it 
to his Life of Pope, 

' It was to Miss Bumey that he 
gave them. In her Memoirs of Dr, 
Bumey ^ \\, 178, she says that Dr. 
Bumey wished to have a proof sheet, 
* but left to his daughter the risk of 
the petition. A hint however proved 
sufficient. He offered an entire Life, 
adding with a benignant smile, 
" Choose your poet." Without hesi- 
tation the choice was Pope. He 
composed with so ready an accuracy 
that he sent his copy to the press 
unread, reserving all his corrections 
for the proof sheets; and conse- 



quently they were at times liberally 
marked with changes.' Boswell had 
been promised the proof sheets. Life^ 
iii. 371. He was presented with the 
greatest part of the manuscript. lb, 
iv. 36. 

^ The date is in Nichols's hand- 
writing. 

There is no Life prefixed to the 
quarto edition of Lyttelton's Works. 

* Piozzi Letters y ii. 179. 

^ In his last letter to her he had 
said : — * Queeney has no events, then 
let her write sentiment as you and I 
do; and sentiment, you know, is 
inexhaustible.' Apparently it had 
proved exhaustible on her side. 

and 



1 98 



To Mrs. Tkrale. 



[A.D. 1780. 



and your flatterers, and here am poor I forced to flatter myself ; 

and any good of myself I am not very easy to believe, so that I 

really live but a sorry life. What shall I do with Lyttelton's 

life ? I can make a short life, and a short criticism, and conclude. 

Why did not you like Collins, and Gay, and Blackmore ', as well 

asAkenside? _ ., , 

I am, Madam, 

Your, &c, 

Sam: Johnson. 

700. 

To THE Reverend Dr. Beattie. 
Bolt Court, August 21, 1780. Published in the Life, iii. 434. 

701. 
To James Boswell. 
London, August 21^ 1780. Published in the JJfe^ iii. 435. 

702. 

To Mrs. Thrale*. 
Dear Madam, London,August24, 1780. 

I do not wonder that you can think and write but of 
one thing. Yet concerning that thing you may be less uneasy, 
as you are now in the right way. You are at least doing, what 
I was always desirous to have you do, and which, when despair 
put an end to the caution of men going in the dark, produced 
at last all the good that has been obtained. Gentle purges, and 
slight phlebotomies, are not my favourites ; they are pop-gun 
batteries ^, which lose time and effect nothing. It was by bleed- 
ing till he fainted, that his life was saved *. I would, however. 



' She replied : — ^Blackmore* s Life 
is admirable ; who says I don't like 
it ? I like all the Whig Lives pro- 
digiously.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 182. 

■ Piozzi Letters, ii. 185. 

^ ' Life is not weak enough to be 
destroyed by this popgun artillery of 
tea and coffee.*— Che yne. Quoted 
in Johnson's Dictionary under Pop- 
gun. 



* Mrs. Piozzi has the following note 
on this :— * Here is another allusion 
to that famous bleeding which 
certainly in Southwark did save the 
life of Mr. Thrale, and by its im- 
mediate effects ruined my nerves for 
ever.' Hay ward's Piozzi, i. 302. In 
spite of her ruined nerves she married 
a second time and lived till she was 
eighty. * Twenty years passed in 

now 



Aetat. 70.] 



To Mrs. Tkrale. 



199 



now have him trust chiefly to vigorous and stimulating cathartics. 
To bleed, is only proper when there is no time for slower 
remedies. 

Does he sleep in the night ? if he sleeps, there is not much 
danger ; any thing like wakefulness in a man either by nature or 
habit so uncommonly sleepy, would put me in great fear. Do 
not now hinder him from sleeping whenever heaviness comes 
upon him. Quiet rest, light food, and strong purges, will, 
I think, set all right. Be you vigilant, but be not frighted. 

Of Mr. R * I very well remember all but the name. 

* He had a nice discernment of loss and gain.' This I thought 
a power not hard to be attained. What kept him out then 
must keep him out now; the want of a place for him. Mr. 

P ' then observed, that there was nothing upon which he 

could be employed. Matters will never be carried to extremities. 

Mr. P cannot be discharged, and he will never suffer a 

superiour. That voluntary submission to a new mind is not a 
heroick quality ; but it has always been among us, and therefore 
I mind it less ^. 

The expedition to foreign parts you will not much encourage, 
and you need not, I think, make any great effort to oppose it ; 
for it is as likely to put us out of the way to mischief, as 
to bring us into it. We can have no projects in Italy. Exercise 
may relieve the body, and variety will amuse the mind. The 
expence will not be greater than at home in the regular course 

of life. And we shall be safe from B and G , and all 

instigators to schemes of waste. Si te fata fer ant, fer fata. 



Piozzi's enchanting society seemed,' 
she said, Mike a happy dream of 
twenty hours.' lb, p. 305. 

' Mrs. Thrale had written to 
Johnson on the 20th : — * We had a 

visit yesterday from Mr. R ; 

whom perhaps you remember, 
perhaps not : but our morning con- 
versation with him will not be easily 
forgotten by me, I thought it would 
drive me wild upon the spot.' Piozzi 
Letters y ii. 180. He was probably 
some schemer or projector who had 



designs on Mr. Thrale's purse. 

' Perkins, no doubt. 

^ See ante, i. 192, n, 3, for the 
way in which Mr. Thrale had been 
duped. *Some fellow,* writes Mrs. 
Piozzi, *had incited our master to 
begin a new and expensive building 
to the amount of ^20,000, after the 
progress of which he was ever in- 
quisitive, and kept the plan of it in 
his bedchamber.* Hayward's Piozzi, 
i. 303. 

The 



2CX> To Mrs. Thrale. [a.d.i78o. 

The chief wish that I form is, that Mr. Thrale could be made 
to understand his true state ; to know that he is tottering upon 
a point ; to consider every change of his mental character as the 
symptom of a disease ; to distrust any opinions or purposes that 
shoot up in his thoughts ; to think that violent mirth is the 
foam, and deep sadness the subsidence of a morbid fermentation ; 
to watch himself, and counteract by experienced remedies every 
new tendency, or uncommon sensation. This is a new and 
an ungrateful employment ; but without this self-examinatio^i 
he never can be safe. You must try to teach it, and he to learn 
it gradually, and in this my sweet Queeney must help you ; I am 
glad to hear of her vigilance and observation. She is my pupil. 

I suppose the S scheme is now past; I saw no great 

harm in it, though perhaps no good. Do not suffer little things 
to embarrass you. Our great work is constant temperance, 
and frequent, very frequent evacuation ; and that they may not 
be interrupted, conviction of their necessity is to be prudently 
inculcated \ 

I am not at present so much distressed as you, because 
I think your present method likely to be efficacious. Dejection 
may indeed follow, and I should dread it from too copious 
bleeding ; for as put^es are more under command, and more 
concurrent with the agency of nature, they seldom effect 
any irremediable change. However, we must expect after such a 
disease, that the mind will fluctuate long before it finds its center. 

I will not tell you, nor Master, nor Queeney, how I long to be 
among you ; but I would be glad to know when we are to 
meet, and hope our meeting will be cheerful. 

I am, dearest Lady, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

703. 

To Mrs. Thrale^. 
Dear Madam, London, August 25, 1780. 

Yesterday I could write but about one thing. I am sorry 

* What taste in a woman to publish treatment proper for her husband ! 
these and such like passages about the ' Pioszi Letters^ ii. 1 89. 

to 



Aotat. 70.] To Mrs. Thrale. 201 

to find from my dear Queeney's letter to-day, that Mr. Thrale's 
sleep was too much shortened. He begins however now, she 
says, to recover it. Sound sleep will be the surest token of 
returning health. The swelling of his legs has nothing in 
it dangerous ; it is the natural consequence of lax muscles, and 
when the laxity is known to be artificial, need not give any 
uneasiness. I told you so formerly. Every thing that I have 
told you about my dear master has been true. Let him take 
purgatives, and let him sleep. Bleeding seems to have been 
necessary now ; but it was become necessary only by the 
omission of purges. Bleeding is only for exigences. 

I wish you or Queeney would write to me every post while 
the danger lasts. I will come if I can do any good, or prevent 
any evil. 

For any other purpose, I suppose, now poor Sam : may be 
spared ; you are regaled with Greek and Latin, and you are 
Tkralia Castalio semper amata choro ; and you have a daughter 
equal to yourself. I shall have enough to do with one and the 
other. Your admirer has more Greek than poetry; he was 
however worth the conquest, though you had conquered 
me. Whether you can hold him as fast, there may h^some 
dram of a scruple ^^ for he thinks you have full tongue enough, 
as appears by some of his verses ; he will leave you for some- 
body that will let him take his turn, and then I may come 
in again : for, I tell you, nobody loves you so well, and therefore 
never think of changing like the moon, and being constant only 
in your inconstancy '. 

I have not dined out for some time but with Renny or 
Sir Joshua ; and next week Sir Joshua goes to Devonshire ^, and 
Renny to Richmond, and I am left by myself. I wish I could 
say nunquam minusy b*c, *, but I am not diligent. 

' * No dram of a scruple.* Twelfth ^ See Leslie and Taylor's Life of 

Night, Act iii. sc. 4. Reynolds^ ii. 305. In her brother's 

' ' The world's a scene of changes ; absence Miss Reynolds very likely 

and to be stayed at his house at Richmond. 

Constant in Nature were incon- * * P. Scipionem, Marce fili, euro 

stancy.' qui primus Africanus appellatus est, 

Cowley. Inconstancy : Johnson*s dicere solitum scripsit Cato, qui fuit 

English Poets ^ ed. 1790, viii. 13. ejus fere aequalis, numquam se minus 

I am 



202 



To Viscountess Southwell. 



[A. D. 1780. 



I am afraid that I shall not see Lichfield this year, yet 
it would please me to shew my friends how much better I am 
grown : but I am not grown, I am afraid, less idle ; and 
of idleness I am now paying the fine by having no leisure. 

Does the expedition to Sir John Shelly 's 'go on ? The first 

week of September is now at no great distance ; nor the 

eighteenth day, which concludes another of my wretched years '. 

It is time to have done. . <» 

I am, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

704. 

To A Young Clergyman. 
Bolt Court, August 30, 1780. Published in the Life^ iii. 436. 



706. 

To Viscountess Southwell^. 

Madam, Bolt Court, Fleet Street, Sept. 9, 1780. 

Among the numerous addresses of condolence which your 
g^eat loss must have occasioned, be pleased to receive this from 
one whose name perhaps you have never heard, and to whom 
your ladyship is kflown only by the reputation of your virtue, 
and to whom your lord was known only by his kindness and 
beneficence. 

Your ladyship is now again summoned to exert that piety of 
which you once gave, in a state of pain and danger, so illustrious 
an example*; and your lord's beneficence may be still con- 
tinued by those who with his fortune inherit his virtues. 



otiosum esse quam quum otiosus, 
nee minus solum quam quum solus 
esset.* — Cicero. De Officiisy iii. i. 
Burton, introducing the quotation in 
the Anatomy of Melancholy ^ ed. 
1660, p. 89, translates it : — * Never 
less solitary than when he was alone, 
never more busy than when he seemed 
to be most idle.' 

' Ante, ii. 44, 73. 

■ On his birth-day he recorded : — 
' I am now beginning the seventy- 
second year of my life with more 



strength of body and greater vigour 
of mind than I think is common at 
that age.' Pr, and Med,^ p. 185. 

^ First published in Malone*s Bos^ 
well. Viscountess Southwell was 
the wife of Thomas George, third 
Baron and first Viscount Southwell, 
who died on August 29 of this year. 
Debrett's Peerage, ed. 1820, ii. 1135. 

* *The "illustrious example of 
piety and fortitude" to which Dr. 
Johnson alludes, was the submitting, 
when past her fiftieth year, to an 

I hope 



Aetiit. 70.] 



To William Strahan. 



203 



I hope to be forgiven the liberty which I shall take of inform- 
ing your ladyship, that Mr. Mauritius Lowe, a son of your late 
lord's father ^ had, by my recommendation to your lord, a quar- 
terly allowance of ten pounds, the last of which, due July a6, he 
has not received : he was in hourly hope of his remittance, and 
flattered himself that on October 26, he should have received 
the whole half-year's bounty, when he was struck with the 
dreadful news of his benefactor's death. 

May I presume to hope, that his want, his relation, and his 
merit, which excited his lordship's charity, will continue to have 
the same effect upon those whom he has left behind ; and that, 
though he has lost one friend, he may not yet be destitute. 
Your ladyship's charity cannot easily be exerted where it is 
wanted more ; and to a mind like yours, distress is a sufficient 
recommendation. 

I hope to be allowed the honour of being, 

Madam, &c., 
To Viscountess Southwell, Dublin. SaM : JOHNSON. 



Sir, 



7oe, 

To William Strahan*. 



Having lost our Election at Southwark we are looking for 
a Borough less uncertain ^. If you can find by enquiry any seat 
to be had, as seats are had without natural interest, you will by 
giving immediate notice do a great favour to Mr. Thrale. The 
messenger shall call to-morrow for your answer. There arc, I 



extremely painful surgical operation, 
which she endured with extraordinary 
firmness and composure, not allow- 
ing herself to be tied to her chair, 
nor uttering a single moan.' — 
Malone. 

* Ante^ ii. 66, and posty Letter of 
October 22, 1782. 

' From the original in the posses- 
sion of Mr. Alfred Morrison of Font- 
hill House. 



^ The poll did not close till two 
days after Johnson wrote (ante^ ii. 
154, n, 2) ; but Thrale was so far 
behind the other two candidates that 
his defeat was certain. Johnson 
wrote to Boswell on October 17 : — 
' Mr. Thrale's loss of health has lost 
him the election.* Lifey iii. 442. For 
Johnson's identification of himself 
with the Thrales see aniCy i. 194, 



If. I. 



suppose 



204 



To the Reverend Samuel Hardy. [aj>. 1780. 



suppose, men who transact these affairs, but we do not know 
them '. Be so kind as to give us what information you can. 

I am. Sir. 

Your humble servant, 

s^jt. 13, 178a Sam: Johnson. 

To William Strahan, Esq. 



707. 

To THE Reverend Samuel Hardy'. 



Sir, 



I should be very sorry to be thoi^ht capable of treating 
with neglect or disrespect such a Man as You, or such an attempt 
as yours. I certainly wrote my opinion such as it was, long ago. 
I did not value it enough to keep a copy, and therefore must 
now tell it again, when the remembrance of your arguments is 
weakened by time. 

You will be pleased, Sir, to recollect that I professed myself 
unskilful in Biblical criticism ; my profession was very sincere, 
and I am far from desiring to obtrude my notions as decisive. 

I admitted without difficulty your prophesy by action^ all types 
are prophesies of that kind. But I know not whether the 
admissions of such prophesies will support your interpretation 
as there seems to be no action done. 



' Johnson might here have been 
properly reminded of what he had 
said five years earlier, tiiat 'the 
statutes against bribery were in- 
tended to prevent upstarts with 
money from getting into Parliament.' 

Lif^y ii- 339- 

' From the original in the posses- 
sion of the Rev. John W. Hardy, 
Hildenborough, Kent, great-grand- 
son of the divine to whom it is ad- 
dressed. 

The Rev. Samuel Hardy, D.D., 
afterwards Rector of Little Blaken- 
ham, Suffolk, and at this time After- 
noon Lecturer at the Parish Church 
of Enfield, Middlesex, published in 
1784 The Scripture - Account of 
the Nature and ends of the Holy 



Eucharist. In it he maintains (p. 4) 
' that the sixth chapter of St John is 
to be primarily interpreted of the 
Eucharists The miracle of the 
loaves was, he goes on to assert, ' a 
Prophecy by Action * (p. 2 1 ). He in- 
dicates passages in the Old Testa- 
ment where also may be found other 
Prophecies by Action (pp. 15-19). 
He begins his Preface by saying : — 
' Afflicted as I have been in body by 
the excruciating tortures of the gout ; 
distressed as I have been in mind by 
the barbarous murder of my son.' 

In Nichols's Lit, Hist.^ iv. 709, 
there is a slight notice of Dr. Hardy 
and of his son, the Rector of Lough- 
borough. 

Whether 



Aet«t.7i.] To John Nichols, 205 

Whether your explication or that which is generally received 
be considered as true, the use and importance of the Sacrament 
is the same, and therefore I cannot think the question such as 
in the present disposition of the world can properly or usefully 
be moved. Why should you run the hazard of being wrong, 
when Religion gains nothing by your being right ? 

Your arguments from the Old Testament do not appear to 
me to have any force, or to be applied with any probability to 
your present purpose. You will gain more upon the reader by 
omitting them, and trusting only to the passage in itself and to 
general reasoning. And if you publish your thoughts I think it 
best to give them the appearance rather of enquiry and con- 
jecture than of assertion and dogmatism. 

Once more, Sir, I do not pretend to decide the question which 

was new to me, and of which I have not perhaps the previous 

knowledge necessary to the examination. Enquire of men more 

learned in the Scriptures. You have from me the respect due 

to all diligent searchers after sacred Truth, and my wishes that 

you may be long able to continue your studies, to your own 

improvement, and instruction of others. 

I am, Sir, 

Your most humble Servant, 

Bolt Court, Fleet Street, SaM: JOHNSON. 

Sept. 33, 1780. 

708. 

To James Boswell. 
[London], October 17, 1780. Published in the Life^ iii. 441. 

709. 

^ To John Nichols ^ 

I think you never need send back the revises unless some- 

* First published in the Gentle- me to go with him ; and how long I 

maris Magazine iox 1785, page ii. shall stay, I cannot tell. I do not 

Nine days earlier Johnson, after much like the place, but yet I shall 

telling Boswell of Thrale's loss of the go, and stay while my stay is desired.' 

election, continued : — * He is now Ufe^ iii. 442. 
going to Brighthelmston, and expects 

thing 



2o6 To Airs. \Miss\ Prawse. [a.d.i78o. 

thing important occurs. Little things, if I omit them, you will 

do me the favour of setting right yourself. Our post is awkward 

as you will find, and I fancy you will find it best to send two 

sheets at once. 

I am, Sir, 

Your most humble servant, 

Brighthelmstone, SaM: JOHNSON. 

Oct. 36, 178a 

To Mr. Nicol. 

710. 

Maham '^^ M.^s. [Miss] Prowse'. 

I return you very sincere and respectful thanks for all your 
favours. You have, I see, sent guineas when I expected only 
pounds. It was beside my intention that you should make so 
much enquiry after Johnson. What can be known of him must 
start up by accident. He was not a Native of your town or 
country, but an adventurer who came from a distant part in 
quest of a livelihood, and did not stay a year. He came in 36, 
and went away in 37. He was likely enough to attract notice 
while he staid, as a lively noisy man, that loved company. His 
memory might probably continue for some time in some favourite 
alehouse. But after so many years perhaps there is no man 
left that remembers him. He was my near relation. 

The unfortunate woman for whom your excellent Mother has 
so kindly made provision is, in her way, well. I am now sending 
her some cloaths \sic\. Of her cure there is no hope. 

Be pleased, Madam, to accept the good wishes and grateful 

regard of, 

Madam, 

Your most obedient, 

and most humble Servant, 

Dec. 9, 178a Sam: Johnson. 

[Leaf torn off, no address.] 

' First published in Notes and sum of money which was sent to 

QuerieSi^iAi S. v. 441. Copied by me Johnson, and for an account of his 

from the original in the possession of ' near relation,' and the ' unfortimate 

the Rev. Edward B. Edgell. For the woman,' see ante^ ii. 194. 

To 



A«tat. 71.] 



To William Strahan. 



207 



711. 

To THE Reverend Dr. Vyse*. 
Sir, Dec. 30, 1780. 

I hope you will forgive the liberty I take, in soliciting 

your interposition with his grace the archbishop : my first petition 

was successful, and I therefore venture on a second. 

The matron of the Chartreux is about to resign her place ; 

and Mrs. Desmoulins, a daughter of the late Dr. Swinfen, who 

was well known to your father ', is desirous of succeeding her. 

She has been accustomed by keeping a boarding-school to the 

care of children, and I think is very likely to discharge her duty. 

She is in great distress, and therefore may probably receive the 

benefit of a charitable foundation. If you wish to see her, she 

will be willing to give an account of herself. 

If you shall be pleased, Sir, to mention her favourably to his 

grace, you will do a great act of kindness, to, 

Sir, 

Yours, &c.. 

To the Rev. Dr. Vyse at Lambeth. SaM : JOHNSON. 



712. 

To Warren Hastings. 

[London], January 29, 1781. Published in the Life^ iv. 70. 
The date is wrongly given by Boswell as January 9. The original 
is in the British Museum. 



Sir, 



718. 

To William Strahan^ 



Having now done my lives I shall have money to receive, 
and shall be glad to add to it what remains due for the Hebrides, 
which you cannot charge [me] with grasping very rapaciously *. 



* First published in Malone's Bos^ 
well. For Dr. Vyse and Johnson's 
'first petition* about the Chartreux 
or Charter House, see ante^ ii. 14. 

• Dr. Vyse's father was a Lichfield 
Clergyman, and Dr. Swinfen, John- 
son's godfather, was a physician of 
the same city. 



^ From the original in the posses- 
sion of Mr. Freo^rick Barker, of 41 
Gunterstone Road, West Kensington. 

* The Journey to the Hebrides was 
published at the beginning of 1775. 
Four thousand copies were printed. 
A second edition was not called for 
till 1785. Ufty ii. 310. 

The 



208 



To Thomas Cadell. 



[A.D. 1781. 



The price was two hundred guineas or pounds ; I think first 
pounds then guineas ^ I have had one hundred. 

There is likewise something due for the political pamphlets ', 
which I left without bargain to your liberality and Mr. Cadel's. 
Of this you will likewise think that I may have all together. 

I am, Sir, 

Your humble Servant, 

March 5, 1781. SaM : JOHNSON. 

To William Strahan, Esq. 

714. 

To Thomas Cadell. 

[London] March 5, 1781. 

In Messrs Puttick and Simpson's Auction Catalogue for December 
19, 1850, Lot 300 is an autograph Letter of Johnson to Mr. Cadell, 
dated March 5, 1781 : — ' Desiring payment to be made for some sets of 
the Poets and Lives sent on his account to Mr. Boswell. He refers to 
his last work, the Lives of the Poets, in the conclusion of the letter. " I 
am glad that the work is at last done.'' ' 

Johnson ' sent a set both of the Lives and the Poets to dear Mrs. 
Boswell in acknowledgment of her marmalade.' Life, iii. 372. 

This Letter was sold by Messrs. Sotheby and Co. on May 10, 1875, 
for jQi 17J. 6d. (Lot 97). 

715. 

To James Boswell. 
[London], March 14, 1781. Published in the Life, iv. 71. 

716. 

To Sir Joshua Reynolds. 
[London, April 4, 1781.] Published in the Lt/e, iv. 84. 



' Dilly, the bookseller, said : — 
* As to the terms it was left entirely 
to the Doctor to name his own ; he 
mentioned two hundred guineas ; it 
was immediately agreed to.' Life, 
iiL III. 'The booksellers spon- 
taneously added a third hundred.' 
lb. iv. 35, n, 3. Malone says that 
' had he asked one thousand, or even 



fifteen hundred guineas, the book- 
sellers, who knew the value of his 
name, would doubtless have readily 
given it.' lb, iii. iii, ». i. See ante^ 
i. 79, n. I. 

* His four political pamphlets were 
collected into a volume in 1776, with 
the title Political Tracts, Life, ii. 

315. 

To 



Aetai.71.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



209 



717. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 

Dearest Madam, London, April 5, 1781. 

Of your injunctions, to pray for you and write to you, I 
hope to leave neither unobserved ; and I hope to find you 
willing in a short time to alleviate your trouble by some other 
exercise of the mind. I am not without my part of the calamity. 
No death since that of my wife has ever oppressed me like this '. 
But let us remember, that we are in the hands of Him who knows 
when to give and when to take away; who will look upon us 
with mercy through all our variations of existence, and who in- 
vites us to call on him in the day of trouble. Call upon him in 
this great revolution of life, and call with confidence. You will 



' Pioszi Letters y ii. 191. 

Boswell who had come up to 
London on March 19 *had found 
Mr. Thrale very ilL He had removed 
to a house in Grosvenor Square. I 
was sorry,' he adds, 'to see him 
sadly changed in his appearance.' 
Lifgy iv. 72. Nevertheless the usual 
hospitality went on. Miss Bumey 
describes * a very gay party to dinner ' 
less than a week before his death. 
Mme. D'Arbla/s Diary , ii. 14. A 
note which she had from Mrs. 
Thrale * is endorsed : — " Written a 
few hours after the death of Mr. 
Thrale, which happened by a sudden 
stroke of apoplexy on the morning of 
a day on which half the fashion of 
London had been invited to an 
assembly at his house."' lb. p. 15. 
Johnson recorded in his Diary : — * At 
night I was called to him, and found 
him senseless in strong convulsions. 
I staid in the room except that I 
visited Mrs. Thrale twice.* Johnson 
said: — *His servants would have 
waited upon him in this awful period, 
and why not his friend?' Li/e^ iv. 

o4i ^« 4* 
As Mrs. Thrale had fled to Bath 

VOL. II. 



after her son's death {U/ey iii. 6, n.i) 
so she hurried away from her dead 
husband. * Pepys,' she writes, * came 
at ten [on the night Mr. Thrale was 
attacked], and never left the house 
till early light showed me the way to 
Streatham ; and from thence, hoping 
still less disturbance, to Brighthelm- 
stone, where we had a house of our 
own, and whither you will see the 
letters all addressed.' Hayward*s 
Piozziy i. 304. Thrale died about 
five o'clock in the morning. Li/e^ iv. 

841 ^* 4* 

' Yet he had lost * his beloved 
friend Dr. Bathurst, of whom he 
hardly ever spoke without tears in 
his eyes' (Z//<f, i. 190), and his 
mother, * whose death was one of the 
few calamities,' he said, 'on which 
he thought with terror* (ante^ i. 
20) ; not to mention Goldsmith and 
Beauclerk. See antey ii. 100, where 
he writes to Mrs. Thrale: — * There 
is nobody left for me to care about 
but you and my master, and I have 
now for many years known the value 
of his friendship, and the importance 
of his life, too well not to have him 
very near my heart.' 

then 



2IO 



To Mrs. ThraU. 



[A.D. 1781. 



then find comfort for the past, and support for the future. He 
that has given you happiness in marriage, to a degree of which, 
without personal knowledge, I should have thought the descrip- 
tion fabulous, can give you another mode of happiness as a 
mother ' ; and at last, the happiness of losing all temporal cares 
in the thoughts of an eternity in heaven. 

I do not exhort you to reason yourself into tranquillity. We 
must first pray, and then labour; first implore the blessing of 
God, and [then employ] those means which he puts into our 
hands. Cultivated ground has few weeds ; a mind occupied by 
lawful business, has little room for useless regret '. 

We read the will to-day^; but I will not fill my first letter 
with any other account than that, with all my zeal for your ad- 
vantage, I am satisfied; and that the other executors ^ more 



' Five months later she recorded 
or pretended to record in her 
Journal : — * September, 1781. — My 
five fair daughters too ! I have so 
good a pretence to wish for long life 
to see them settled. Like the old 
fellow in " Lucian " one is never at a 
loss for an excuse. They are five 
lovely creatures to be sure, but they 
love not me. Is it my fault or theirs ? ' 
Hayward's Piozziy ii. 342. Two 
years after her husband's death she 
wrote : — * Mr. Thrale had not much 
heart, but his fair daughters have 
none at all.* lb, p. 344. Of these 
five daughters the eldest was at the 
time of their father's death sixteen, 
and the youngest two. This last died 
two years later— not five years old 
and without a heart. Posty Letter of 
May I, 1783. 

' Gibbon wrote to Lord Sheffield 
on hearing of the death of Lady 
Sheffield : — * I will not expatiate on 
those common-place topics which 
have never dried a single tear ; but 
let me advise, let me urge you to force 
yourself into business, as I would 
try to force myself into study. The 
mind must not be idle ; if it be not 



exercised on external objects it will 
prey on its own vitals.* Gibbon's 
Misc, Works y i. 400. 

^ In a long note on this passage 
Mrs. Thrale writes : — * It was neither 
kind or civil, you will say, to open 

the will in my absence My 

husband left me the interest of 
;^5o,ooo for my life, doubtless in 
return for my diligence during our 
distresses in 1772, because it is 
specified to be given over and above 
what was provided in our marriage 
settlement. He left me also the plate, 
pictures and linen of both houses, 
forgetting even to name Brighthelm- 
stone, so all I had bought for that 
place fell to the ladies [her daughters] 
who said loudly what a wretched 
match their poor papa had made.* 
Hay ward's Piozzi, i. 293. 

* Miss Bumey, who had been 
staying with Mrs. Thrale, wrote on 
April 29 : — * The four executors, Mr. 
Cator, Mr. Crutchley, Mr. Henry 
Smith and Dr. Johnson have all be- 
haved generously and honourably. 
She is to carry on the business jointly 
with them.' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary ^ 
ii. 2a 

used 



Aetot.7i.] To Mrs. Thrale, 211 

used to consider property than I, commended it for wisdom and 
equity. Yet why should I not tell you that you have five 
hundred pounds for your immediate expenses, and two thousand 
pounds a-year, with both the houses and all the goods ? 

Let us pray for one another, that the time, whether long or 
short, that shall yet be granted us, may be well spent ; and that 
when this life, which at the longest is very short, shall come to 
an end, a better may b^n which shall never end. 

I am, dearest Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

718. 

To Mrs. Thrale ^ 
Dear Madam, April;, 1781. 

I hope you b^in to find your mind grow clearer. My part 
of the loss hangs upon me. I have lost a friend of boundless 
kindness at an age when it is very unlikely that I should find 
another '. 

If you think change of place likely to relieve you, there is no 
reason why you should not go to Bath ^ ; the distances are un- 
equal, but with regard to practice and business they are the same. 
It is a day's journey from either place ; and the post is more 
expeditious and certain to Bath ^. Consult only your own in- 
clination, for there is really no other principle of choice. God 
direct and bless you. 

' Pio2zi Letters, ii. 193. to waste your health in unprofitable 

' On his next birthday he wrote : — sorrow, but go to Bath, and en- 

' My first knowledge of Thrale was deavour to prolong your own life.' 

in 1765. I enjoyed his favour for Life, iv. loa 

almost a fourth part of ray life.' Pr. * The other place was Brighton, 

and Med,, p. 191. Miss Bumey to which, at this season of the year, 

records how he had often with her the post went only four days a week, 

* long and melancholy discourses whereas to Bath it went every night 

about our dear deceased master, but Sunday. See fost, p. 216, where 

whom indeed he regrets incessantly.' it is stated that a letter written by 

Mme. D^Arblay's Diary, ii. 63. Mrs. Thrale at Brighton on Wednes- 

^ Two or three weeks later he day was received by Johnson on 

wrote to Mrs. Strahan who had lost Saturday, 
her son : — * Let me counsel you not 

P 3 Mr. C 



212 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A.D. 1781. 



Mr. C has offered Mr. P ' money, but it was not 

wanted. I hope we shall all do all we can to make you less 
unhappy, and you must do all you can for yourself. What we, 
or what you can do, will for a time be but little ; yet certainly 
that calamity which may be considered as doomed to fall in- 
evitably on half mankind, is not finally without alleviation *. 

It is something for me, that as I have not the decrepitude I have 
not the callousness of old age ^. I hope in time to be less afflicted. 

I am, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

719. 

To Mrs. Thrale *. 

Dearest Madam, London, April 9, i/Sr. 

That you are gradually recovering your tranquillity, is the 
effect to be humbly expected from trust in God. Do not repre- 
sent life as darker than it is. Your loss has been very great, but 
you retain more than almost any other can hope to possess. You 
are high in the opinion of mankind ; you have children from 
whom much pleasure may be expected ; and that you will find 
many friends, you have no reason to doubt. Of my friendship, 
be it worth more or less, I hope you think yourself certain, with- 
out much art or care. It will not be easy for me to repay the 
benefits that I have received ; but I hope to be always ready at 
your call. Our sorrow has different effects ; you are withdrawn 
into solitude, and I am driven into company ^. I am afraid of 



' * Cator and Perkins.'— Baretti. 
Cator was one of the executors ; he 
offered no doubt to advance money 
to Perkins, the Superintendent of the 
Brewery, if any were needed. 

* I think that Johnson says here 
what he said to Mr. Elphinston on 
the death of his wife {ante^ ii. 67) : — 
'In the condition of mortal beings 
one must lose another. What would 
be the wretchedness of life, if there 
was not something always in view, 
some Being, immutable and unfailing, 
to whose mercy man may have re- 
course ! ' 

^ For Johnson's not having the 



decrepitude of old age, see ante^ 
ii. 202, n, 2, and Life^ iii. 302, 336. 
For the callousness, see Rambler^ No. 
78, where he writes : — * I believe men 
may be generally observed to grow 
less tender as they advance in age.' 
Chesterfield says :— * The heart never 
grows better by age ; I fear rather 
worse ; always harder.' Letters to 
his Son, iii. 18. 

* Pioszi Letters y ii. 195. 

* Two days after Th rale's death 
Johnson carried Boswell to his City 
Club in St, Paul's Church-yard, com- 
posed of men who were not patriots, 
Ufe^ iv. Zt. 

thinking 



Aetot.71.] To Mrs. Thrale. 213 

thinking what I have lost. I never had such a friend before. Let 
me have your prayers and those of my dear Queeney. 

The prudence and resolution of your design to return so soon 
to your business and your duty deserves great praise ; I shall 
communicate it on Wednesday to the other executors. Be 
pleased to let me know whether you would have me come to 
Streatham to receive you, or stay here till the next day. 

I am, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

720. 

To THE Reverend Dr. VvsE^ 
Rev. Sir, Bolt Court, April lo, 1781. 

The bearer is one of my old friends, a man of great learning, 
whom the chancellor has been pleased to nominate to the Char- 
treux. He attends his grace the archbishop, to take the oath 
required ; and being a modest scholar, will escape embarrassment, 
if you are so kind as to introduce him, by which you will do a 
kindness to a man of great merit, and add another to those favours 
which have already been conferred by you on, 

Sir, &c., 

To the Rev. Dr. Vyse at Lambeth. Sam : JOHNSON. 

721. 

To Mrs. Thrale*. 
Dear Madam, London, April II, 1781. 

I am glad to hear from my dear Miss ^ that you have re- 
covered tranquillity enough to think on bathing; but there 
is no disposition in the world to leave you long to yourself. 

Mr. P pretends that your absence produces a thousand 

difficulties, which I believe it does not produce. He frights 
Mr. C • • • • ^. Mr. C is of my mind, that there is no 

' Published in Croker's Boswelly ' Piozzi Letters y ii. 196. 

page 654. ' * Miss Thrale,' wrote Miss Bur- 

The bearer of the letter was John- ney on April 29, *■ is steady and con- 
son's old amanuensis, Alexander stant, and very sincerely grieved for 
Macbean, whom * by the favour of her father.* Mme. D'Arblay's Diaryy 
Lord Thurlow he got admitted a poor ii. 20. 

brother of the Charter-house.* Life^ * * P is Perkins and C 

i. 187; iii. 441. For Macbean's death Cator.' Baretti. 
^^posi, Letter of June 26, 1784. 

need 



214 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A.D. 1781. 



need of hurry. I would not have this importunity give you 
any alarm or disturbance; but, to pacify it, come as soon as 
you can prevail upon your mind to mingle with business. I 
think business the best remedy for grief as soon as it can be 
admitted. 

We met to-day, and were told of mountainous difficulties, till 
I was provoked to tell them, that if there were really so much 
to do and suffer, there would be no executors in the world '. 
Do not suffer yourself to be terrified. 

I comfort you, and hope God will bless and support you ; but 
I feel myself like a man beginning a new course of life. I had 
interwoven myself with my dear friend ' ; but our great care 
ought to be, that we may be fit and ready, when in a short time 
we shall be called to follow him. 

There is, however, no use in communicating to you my heavi- 
ness of heart. I thank dear Miss for her letter. 

I am, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 



722. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 

Dearest Madam, London, April 12, 1781. 

You will not suppose that much has happened since last 
night, nor indeed is this a time for talking much of loss and 
gain. The business of Christians is now for a few days in their 
own bosoms. God grant us to do it properly. I hope you gain 
ground on your affliction. I hope to overcome mine. You and 
Miss must comfort one another. May you long live happily 
together. I have nobody whom I expect to share my uneasiness, 
nor, if I could communicate it, would it be less. I give it little 
vent, and amuse it as I can*. Let us pray for one another. 



' See ante^ ii. 126, and Li/ey iv. 
85, n, 2, for the interest Johnson had 
long taken in Thrale's business. 

■ On September 2 of this year he 
recorded : — * When Thrale's health 
was broken, for many months, I 
think, before his death, I constantly 
mentioned him in my prayers ; and 



after his death have made particular 
supplication for his surviving family 
to this day.' Pr, and Med. p. 198. 

' Piozzt Letters, ii. 198. 

* It was on this day that, though 
it was the day before Good Friday, 
he dined abroad — for the second 
time this Passion Week. It was true 

And, 



A0tat. 71.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



215 



And, when we meet, we may try what fidelity and tenderness 
will do for us. 

There is no wisdom in useless and hopeless sorrow'; but 
there is something in it so like virtue, that he who is wholly 
without it cannot be loved, nor will by me at least be thought 
worthy of esteem '. My next letter will be to Queeney. 

I am, &C.9 

Sam: Johnson. 

723. 

To Mrs. Porter. 
London, April 12, 1781. Published in the Life^ iv. 89. 



724. 

T^ _, To Mrs. Thrale ^ . ., .^o. 

Dear Madam, Apni 14, 178 1. 

My intention was to have written this day to my dear 
Queeney; but I have just heard from you, and therefore this 
letter shall be yours. I am glad that you find the behaviour of 
your acquaintance such as you can commend. The world is not 
so unjust or unkind as it is peevishly represented. Those who 
deserve well seldom fail to receive from others such services as they 
can perform ; but few have much in their power, or are so stationed 
as to have great leisure from their own affairs, and kindness 
must be commonly the exuberance of content *. The wretched 
have no compassion, they can do good only from strong prin- 
ciples of duty. 



he dined at a. Bishop's — which 
supplied him with that ' ingenious 
ddence' which Boswell has pre- 
served. Ufe^ iv. 88. It is very likely 
however that he was, as he said, 
* driven into company ' by his friend's 
death. For amuse see ante^ i. 283, 
n, 5. 

' * Johnson never grieved much for 
anything. His trade was wisdom.' 
Baretti. 

' * Boswell. " But, Sir, we do 
not approve of a man who very soon 
forgets the loss of a wife or a friend." 
Johnson. "Sir, we disapprove of 



him, not because he soon forgets his 
gpief, for the sooner it is forgotten 
the better ; but because we suppose, 
that if he forgets his wife or his 
friend soon, he has not had much 
affection for them." ' Ufe^ iii. 137. 

' Piozssi Letters^ ii. 199. 

* * Really it is wonderful,* said 
Johnson, * considering how much at- 
tention is necessary for men to take 
care of themselves, and ward off im- 
mediate evils which press upon 
them, it is wonderful how much they 
do for others.* Life^ iii. 336. 

I purpose 



2l6 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A.D. 1781. 



I purpose to receive you at Streatham, but wonder that you 
come so soon. 

I sent immediately to Mr. Perkins to send you twenty pounds, 
and intended to secure you from disappointment by inclosing a 
note in this; but yours written on Wednesday nth, came not 
till Saturday the 14th, and mine written to-night, will not come 
before you leave Brighthelmston, unless you have put Monday 
next for Monday sevennight, which I suspect, as you mention no 
alteration of your mind. 



I am, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 



726. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 

Dear Madam, London, April 16, 1781. 

As I was preparing this day to go to Streatham, according 
to the direction of your letter of the i ith, which I could not know, 
though I suspected it, to be erroneous, I received two letters, 
of which the first effect was, that it saved me a fruitless journey. 
Of these letters, that which I perceive to have been written first 
has no date of time or place ; the second was written on the 
14th, but they came together. 

I forbore, because I would not disturb you, to tell you, that 

last week Mr. came to talk about partnership, and was very 

copious. I dismissed him with nothing harsher than, that I was 
not convinced^ . 



' Piozzi Letters^ ii. 202. 

' Mr. Perkins, no doubt, was the 
copious talker. Mrs. Piozzi writes : — 
'On Mr. Thrale's death I kept the 
counting-house from nine every morn- 
ing till fiy^ o'clock every evening till 
June, when God Almighty sent us 
a knot of rich Quakers who bought 
the whole, and saved me and my 
coadjutors from brewing ourselves 
into another bankruptcy ; which 
hardly could, I think, have been 
avoided, being, as we were, five in 
number, Cator, Crutchley, Johnson, 
myself and Mr. Smith, all with equal 



power, yet all incapable of using it 
without help from Mr. Perkins, who 
wished to force himself intqi partner- 
ship, though hating the whole lot of 
us, save only me. Upon my promise 
however that if he would find us a 
purchaser, I would present his wife 
with my dwelling-house at the 
Borough and all its furniture, he 
soon brought forward these Quaker 
Barclays, and they obtained the 
Brewhouse a prodigious bargain. 
Among all my fellow- executors none 
but Johnson opposed selling the 
business. He found some odd de- 

You 



Aetat. 71.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



217 



You will have much talk to hear. Mr. C * speaks with 

great exuberance, but what he says, when at last he says it, is 

commonly right. Mr. ' made an oration flaming with the 

terrifick, which I discovered to have no meaning at all ; for the 
result was, that if we stopped payment we should lose credit. 

I have written to Mr. Robson ^ to send the will. There were 
two copies, but I know not who has them. 

You are to receive five hundred pounds immediately \ Mr. 
Scrase shall certainly see the will, if you and I go to Bright- 
helmston on purpose, which, if we have any difficulty, may be 
our best expedient. 

I am encouraged, dearest lady, by your spirit. The season 
for agues is now over ^. You are in your civil character a man. 



light in signing drafts for hundreds 
and thousands, to him a new, and, 
as it appeared, delightful occupation.' 
Hay ward's Piozziy i. 294. 

Miss Bumey thus writes of the day 
of the sale :— * Mrs. Thrale went 
early to town, to meet all the ex- 
ecutors, and Mr. Barclay, the Quaker, 
who was the bidder. She was in 
great agitation of mind, and told me 
if all went well she would wave a 
white handkerchief out of the coach- 
window. Four o'clock came and 
dinner was ready, and no Mrs. 
Thrale. Queeny and I went out 
upon the lawn, where we sauntered in 
eager expectation, till near six, and 
then the coach appeared in sight, 
and a white handkerchief was waved 
from it.* Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, 
ii. 34. The brewery was sold for 
;£x35>ooo. Life, iv. 132. See fast, 
p. 222. 

I hoped to ascertain from Burke's 
Landed Gentry which of the de- 
scendants of the author of the 
Apology for Quakers purchased the 
great Brewery ; but apparently it was 
thought too trifling a matter in the 
history of the family to require any 
record. 



' *Cator.' Baretti. Miss Bumey 
gives the following specimen of his 
talk at this time. ' One speech (she 
adds) will do for a thousand : — " As 
to this here question of Lord Lyttel- 
ton I can*t speak to it to the purpose, 
as I have not read his Life\ for I 
have only read the Ufe of Pope\ 
I have got the books though, for 
I sent for them last week, and they 
came to me on Wednesday, and then 
I began them ; but I have not yet 
read Lord Lyttelton. Pope I have 
begun, and that is what I am now 
reading. But what I have to say 
about Lord Lyttelton is this here ; 
Mr. Seward says that Lord Lyttel- 
ton's steward dunned Mr. Shenstone 
for his rent, by which I understand 
he was a tenant of Lord Lyttelton's. 
Well, if he was a tenant of Lord 
Lyttelton*s, why should not he pay 
his rent?" Who could contradict 
this ?' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, ii. 48. 

' 'Perkins.' Baretti. 

' See next letter. 

^ In accordance with the direction 
in the will. Ante, ii. 211. 

' *This ague fit of fear is over- 
blown.* 
Richard II, Act iii. sc. 2, L 190. 

You 



2l8 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A.D. 1781. 



You may sue and be sued '. If you apply to business perhaps 
half the mind which you have exercised upon knowledge and 
elegance, you will, need little help, what help however I can give 
you, will, I hope, be always at call. 

(Make my compliments to Mr. Scrase.) 

I am, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

726. 

To John Nichols'. 

Mr. Johnson desires Mr. Nicol to send him a set of the last 
lives, and would be glad to know how the octavo edition goes 
forward. 

Monday, April i6, 1781. 
To Mr. Nicol. 

727. 

To Mrs. Thrale ^. 

Dear Madam, April 17, 1781. 

Mr. Norris (Mr. Robson's partner) * promised to send the 
will to-morrow ; you will therefore have it before you have this 
letter. When you have talked with Mr. Scrase, write diligently 
down all that you can remember, and, where you have any diffi- 
culties, ask him again, and rather stay where you are a few days 
longer than come away with imperfect information. 



' * If the wife be injured in her 
person or her property she can bring 
no action for redress without her 
husband's concurrence, and in his 
name as well as her own; neither 
can she be sued, without making the 
husband a defendant.' Blackstone's 
Commentaries J ed. 1775, i. 443. By 
the death of her husband she re- 
gained the rights of a single woman. 
By the Married Women's Property 
Act, 1882 (45 and 46 Vict. c. 75), *a 
married woman shall be capable of 
entering into and rendering herself 
liable in respect of and to the extent 
of her separate property on any con- 
tract, and of suing and being suedy 
either in contract or in tort, or other- 



wise, in all respects as if she were a 
feme sole,' 

' First published in the Gentle- 
man* s Magazine for 1 785, page 11. 

The Lives were published sepa- 
rately as well as in the collected 
edition of the Poets. In 1779 four 
volumes duodecimo were published, 
and in 1781 the remaining six. In 
the same year an octavo edition in 
four volumes was brought out 

' Piozzi Letters^ ii. 200. 

This letter is misplaced by Mrs. 
Piozzi, as it should have followed, 
not preceded, that of April 16. 

* No doubt they were Mr. Thrale's 
solicitors. 

The 



Aetat. 71.] 



To Mrs. \^Miss\ Prawse. 



219 



The executors will hardly meet till you come, for we have 
nothing to do till we go all together to prove the will. 

I have not had a second visit from Mr. , for he found 

his discourse to me very unavailing. I was dry; but if he goes 

to he will be overpowered with words as good as his 

own. appears a very modest inoffensive man, not likely 

to give any trouble \ The difficulty of finding executors 
Mr. Scrase has formerly told you, and among all your ac- 
quaintance, except P , whom you pressed into the service, 

and who would perhaps have deserted it% I do not see with 
whom you could have been more commodiously connected. 
They all mean well, and will, I think, all concur. 

Miss told me that you intended to bathe ; it is right : all 

external things are diversions : let her bathe too. I r^ain that 

tranquillity which irremediable misfortunes necessarily admit, 

and do not, I hope, think on what I have lost, without grateful 

recollection of what I hav.e enjoyed. 

I am, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

728. 

To Mrs. Strahan. 
[London], April 23, 1781. Published in the Life, iv. 100. 



729. 

Madam '^^ Mibls. [Miss] Prowse^ 

Having lately had a melancholy occasion to search my 



* The first of these three men is, 
I conjecture, Perkins, the second 
Cnitchley, and the third Henry 
Smith (ante, ii. 210, n, 4). Mrs. 
Piozzi says : — * Cnitchley hated Per- 
kins, and lived upon the verge of 
a quarrel with him every day while 
they acted together. Smith cursed 
the whole business, and wondered 
what his relation, Mr. Thrale, could 
mean by leaving him ;£200, he said, 
and such a burden on his back to 
bear for it.* Hayward's Piozxi, i. 295. 



' See anie, ii. 126, for Johnson's 
letter about trustees. Perkins was 
not an executor, so that Johnson 
means, I think, that Mra. Thrale had 
tried to have him made one. 

^ First published in Notes and 
Queries, 4th S. v. 441. Copied by 
me from the original in the pos- 
session of the Rev. Edward B. 
Edgell, of Bromham Rectory, Chip- 
penham. 

For the subject of the Letter see 
ante^ ii. 193. 

chests 



220 



To John Nichols. 



[AJ>. 1781. 



chests for mourning, I found in one of the pockets this tattered 
letter, which seems to prove that you have remitted to me more 
money than was due ' ? 

You see, Madam, that I was paid, or might have been paid by 
your good Mother to -76. It is not likely that I n^lected to 
call on the Banker, yet it is possible, but the Banker's books will 
clear the question. I am willing to suppose that I received it, 
for it would be hard that Charity should be cheated '. 

In a few weeks will be published with my name some Lives 
of the Poets ^, of which if you will be pleased to favour me by 
accepting a copy, I beg that you will let me know to whom in 
London I may send them, that they may be conveyed to you. 

I am. Madam, 

Your most humble Servant, 

N.B. Bolt Court, Fleet Street, London. SaM : JOHNSON. 

May 7, 1781. 

7ao. 

To Mr. Perkins. 
[London], June 2, 1781. Published in the Z^, iv. 118. 



Sir, 



78L 

To John Nichols ^ 



My desire being to complete the sets of lives which I have 
formerly presented to my friends, I have occasion for few of the 



' The letter, as is shown in the 
next paragraph, was written in 1776. 
In the spring of that year he wore, 
no doubt, the mourning for the 
funeral of young Harry Thrale, as 
he now wore it for the funeral of 
Harry's father. He had attended 
also Garrick*s funeral in 1779. Ufe^ 
iv. 208. 

* On the blank sheet of the paper 
is written : — * On searching Child's 
accounts I found the year 76 had 
been paid. I therefore omitted the 
present year's payment, and acknow- 
ledged the Books which I soon after 



received.' She had sent him back- 
payments for six years from 178a 
Ante^ ii. 193, n, 4. She should, it 
seems, have omitted two years' pay- 
ments, unless no payment had been 
made for 1775. 

^ The octavo edition in four 
volumes, published this year. 

* First published in the Gentle- 
man*s Magazine for 1785, page 11. 

Johnson had presented the first 
four volumes published in 1779 to 
his friends. With the issue of the 
last six in 1 781 he had received fresh 
sets of the first four, of most of which 

first 



Aetai. 71.] 



To Miss Reynolds. 



221 



first volumes, of which by some misapprehension I have received 

a great number, which I desire to exchange for the latter volumes. 

I wish success to the new edition. 

Please to present to Mr. Steevens a complete set of the Lives 

in lamo'. 

I am, Sir, 

Your most humble Servant, 

June lo, 1781. Sam : JOHNSON. 

To Mr. Nicol. 

782. 

To Bennet Langton. 

Bolt Court, June 16, 1781. Published in the Life^ iv. 132. 

788. 

To Sir Joshua Reynolds. 
[London], June 23, 1781. Published in the Lift^ iv. 133. 



734. 

To Miss Reynolds*. 
Dear Madam, asth June, 1781. 

You may give the book to Mrs. Horneck/, and I will give 

you another for yourself. 

I am afraid there is no hope of Mrs. Thrale's custom for your 

pictures ; but, if you please, I will mention it. She cannot make 

a pension out of her jointure ^ 

I will bring the papers myself. 

I am, Madam, 

Your most humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 



he had no need. What he wanted 
was enough of the last six volumes 
to complete the sets of those friends 
to whom he had given the first four. 
*The new edition' was the one in 
octavo. 

' Steevens had supplied him with 
some anecdotes and quotations. 
Life^ iv. 37. 

' First published in Croker's Bos- 



well^ page 697. 

^ Antty i. 344, n, 2. 

* * Miss Reynolds, it seems, wished 
to dispose of her collection, and 
thought that Mrs. Thrale might pur- 
chase and pay for it by an annuity.' 
Croker. She had bought a few 
very fine pictures in Paris at a very 
small price. Northcote's Ufe of 
Reynolds^ i. 202. 

To 



222 



To Miss Bumey. 



[A.D. 178L 



786. 



Sir, 



To [Mr. Perkins]*. 



Mrs. Thrale has informed me of the iron resolution of Mr. 
Cator and Mr. Crutchley. They have law on their side, and 
cannot be opposed. What then can be done ? If time will do 
any thing for you, that you may apply to your friends, I will 
struggle for that. I think Mr. Barclay's interest so much requires 
your concurrence and assistance, that if you cannot procure 
security, he must help you. His difficulties are only niceties. 
Do not be bashful, use all the efforts that you can. 

I am. Sir, 

Your humble Servant, 

July 2, 1781. Sam : Johnson. 

I shall come to you this morning, but I will meet Mrs. Thrale 
to-morrow about twelve. 



786. 

To Miss BURNEV*. 

Dear Madam, 

Pray let these books be sent after the former to the gentle- 
man whose name I do not know. 

I am, Madam, 

Your most humble servant, 
July 9, 1781. Sam : Johnson. 



' From the original in the pos- 
session of Mr. W. G. Anderson, of 
Beechhill, Fairfield, Liverpool. 

On the day on which this letter 
was written. Miss Bumey in her 
Diary praises *Mrs. Thrale's gene- 
rosity to Mr. Perkins, whom she does 
not like. Everything in her power 
is she doing to establish him com- 
fortably in the Brewhouse, even to 
the lending all her own money that 
is in the Stocks.' Miss Bumey adds 
that Mr. Crutchley, ' though he cared 



not himself if Perkins were drowned, 
offered to lend him a thousand 
pounds, merely by way of giving 
pleasure to Mrs. Thrale.' Mme. 
D'Arbla/s Diary^ ii. 72. Perkins, 
who had knowledge of the business, 
had not, it is clear, capital enough 
at his command to pay for his share. 

■ First published in 7'A/^ari{K^'tfO' 
of Frances Bumey ^ ed. 1889, i. 169. 

The gentleman was William Bewly 
a country-surgeon, 'well known in 
Norfolk by the name of the Phtloso- 

To 



Aetat 71.] 



To Miss Reynolds. 



223 



787. 

To Thomas Astle. 
[London], July 17, 1781. Published in the Life^ iv. 133. 



738. 

To Miss Reynolds ^ 
Dearest Madam, Bolt Court, July 21, 1781. 

There is in these \pap€rst\ such force of comprehension, 
such nicety of observation, as Locke or Pascal might be proud 
of. This I say with an intention to have you think I speak my 
opinion. They cannot, however, be printed in their present 
state. Many of your notions seem not very clear in your own 
mind ; many are not sufficiently developed and expanded for the 
common reader : the expression almost every where wants to 



pher of Massingham^ a great ad- 
mirer of Johnson's writings. * When 
Dr. Bumey visited Dr. Johnson at 
the Temple he arrived there before 
he was up. Being shown into the 
room where he was to breakfast, 
finding himself alone, he examined 
the contents of the apartment, to 
try whether he could undiscovered 
steal any thing to send to his friend 
Bewley, as another relick of the ad- 
mirable Dr. Johnson. But finding 
nothing better to his purpose, he cut 
some bristles off his hearth-broom, 
and enclosed them in a letter to his 
country enthusiast, who received them 
with due reverence. The Doctor was 
so sensible of the honour done him 
by a man of genius and science, to 
whom he was an utter stranger, that 
he said to Dr. Bumey, " Sir, there is 
no man possessed of the smallest 
portion of modesty, but must be 
flattered with the admiration of such 
a man. I'll give him a set of my 
Lives y if he will do me the honour 
to accept of them." * He sent them 
to Dr. Bumey's house directed, * For 



the Broom Gentleman.' Ufe^ iv. 134 ; 
Early Diary ^ ^r., i. 18, n, i, and 
Memoirs of Dr. Bumey y ii. 180. 
The books which he now sent were 
the later volumes of the Lives. 

' First published in Croker's Bos^ 
welly page 697. 

In the sixth edition of Boswell 
(181 1), iv. 143, is given a version of 
this letter which differs in not a few 
words. It was perhaps written down 
from memory by some one who had 
been allowed to read the original. 

Miss Reynolds's work, writes North- 
cote, was called An Essay on Taste. 
* It was privately printed, but was 
never published.* He gives some 
specimens of it, of which the follow- 
ing is perhaps the best : — * There is 
always something respectable in the 
object that excites the strongest ridi- 
cule, otherwise it would want the 
contrast which makes it ridiculous.' 
Life of Reynolds y ii. 11 5-8. Respect- 
able, at this time, meant worthy of 
respect. 

There is no copy of Miss Reynolds's 
work in the British Museum. 

be 



224 ^^ '^ Reverend Dr. Thomas Patten, [a.d. 1781. 



be made clearer and smoother. You may, by revisal and im- 
provement, make it a very elegant work. 

I am, 

My dearest dear. 

Your most humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 

739. 

To THE Reverend Dr. Thomas Patten,'. 

Dear Sir, Sept. 25, 1781. 

It is so long since we passed any time together, that you 
may be allowed to have forgotten some part of my character ; 
and I know not upon what other supposition I can pass without 
censure or complaint the ceremony of your address. Let me 
not trifle time in words, to which while we speak or write them 
we assign little meaning. Whenever you favour me with a letter, 
treat me as one that is glad of your kindness and proud of your 
esteem '. 



' First published in the Gentle- 
man*s Magazine for April, 18 19, i. 

293. 

Dr. Patten was Rector of Childrey 

near Wantage, where he died on 
February 28, 1790. Gentleman* s 
Magazine^ i79o> P- 368, where is 
given a list of his publications. The 
Rev. Thomas Wilson, Head Master 
of Clitheroe Grammar School, pub- 
lished in 1782 an ArchcBological 
Dictionary; or Classical Antiquities 
of the Jews, Greeks and Romans j 
alphabetically arranged. It was dedi- 
cated to Johnson, who acknowledged 
the honour in a letter in the Li/ej 
iv. 162. The book is a small octavo. 
' It wrll, I trust,' says the author in 
his Preface, ' be found a ready Oracle 
to the Student and Gentleman of 
Classical Taste, and an useful Re- 
membrancer to the Man of Erudi- 
tion.' A curious account of Wilson 
is given in some numbers of the 
Preston Guardian at the end of 
December, 1888. 



' In his letter to Johnson, Dr. 
Patten had said : — * Nothing would 
more highly gratify my taste and my 
pride than a correspondence with my 
dear and honoured friend Johnson.' 
But he is afraid, he continues, of 
* the Master of the Sentences.' He 
concludes by signing himself * one of 
your most faithful and most affec- 
tionate friends.' Of his intimacy with 
him nothing, I believe, is known. In 
his letter he quotes the following 
lines in Miscellany Poems on several 
Occasions, Written by a Lady^ 1713: — 
* Now the Jonquille o'erwhelms the 

feeble brain. 
We faint beneath the aromatic 
pain.' 
They are the source, he says, of 
Pope's lines in the Essay on Many i. 
199:— 

' Or, quick effluvia darting thro* the 
brain. 
Die of a rose in aromatic pain ? ' 
Gentleman^ s Magazine ^ 18 19, i. 
291. 

The 



Aatot. 72.] To the Reverend Dr. Thomas Patten, 225 

The papers which have been sent for my perusal I am ready 
to inspect, if you judge my inspection necessary or useful : but 
indeed, I do not ; for what advantage can arise from it ? A 
Dictionary consists of independent parts, and therefore one page 
is not much a specimen of the rest. It does not occur to me 
that I can give any assistance to the Author, and for my own 
interest I resign it into your hands, and do not suppose that I 
shall ever see my name with regret where you shall think it 
proper to be put. 

I think it, however, my duty to inform a writer who intends 
me so great an honour, that in my opinion he would have con- 
sulted his interest by dedicating his Work to some powerful 
and popular neighbour, who can give him more than a name. 
What will the world do but look on and laugh when one scholar 
dedicates to another ? 

If I had been consulted about this Lexicon of Antiquities 
while it was yet only a design, I should have recommended 
rather a division of Hebrew, Greek, and Roman particulars 
into three volumes, than a combination in one*. The 
Hebrew part, at least, I would have wished to separate, as it 
might be made a very popular book, of which the use might 
be extended from men of learning down to the English 
reader, and which might become a concomitant to the Family 
Bible. 

When works of a multifarious and extensive kind are under- 
taken in the country, the necessary books are not always known. 
I remember a very learned and ingenious Clergyman, of whom, 
when he had published Notes upon the Psalms, I enquired what 
was his opinion of Hammond's Commentary, and was answered, 
that he had never heard of it'. As this gentleman has the 
opportunity of consulting you, it needs not be supposed that he 
has not heard of all the proper books ; but unless he is near 



t < 



I remember,' writes Dean Percy, ' Johnson in his character of the 
* Dr. Johnson once told me he had Rev. Zachariah Mudgc mentions that 
intended in an early part of his life divine's Notes upon the Psaims, Life^ 
to compose a Dictionary of English iv. 77. Even Lucy Porter read H am- 
or British Antiquities.* Letters of mond's Commentary on the Psalms. 
Dr, Percy to George Paton^ p. 73. Ante^ i. 357« 

VOL. II. some 



226 To Mrs. Thrale. [a.d. 1781. 

some Library, I know not how he could peruse them ; and if 
he is conscious that his supelkx is nimis angusta^^ it would 
be prudent to delay his publication till his deficiences may be 
supplied. 

It seems not very candid to hint any suspicions of imperfection 
in a Work which I have not seen, yet what I have said ought to 
be excused, since I • cannot but wish well to a learned man, 
who has elected me for the honour of a Dedication, and to whom 
I am indebted for a correspondence so valuable as yours. And 
I beg that I may not lose any part of his kindness, which I con- 
sider with respectful gratitude. Of you, dear Sir, I entreat that 
you will never again forget for so long a time, 

Your most humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 

Bolt-court, Fleet-street. 
Sept. 24, 1 78 1. 

740. 

To Mauritius Lowe. Oct. 15, 1781. 

In one of Messrs. Sotheby and Company's Auction Catalogues, the 
reference to which I have mislaid. Lot. 157 is a Letter from Dr. Johnson 
to Mr. Lowe, dated Oct. 15, 1781. 

* Has put Mr. Kearsley's note into the hands of Mr. Allen, to whom 
he owes rent.* 

Mr. Lowe was, I suppose, the needy Mauritius Lowe, ante^ ii. 203, 
Kearsley was a bookseller in Fleet Street. Life^ i. 214. Nichols writing 
of his shop describes it as * the political storehouse of George Kearsley.' 
Lit. Hist V. 428. Edmund Allen, the printer, was Johnson's landlord 
and next neighbour in Bolt Court. Life^ iii. 141. 



741. 

To Mrs. Thrale^ 
Dear Madam, Oxford, Oct. 17, 178 1. 

On Monday evening arrived at the Angel Inn at 

» Johnson has quoted before (ante, ' res angusta domi.' Satires, iii. 
i. 64) *curta supellex' from Per- 165. 
sius, Satires, iv. 52. Juvenal has ' Piozzi Letters, 11.20$. 

Oxford, 



Aetat. 72.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



227 



Oxford S Mr. Johnson and Mr. Barber ', without any sinister 
accident. 

I am here ; but why am I here ? On my way to Lichfield, 
where I believe Mrs. Aston will be glad to see me. We have 
known each other long, and, by consequence, are both old ; and 
she is paralytick ; and if I do not see her soon, I may see her 
no more in this world ^. To make a visit on such considerations 
is to go on a melancholy errand. But such is the course of life. 

This place is very empty, but there are more here whom I 
know, than I could have expected*. Young Burke ^ has just 
been with me, and I have dined to day with Dr. Adams ^ who 



' The Angel Inn stood in the High 
Street, but was pulled down to make 
way for the New Schools. Twenty- 
seven years before Johnson's visit, 
Pitt and a party of his friends were 
at the window of the Inn, when a 
lady in the company sang God save 
great George our King, * The chorus 
was re-echoed by a set of young lads 
drinking at a college over the way 
[Queen's], but with additions of rank 
treason.' Pitt described the scene to 
the House of Commons. Walpole's 
George I ly ed. 1 822, i. 3 58. Johnson and 
Boswell, in March, 1776, passed two 
evenings in the Angel ' in easy and 
familiar conversation.' Life^ ii. 440, 9. 

' Johnson's black servant, Frank 
Barber. 

^ He made the following record in 
his Diary :— * Sunday, October 14, 
1 78 1 (properly Monday morning). I 
am this day about to go by Osdbrd 
and Birmingham to Lichfield and 
Ashbourne. The motives of my jour- 
ney I hardly know. I omitted it last 
year, and am not willing to miss it 
again. Mrs. Aston will be glad, I 
think, to see me. We are both old, 
and if I put off my visit I may see 
her no more ; perhaps she wishes 
for another interview. She is a very 
good woman. 

Hector is likewise an old friend. 



the only companion of my childhood 
that passed through the school with 
me. We have always loved one 
another. Perhaps we may be made 
better by some serious conversation, of 
which however I have no distinct hope. 

At Lichfield, my native piace, I 
hope to show a good example by 
frequent attendance on public wor- 
ship. [Perhaps by way of penance for 
his habit of playing truant from 
church in his boyhood. Life^ i. 67.] 

At Ashbourne I hope to talk seri- 
ously with Taylor.' Pr, and Med. 
p. 201. 

* By October 17 one would have 
expected the University to be full. 
A young student of Queen's writing 
on October 7, 1779, says: — *The 
University is yet thin and desolate. 
As the term does not begin till the 
tenth, few of the absentees will think 
of returning tiU the last minute.' 
Letters of Radcliffe and J antes ^ p. 
85. See ante^ i. 361, n. i. 

^ Edmund Burke's only son, of 
whom the fond father is reported to 
have said : — * How extraordinary it 
is that I, and Lord Chatham, and 
Lord Holland, should each have a son 
so superior to ourselves.' Miss Haw- 
kins's Memoirs^ i. 304. Lord Hol- 
land's son was Charles James Fox. 

^ Master of Pembroke College. 



Q2 



seems 



228 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A.D. 1781. 



seems fond of me. But I have not been very well. I hope 
I am not ill by sympathy, and that you are making haste to 
recover your plumpness' and your complexion. I left you 
skinny and lean. 

To-morrow, if I can, I shall go forward*, and when I see 
Lichfield I shall write again. 

Mr. Parker, the bookseller ^, sends his respects to you : I send 
mine to the young ladies. I am, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 



742. 

To Mrs. THRALE^ 

Dear Madam, Lichfield, Oct. 20, 1781. 

I wrote from Oxford, where I staid two days; on 
Thursday I went to Birmingham, and was told by Hector that 
I should not be well so soon as I expected ; but that well I 
should be ^ Mrs. Careless * took me under her care, and told 
me when I had tea enough. On Friday I came hither, and have 
escaped the post-chaises all the way. Every body here is as 
kind as I expected, I think Lucy "^ is kinder than ever. I am 
very well. Now we are both valetudinary, we shall have some- 
thing to write about. We can tell each other our complaints, 
and give reciprocal comfort and advice, as — not to eat too 
much — and — not to drink too little®, and we may now and 
then add a few strictures of reproof : and so we may write and 
write till we can find another subject. Pray make my com- 
pliments to all the ladies, great and little. 

I am, &c., 

Sam : Johnson. 



' Boswell describes Mrs. Thrale 
as 'short, plump, and brisk.' U/ey 
i. 494. 

'His 'power of departure de- 
pended upon accidental vacancies in 
passing coaches,' unless he would go 
to the expense of a post-chaise. Ante, 
i. 325. 

' For a description of Johnson's 
' old friend, Sack. Parker,' see Life, 



iv. 308. Mrs. Thrale had probably^ 
seen him when in September, 1774, 
she * wandered about the University.' 
lb, V. 459. 

* Piozzi Letters, ii. 205. 

* Posty p. 236. 

* Hector's sister, Johnson's first 
love. Ante, i. 41, /i. 2. 

'His step-daughter, Lucy Porter. 
' Ante, L 223, 368, 408. 

To 



Aatot. 72.] 



To Mrs. Thrale, 



229 



748. 

To Mrs. Thrale*. 
Dear Madam, Lichfield, Oct 23, 1781. 

I had both your letters, and very little good news in cither 
of them. The diminution of the estate, though unpleasing and 
unexpected, must be borne, because it cannot be helped ; but 
I do not apprehend why the other part of your income should 
fall short. I understood that you were to have ;f 1,500 yearly 
from the money arising from the sale, and that your claim was 
first 

I sincerely applaud your resolution not to run out ', and wish 
you always to save something, for that which is saved may be 
spent at will, and the advantages arc very many of saving^ 
some money loose and unappropriated. If your ammunition 
is always ready, you may shoot advantage as it starts, or 
pleasure as it flies. Resolve therefore never to want money *. 

The Gravedo ^ is not removed, nor does it increase. My 
nights have commonly been bad. Mrs. Aston is much as I 
left her, without any new symptoms ; but, between time and 
palsy, wearing away. Mrs. Gastrel is brisk and lively. 

Burney told me that she was to go, but you will have my 
dear Quecney; tell her that I do not forget her, and that I 
hope she remembers me. Against our meeting we will both 



' Piozzi Letters^ ii. 206. 

' Johnson in his Dictionary quotes 
from Swift : — 
'And had her stock been less, no 
doubt, 

She must have long ago run out.' 

' Johnson, I conjecture, wrote 
, having. 

* * Resolve never to be poor.' Life^ 
iv. 163. 

' The following note I owe to the 
kindness of Dr. Norman Moore. 
' Gravedo is commonly used as a 
synonym for catarrh and for coryza. 
Catarrh in its widest sense includes 
general rheumatic pains. I think 
that Dr. Johnson's meaning may be 



interpreted through one of his 
physicians. Dr. Heberden, and the 
term gravedo taken to mean a dis- 
order with "cold in the head" ac- 
companied by pains in the limbs. 

* Heberden says :— " Necessarium 
est OS et fauces et nares atque oculos 
assidue madere ; quapropter humor 
manat de quibusdam glandulis, et 
membranis ; qui si modum naturalem 
excedat, dicitur destillatio gravedo 
vel catarrhus." He had known such 
an habitual gravedo followed by 
palsy, and by asthma. Both symp- 
toms to some extent formed part of 
Dr. Johnson's iUness.' See posty 
Letter of February 17, 1782. 

make 



230 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A.D. 1781. 



make good resolutions, which on my side, I hope to keep ; but 
such hopes are very deceitful. I would not willingly think the 
same of all hopes, and particularly should be loath to suspect 
of deceit, my hope of being always, 

Dearest Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

744. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 

Dearest dear Lady, [Lichfield], Oct. 27, 1781. 

Your Oxford letter followed me hither, with Lichfield put 
upon the direction in the place of Oxford, and was received at 
the same time as the letter written next after it. All is there- 
fore well. 

Queeney is a naughty captious girl, that will not write because 
I did not remember to ask her. Pray tell her that I ask her 
now, and that I depend upon her for the history of her own time. 

Poor Lucy's illness has left her very deaf, and, I think, very 
inarticulate. I can scarcely make her understand me, and she 
can hardly make me understand her. So here are merry doings *. 
But she seems to like me better than she did. She eats very 
little, but does not fall away. 

Mrs. Cobb and Peter Garrick are as you left them. Garrick's 
legatees at this place are very angry that they receive nothing ^. 
Things are not quite right, though we are so far from London *. 



* Piozzi Letters^ ii. 208. 

■ Aniey ii. 116. 

' Garrick left large legacies to his 
two brothers, sister, two nephews and 
a niece, ' to be paid,' he said, ' out of 
the residue of my personal estate 
which shall remain after paying the 
legacies [of ;£6,ooo] to my wife, and 
securing the annuities as aforesaid. 
[She was to have an annuity of 
;^i,5oo if she lived in England, and 
oi £\fiiQo if she resided in Scotland, 
Ireland, or beyond sea.] If there 
shall not be sufficient to pay all the 
legacies, the legacies shall abate in 



proportion to their legacies, and wait 
until the death of my wife, &c.* 
Davies*s Life of Garrick^ ii. 427. 
She perhaps outlived them all, for 
she survived her husband 43 years. 
See post^ Letter of April 30, 1782, 
where Johnson writes : — * Poor 
Garrick's funeral expenses arc yet 
unpaid, though the undertaker is 
broken.' 
* * Resolved at length from vice 

and London far 
To breathe in distant fields a 

purer air.' 

Johnson's London^ 1. 5. 
Mrs. Aston 



Aetat.72.] To Mrs. Tkralc. 231 

Mrs. Aston is just as I left her. She walks no worse ; but I 
am afraid speaks less distinctly as to her utterance. Her mind 
is untouched. She eats too little, and wears away. The ex- 
tenuation ' is her only bad symptom. She was glad to see me. 

That naughty girl Queeney, now she is in my head again, how 
could she think that I did not wish to hear from her, a dear 
sweet. — But he must suffer who can love. 

All here is gloomy; a faint struggle with the tediousness of 
time ; a doleful confession of present misery, and the approach 
seen and felt of what is most dreaded and most shunned ^ But 
such is the lot of man. i am, dearest Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 
745. 

To Mrs. Thrale^ 

Dear Madam, Lichfield, Oct. 31, 1781. 

It almost enrages me to be suspected of forgetting the 
discovery of the papers relating to CummiQs's claim*. These 
papers we must grant the liberty of using, because the law will 
not suffer us to deny them. We may be summoned to declare 
what we know, and what we know is in those papers. When 
the evidence appears, • • » » will be directed by her lawyers to 
submit in quiet. I suppose it will be proper to give at first only 
a transcript. 

Your income, diminished as it is, you may, without any painful 
frugality, make sufficient. I wish your health were as much in 
your power, and the effects of abstinence were as certain as those 
of parsimony. Of your regimen I do not think with much ap- 
probation ; it is only palliative, and crops the disease, but does 
not eradicate it. I wish you had at the beginning digested full 
meals in a warm room, and excited the humour to exhaust its 
power upon the surface. This, I believe, must be done at last. 

' Ante, ii. 1 59, n, 4. the thoughts of it." ' Lifcy ii. 93. 

» * BoswELL. ** Is not the fear ' Piozzi Letters^ ii. 210. 

of death natural to man ? " John- * Mrs. Cumins is mentioned ante^ 

SON. "So much so. Sir, that the ii. 181, and Mrs. Cumyns further on 

whole of life is but keeping away in the present letter. 

Miss Seward 



232 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A.D. 1781. 



Miss Seward has been enquiring after Susan Thrale, of whom 
she had heard so much from Mrs. Cumyns, as excites her cu- 
riosity. If my little dear Perversity continues to be cross, Susy * 
may be my girl too; but I had rather have them both. If 
Queeney does not write soon she shall have a very reprehensory * 
letter. 

I have here but a dull scene. Poor Lucy's health is very much 
broken. She takes very little of either food or exercise, and her 
hearing is very dull, and her utterance confused; but she will 
have Watts' s Improvement of the Mind^. Her mental powers 
are not impaired, and her social virtues seem to increase. She 
never was so civil to me before. 

Mrs. Aston is not, that I perceive, worse than when I left her ; 
but she eats too little, and is somewhat emaciated. She likewise 
is glad to see me, and I am glad that I have come. 

There is little of the sunshine of life, and my own health does 
not gladden me. But to scatter the gloom — I went last night to 
the ball *, where, you know, I can be happy even without you. 
On the ball which was very gay, I looked awhile, and went 
^way. I am, dear Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

746. 
To Mrs. Thrale ^ 

Dearest Madam, Lichfield, Nov. 3, 1781. 

You very kindly remind me of the dear home which I have 



' See antey ii. 44, where he 
writes : — * I was always a Susy when 
nobody else was a Susy.' 

" Reprehensory is not in Johnson's 
Dictionary, 

^ No doubt she had been reading 
in Johnson's Life of Watts the 
passage where he says : — * Few 
books have been perused by me 
with greater pleasure than his Im- 
provement of the MindJ Works, 
viii. 385. 



* Miss Bumey recorded the follow- 
ing year at Brighton : — * October 28, 
1782. Dr. Johnson accompanied us 
to a ball, to the universal amazement 
of all who saw him there ; but he 
said he had found it so dull being 
quite alone the preceding evening, 
that he determined upon going with 
us; "for,** said he, "it cannot be 
worse than being alone."' Mme. 
D'Arblay's Diary, ii. 161. 

* Piozzi Letters, ii. 219. 

left ; 



Aetat.72.] To Mrs. Tkralc. 233 

left ' ; but I need none of your aids to recollection, for I am here 
gasping for breath, and yet better than those whom I came to 
visit. Mrs. Aston has been for three years a paralytic crawler ; 
but, I think, with her mind unimpaired. She seems to me such 
as I left her ; but she now eats little, and is therefore much ema- 
ciated. Her sister thinks her^ and she thinks herself, passing fast 
away. 

Lucy has had since my last visit a dreadful illness, from which 
her physicians declared themselves hopeless of recovering her, 
and which has shaken the general fabrick, and weakened the 
powers of life. She is unable or unwilling to move, and is never 
likely to have more of either strength or spirit*. 

I am so visibly disordered, that a medical man, who only saw 
me at church, sent me some pills. To those whom I love here 
I can give no help, and from those that love me none can I re- 
ceive. Do you think that I need to be reminded of home and you ? 

The time of the year is not very favourable to excursions. I 
thought myself above assistance or obstruction from the seasons ^ ; 
but find the autumnal blast sharp and nipping, and the fading 
world an uncomfortable prospect. Yet I may say with Milton, 
that I do not abate much of heart or hope *. To what I have 
done I do not despair of adding something, but what it shall be 
I know not. I am, Madam, 

Most affectionately yours, 

Sam : Johnson. 

747. 

To Mrs. THRALE^ 
Dear Madam, Ashbourne, Nov. 10, 1781. 

Yesterday I came to Ashbourne, and last night I had very 

' * Come home,' she had written, seasons see Ufe^ i. 332, and for his 

' for 'tis dull living without you.' discovery that he had himself become 

Piozzi Letters y ii. 216. For his use dependent upon the weather, ib, iv. 

of the term home see ante, i. 129. 353, 360. 

* She lived till January, 1786. * 'nor bate a jot 

Miss Seward's Letters^ i. 109. Of heart or hope.' 

^ For Johnson's belief that a man MiLTON. Sonnet^ No. xxii. 

could make himself superior to the ' Piozzi Letters ^ ii. 221. 

little 



234 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A.D. 1781. 



little rest. Dr. Taylor lives on milk, and grows every day better, 
and is not wholly without hope. Every body enquires after you 
and Queeney; but whatever Burney may think of the celerity of 
fame, the name of Evelina had never been heard at Lichfield till 
I brought it. I am afraid my dear townsmen will be mentioned 
in future days as the last part of this nation that was civilised '. 
But the days of darkness are soon to be at an end ; the reading 
society ordered it to be procured this week. 

Since I came into this quarter of the earth I have had a very 
sorry time, and I hope to be better when I come back. The 
little paddock and plantations here are very bleak. The Bishop 
of Chester is here now with his father-in-law'; he sent us a 
message last night, and I intend to visit him. 

Most of your Ashbourne friends are well. Mr. Kennedy's 
daughter has married a shoemaker, and he lives with them, and 
has left his parsonage. I am, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

748. 

To Mrs. Thrale ^ 
Dear Madam, Ashbourne, Nov. 12, 1781. 

I have a mind to look on Queeney as my own dear girl ; 
and if I set her a bad example, I ought to counteract it by good 
precepts ; and he that knows the consequences of any fault is 
best qualified to tell them. I have through my whole progress 
of authorship honestly endeavoured to teach the right, though I 
have not been sufficiently diligent to practise it, and have offered 



' Evelina had been published 
nearly four years. Nevertheless 
Johnson had boasted to Boswell that 
the inhabitants of Lichfield were 
* the genteelest in proportion to their 
wealth, and spoke the purest English.' 
JUfey ii. 463. In their ignorance of 
Evelina they were not behind some 
of the great people in London. See 
Mme. D*Arblay's Diary ^ ii. 121. 

' BeilbyPorteus,afterwards Bishop 
of London. Life^ iii. 279. He had 



married the daughter of 'Brian 
Hodgson, Esq., of Ashbourne.' 
Porteus's Works^eA, 1811, i. 17. In 
a curious correspondence in Notes 
and Queries (7th S. v. 241, 294, 330, 
494) it is shown that Brian Hodg- 
son, before he retired to Ashbourne, 
had kept the George Inn at Stam- 
ford. By mistake in this corre- 
spondence Ashbourne is stated to be 
in Kent. 
' Piozzi Letters^ ii. 222. 

mankind 



Aetat. 72.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



235 



mankind my opinion as a rule, but never professed my behaviour 
as an example '. 

I shall be very sorry to lose Mr. ; but why should 

he so certainly die ? • » » • needed not have died if he had 

tried to live. If Mr. will drink a great deal of water, the 

acrimony that corrodes his bowels will be diluted, if the cause 
be only acrimony; but I suspect dysenteries to be produced by 
animalcula, which I know not how to kill. 

If the medical man did me good, it was by his benevolence ; 
by his pills I never mended ^ I am, however, rather better than 
I was. 

Dear Mrs. ^, she has the courage becoming an admiral's 

lady, but courage is no virtue in her cause. 

I have been at Lichfield persecuted with solicitations to read 
a poem ; but I sent the authour word, that I would never review 
the work of an anonymous authour ; for why should I put my 
name in the power of one who will not trust me with his own. 
With this answer Lucy was satisfied, and I think it may satisfy 
all whom it may concern *. 



' Lady Macleod (speaking of 
Cheync's book on the gout) 'ob- 
jected that the author does not 
practise what he teaches. Johnson. 
'' I cannot help that, madam. That 
does not make his book the worse. 
People are influenced more by what 
a man says, if his practice is suitable 
to it, — because they are blockheads. 
The more intellectual people are, the 
readier will they attend to what a 
man tells them. If it is just, they 
will follow it, be his practice what it 
will. No man practises so well as he 
writes. I have, all my life long, been 
lying till noon, yet I tell all young 
men, and tell them with great 
sincerity, that nobody who does not 
rise early will ever do any good.'*' 
Ltfe^ V. 210. 

' Anie^ ii. 233. 

' Mrs. Byron. Ante^ ii. 121, «. 2. 
Lord Byron in his Epistle to Augusta 



compares himself to his grandfather, 
the admiral : — ' He had no rest at 
sea, nor I on shore.' In a note it is 
stated that * Admiral Byron was re- 
markable for never making a voyage 
without a tempest. He was known 
to the sailors by the facetious name 
of " Foul-weather Jack." ' Byron's 
Works J ed. 1854, iv. 202. 

* Miss Seward says : — * I cannot 
imagine what anonymous poem it 
could be.' Letters^ ii. 44. I think it 
not unlikely that it was Erasmus 
Darwin's Loves of the Plants^ which 
was published anonymously in 1789. 
Darwin states in the Advertisement 
that ' he has withheld it many years 
from the press, hoping to have 
rendered it more worthy the accept- 
ance of the public' He had lived at 
Lichfleld till some time in this year. 
C. Darwin's Life 0/ Erasmus Danvin, 
p. 27. Edgeworth says that parts of 

If 



236 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A.D. 1781. 



If C y ' did nothing for life but add weight to its burden, 

and darkness to its gloom, he is kindest to those from whom he 
is furthest. I hope, when I come, not to advance perhaps your 
pleasures, though even of that I shall be unwilling to despair ; 
but at least not to increase your inconveniencies, which would 
be a very unsuitable return for all the kindness that you have 
shewn to, Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

749. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 
Dearest Madam, Ashbourne, Nov. 14, 1781. 

Here is Doctor Taylor, by a resolute adherence to bread 
and milk, with a better appearance of health than he has had for 
a long time past^; and here am I, living very temperately, but 
with very little amendment. But the balance is not perhaps 
very unequal : he has no pleasure like that which I receive from 
the kind importunity with which you invite me to return. There 
is no danger of very long delay. There is nothing in this part of 
the world that can counteract your attraction. 

The hurt in my leg has grown well slowly, according to 
Hector's prognostick ^ and seems now to be almost healed : but 
my nights arc very restless, and the days are therefore heavy, 
and I have not your conversation to cheer them. 

I am willing however to hear that there is happiness in the 



the poem were shown from time 
to time to his intimate acquaint- 
ance. Memoirs of Edgeworih, p. 
398. Perhaps it was Darwin who 
sent Johnson the pills. Ante, ii. 

233- 
Johnson does not use to review in 

the modem sense. He defines it 

as * to sur\'ey ; to overlook ; to 

examine.* Neither does he g^ve a 

definition of the substantive review, 

in its sense of *a periodical with 

critical examinations of books.' 

' Crutchley. Anteyil2ig,n,i, Miss 

Bumey, writing in September of this 



year, describes him as a man of ' a 
cold and splenetic turn,' and says 
that * he has now left Streatham 
without much intention to frequently 
revisit it.' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, 
ii. 105. Mrs. Thrale, writing on the 
same day as Johnson, says that 
Crutchley had left them on Monday 
(the 6th). lb, p. 109. 

' Piozzi Letters, ii. 224. 

^ Dr. Taylor lived on a milk diet, 
which gave him a very disagree- 



able complexion.' 
Memoirs, i. 164. 
^ Ante, ii. 228. 



Miss Hawkins's 



world. 



Aetat. 72.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



m 



world, and delight to think on the pleasure diffused among the 
Burneys. I question if any ship upon the ocean goes out attended 
with more good wishes than that which carries the fate of Bumey ^ 
I love all of that breed whom I can be said to know, and one or 
two whom I hardly know I love upon credit, and love them be- 
cause they love each other. Of this consanguineous unanimity 
I have had never much experience"; but it appears to me one 
of the great lenitives of life ; but it has this deficience, that it is 
never found when distress is mutual — He that has less than 
enough for himself has nothing to spare, and as every man feels 
only his own necessities, he is apt to think those of others less 



' Mrs. Thrale had written to John- 
son in a letter she dates November 
2 : — * Captain Bumey has got a fifty- 
gun ship, and we are all so rejoiced.' 
Piozzi Letters y ii. 218. Miss Bumey 
had written to her on November 4, 
in a letter assigned in her Diary to 
1780, but evidently written in 1781 : — 
*We had just done tea on Friday, 
and were sitting down to cards, when 
we were surprised by an express 
from London, and it brought a 
" Whereas we think fit," from the 
Admiralty, to appoint Captain 
Bumey to the command of the 
Latona, during the absence of the 
Hon. Captain Conway. This is one 
of the best frigates in the navy, of 
thirty-eight guns. Jem was almost 
frantic with ecstacy of joy ; he sang, 
laughed, drank to his own success, 
and danced about the room with 
Miss Kitty till he put her quite out of 
breath. His hope is to get out im- 
mediately, and have a bmsh with 
some of the Dons, Monsieurs, or 
Mynheers. [We were at war with 
Spain, France, Holland, and the 
United States].* Mme. D'Arblay's 
Diary y i. 431. Mrs. Thrale in a letter 
dated November 12 in the Diary (ii. 
109) quotes, or rather misquotes, 
Johnson's letter of November 14. 
Part of what he had written appears 



as her own reflection. What with 
the original inaccuracy of Miss 
Bumey and Mrs. Thrale, and the 
superadded inaccuracy of Mme. 
D*Arblay's editor and of Mrs. Piozzi 
as her own editor, it is not easy 
through their pages to track the 
truth. 

For Johnson's love of the Buraeys 
see antCy ii. 145, n, \. In the begin- 
ning of 1783, talking to Miss Bumey 
of the Captain, he said: — ' I should be 
glad to see him if he were not your 
brother ; but were he a dog, a cat, a 
rat, a frog, and belonged to you, I 
must needs be glad to see him.' 
Mme. D'Arblay's Diary ^ ii. 233. 

' ' I who have no sisters nor 
brothers look with some degree of 
innocent envy on those who may be 
said to be bom to friends.' Z^^, 
i. 324. See also post^ Letter of May 
I, 1783. Nevertheless he had not 
got on well with his only brother, 
who complained that ' he had scarcely 
used him with common civility.' Life^ 
i. 90, ff. 3. Carlyle on February 3, 
1835, wrote to Emerson, who had 
lately lost a brother :— * Had one no 
brother one could hardly understand 
what it was to have a Friend ; they 
are the Friends whom Nature chose 
for us.' Corres, of Carlyle and 
Emersofty i. 37. 

pressing. 



238 To Mrs. Thrale. i;a.d.i78i. 



pressing, and to accuse them of with-holding what in truth they 

cannot give. He that has his foot firm upon dry ground may 

pluck another out of the water ; but of those that are all afloat, 

none has any care but for himself ^ 

We do not hear that the deanery is yet given away, and, though 

nothing is said, I believe much is still thought about it ^ Hope 

travels through ^ 

I am, dearest of all dear ladies, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

760. 

To Mrs. THRALK^ 

Dear Madam, Ashbourne, Nov. 34, 1 78 1. 

I shall leave this place about the banning of next week, 
and shall leave every place as fast as I decently can, till I get 
back to you, whose kindness is one of my great comforts. I am 
not well, but have a mind every now and then to think myself 
better, and I now hope to be better under your care. 

It was time to send Kam to another master ; but I am glad 
that before he went he beat Hector, for he has really the appear- 
ance of a superior species to an animal whose whole power is 
in his legs, and that against the most defenceless of all the in- 
habitants of the earth. 

Dr. Taylor really grows well, and directs his compliments to 
be sent. I hope Mr. Perkins will be well too ^. 

But why do you tell me nothing of your own health ? Perhaps 
since the fatal pinch of snuff I may have no care about it. I am 
glad that you have returned to your meat, for I never expected 
that abstinence would do you good. 

Piozzi, I find, is coming in spite of Miss Harriet's prediction, 
or second sight, and when he comes and / come, you will have 
two about you that love you ; and I question if either of us 

' AnUi i. I4i« ' * Hope travels through, nor quits 

" See ante^ ii. 108, for Taylor's us when we die.* 

longings for another Deanery. The PoPE. Essay on Man^ ii. 273. 

Deanery of Lincoln was filled up on * Piozzi Letters^ ii. 226. 

December 33. Ann. Reg,^ 1781, i. 309. ^ Sec JJfe^ iv. 153. 

heartily 



Aetat. 72.] 



To Edmund Allen. 



239 



heartily care how few more you have *. But how many soever 
they may be, I hope you keep your kindness for me, and I have 
a great mind to have Queeney's kindness too. 

Frank's wife ' has brought him a wench ; but I cannot yet get 
intelligence of her colour, and therefore have never told him how 
much depends upon it. 

The weather here is chill, and the air damp. I have been only 
once at the waterfall, which I found doing as it used to do, and 
came away. I had not you nor Queeney with me. 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

761. 

To Edmund Allen 3, 

Bolt Court. 
Dear Sir, Ashboume, Nov. 26, 1781. 

I am weary enough of the country to think of Bolt Court, 
and purpose to leave Ashboume, where I now am, in a day or 
two, and to make my way through Lichfield, Birmingham, and 
Oxford, with what expedition I decently can, and then we will 
have a row^ and a dinner, and now and then a dish of tea 
together. 



' Mrs. Thrale had written :— * In- 
stead of trying the Sortes Virgilianie 
\ante^ ii. 169, n, a] for our absent 
friends, we agreed after dinner to-day 
to ask little Harriet what they were 
doing now who used to be our common 
guests at Streatham. " Dr. Johnson " 
(says she) " is very rich and wise, Sir 
Philip is drown'd in the water — and 
Mr. Piozzi is very sick and lame, 
poor man ! " What a curious way of 
deciding ! all in her little soft voice.' 
Piozzi Letters^ ii. 217. Baretti has 
the following note on the passage in 

Johnson's letter:—* Impudent b ! 

How could she venture upon forging 
this paragraph ! Johnson to put 
himself abreast with such an ignorant 
dog as Piozzi ! ' 

" The wife of his black servant, 
Francis Barber. Ldfe^ i. 237. 



' First published in Croker*s Bos- 
well^ page 699. * Communicated to 
me by Mr. P. Cunningham,' writes Mr. 
Croker, * who found also in a pocket- 
book of Allen's, memoranda of John- 
son's departure and return. " October 
15, 1 78 1, Dr, Johnson set out about 
9 A.M. to Oxford^ Lichfield^ and Ash- 
bourneP ^^ December 11, 1781, Dr, 
Johnson returned from Derbyshire^* ' 

Edmund Allen was Johnson's land- 
lord and next neighbour in Bolt 
Court LifCy iii. 141. 

^ I do not understand what this 
means. Johnson defines the sub- 
stantive row as * a rank or file ; a 
number of things ranged in a line.' 
He does not recognise the sense of 
*an excursion in a rowing-boat.' 
Neither was it likely that in his 
weak health he would go on the 

I doubt 



Ts J/^ Tk 



I d9iDC rKC 
t3> InrihfHr.. 



C I 2l7ir 

anmcrr 



«o mi* 2f ^ f 



TTiiL-n 




3k3C jnTTTirffT TTHITT ^'ir.-rj^ rrym^i* 



crLi=. 



lumn i tr 



: ^re^ec! 



Td Mxc. TSSAIZ 



I 



GC Mrs. AdfiooL Ib:!9ea:c 



Be Cocscaas 



i:8cr "iirttyw- "nmjjj' 



iirse 



« X 



M- 



.^« 



vc I crcji arc s 



znj. trm:^ Tijjcr. I srcrrtijr rrisV -vas ^uiii tr see 

bet ] bice bscze "irZ n^Js aricn.i^ ir iL rrv 3;c 








a£3t TL 



TT^sffne. e 



-^i 



icr 



Sr?ix:5:iJL r^j^xcjt 



- 3t 



iT* TSL. UiTlj^'J "^iJT^j^' ' 



• A 






Aeut72.] To John Nichols, 241 

you will find no great accession to your library, for the writer 

seems to understand very little English. When we meet we can 

compare some passages. Pray contrive a multitude of good 

things for us to do when we meet. Something that may hold 

all together \ though if any thing makes me love you more, it is 

going from you. 

I am, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

r 

768. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 
Dear Madam, Birmingham, Dec 8, 1 781. 

I am come to this place on my way to London and to 
Streatham. I hope to be in London on Tuesday or Wednesday, 
and at Streatham on Thursday, by your kind conveyance. I 
shall have nothing to relate either wonderful or delightful. But 
remember that you sent me away, and turned me out into the 
world, and you must take the chance of finding me better or 
worse. This you may know at present, that my affection for you 
is not diminished, and my expectation from you is encreased. 
Do not n^lect me, nor relinquish me '. Nobody will ever love 
you better or honour you more than. 

Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

764. 

To John Nichols ^ 

Mr. Johnson being much out of order sent in search of the 
book, but it is not found. He will, if he is better, look him- 
self diligently to-morrow He thanks Mr. Nichols for all his 
favours. 



To Mr. Nicols. 



Dr. [December] 26, [1781]. 



' Piozzi Letters^ ii. 230. affection for him may lessen. 

^ Johnson's letters henceforth often ^ First published in the Gentle^ 
contain expressions of fear that her matCs Magazine for 1785, page il. 

VOL. II. R To 



242 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A.D. 1782. 



766. 



To Mauritius Lowe. 



Jan. I, 1782. 



In one of Messrs. Sotheby's Auction Catalogues, the reference to 
which I have mislaid, Lot 156 is a Letter of Johnson to Mr. Lowe 
dated Jan. i, 1782. 

766. 

To James Boswell. 

[London], January 5, 1782. Published in the Life^ iv. 136. 

767. 

To Dr. Lawrence. 
[London], January 17, 1782. Published in the Life^ iv. 137. 

768. 

_ To Mrs. Thrale'. 

Dearest Lady, January 28, 1782. 

I was blooded on Saturday ; I think, not copiously enough, 
but the Doctor would permit no more. I have however his 
consent to bleed again to-day. Since I left you I have eaten 
very little, on Friday chiefly broath, on Saturday nothing but 
some bread in the morning, on Sunday nothing but some bread 
and three roasted apples. I try to get well and wish to see you ; 
but if I came, I should only cough and cough. Mr. Steevens ', 



' Piozzi Letters^ ii. 250. 

Mrs. Piozzi dates this letter June 
38, 1 78 1, but inserts it among those 
of June 1 782. It is clear that June is 
a mistake for January^ and 1781 for 
1782. Johnson mentions the consent 
of his Doctor * to bleed again ' on the 
day on which he wrote. He adds 
also : — * We are all three sick, and 
poor Levet is gone.' He wrote to 
Mrs. Strahan on February 4, 1782 : — 
* Of the four inmates [of my house] 
one has been suddenly snatched 
away; two are oppressed by very 
afflictive and dangerous illness ; and 
I tried yesterday to gain some relief 
by a third bleeding from a disorder 



which has for some time distressed 
me.* Life^ iv. 140. On July 8 he 
wrote to Dr. Taylor : — * I came back 
from Oxford in ten days, and was 
almost restored to health. . . . My 
cough is gone.* He went to Oxford 
in June. Post^ Letter of June 8. On 
June 28, therefore, he was in tolerable 
health. His sick companions were 
Mrs. Williams and Mrs. Desmoulins. 
* Mr. Steevens was George 
Steevens who helped him in a new 
edition of his Shakespeare, Life^ ii. 
115. * He passed,* says Boswell, 
' many a social hour with Dr. John- 
son during their long acquaintance.' 
lb. iv. 324. 

who 



Aetot.7a.] To Recorder Beatniffe. 243 



who is with me, says that my hearing is returned. We are here 
all three sick, and poor Levet is gone. 

Do not add to my other distresses any diminution of kindness 

' Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

769. 

To Mrs. Strahan. 
[London], February 4, 1782. Published in the Life^ iv. 140. 

760. 

To Recorder Beatniffe'. 

Sir, Bolt Court, Fleet Street, February 14, 1782. 

Robert Levett, with whom I have been connected by a 
friendship of many years, died lately at my house. His death 
was sudden, and no will has yet been found ; I therefore gave 
notice of his death in the papers, that an heir, if he has any, may 
appear. He has left very little ; but of that little his brother 
is doubtless heir, and your friend may be perhaps his brother. 
I have had another application from one who calls himself his 
brother ; and I suppose it is fit that the claimant should give 
some proofs of his relation. I would gladly know, from the 
gentleman that thinks himself R. Levett's brother. 

In what year, and in what parish, R. Levett was born ? 

Where or how was he educated ? 

■ First published in Croker's Bos- very low condition.' lb, p. 143. 

well^ page 701. Hawkins says that Johnson learnt, 

Levett had died suddenly on in reply to his enquiries, that Levett 

January 1 7 of this year. 'He was an was bom at Kirk Ella about five 

old and faithful friend,' Johnson miles from Hull. He had acquired 

recorded in his Diary. * I have some knowledge of Latin and had a 

known him from about '46.' LAfe^ propensity to learning. He had 

iv. 137. He wrote to Lucy Porter on tried more than one calling, and had 

March 19 : — * I have by advertising dabbled in physic. He had been in 

found poor Mr. Levett's brothers in France and Italy, and had attended 

Yorkshire, who will take the little he the hospitals in Paris. Hawkins's 

has left ; it is but little, yet it will be Johnson^ p. 396. See Life^ i. 343, 

welcome, for I believe they are of n. 3, for another account. 

R 2 What 



244 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A.D. 1782. 



What was his early course of life ? 

What were the marks of his person ; his stature ; the colour of 
his eyes*? 

Was he marked by the small-pox ? 

Had he any impediment in his speech ? 

What relations had he, and how many are now living ? 

His answer to these questions will show whether he 
knew him; and he may then proceed to show that he is his 
brother. 

He may be sure, that nothing shall be hastily wasted or re- 
moved. I have not looked into his boxes, but transferred that 
business to a gentleman in the neighbourhood, of character above 
suspicion. 

Sam: Johnson. 

To Mr. BeatnifTe, Recorder of Hull. 



761. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 

Dearest Lady, [Bolt Court], Feb. i6, 1782. 

I am better, but not yet well ; but hope springs eternal ^. 
As soon as I can think myself not troublesome, you may be 



sure of seeing me, for such a place to visit nobody ever had. 
Dearest Madam, do not think me worse than I am ; be sure at 
least, that whatever happens to me, I am with all the regard 
that admiration of excellence and gratitude for kindness can 

' Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 



* ' His person was middle-sized 
and^thin ; his visage swarthy, adust, 
and corrugated. When in dishabille 
he might have been mistaken for an 
alchemist, whose complexion had 
been hurt by the fumes of the crucible, 
and whose clothes had suffered from 
the sparks of the furnace.* Gentle- 
mofCs' Magazine^ 1785, p. 102. Haw- 



kins adds ' a dictum of Johnson re- 
specting him— that his external ap- 
pearance and behaviour were such 
that he disgusted the rich and terrified 
the poor.' Hawkins*s/iS7^«j(7«, p. 400. 
■ Piozzi Letters^ ii. 231. 
' * Hope springs eternal in the 
human breast.' 

Essay on Man, i. 95. 

To 



Aetat. 72.] 



To Mrs. Tkrale. 



245 



762. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 
Dear Madam, Feb. 17, 1783. 

Sure such letters would make any man well '. I will let 

them have their full operation upon me ; but whije I write I am 

not without a cough. I can however keep it quiet by diacodium, 

and am in hope that with all other disturbances it will go away, 

and permit me to enjoy the happiness of being, 

Madam, your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 



768. 

To Mrs. Thrale^ 
Dearest Madam, Bolt-court, Feb. 21, 1783. 

I certainly grow better. I lay this morning with such 
success, that I called before I rose for dry linen. I believe I 
have had a crisis. 

Last night called Sir Richard Jebb * ; and many people call or 
send : I am not neglected nor forgotten. But let me be always 
sure of your kindness. I hope to try again this week whether 
your house is yet so cold, for to be away from you, if I did not 
think our separation likely to be short, how could I endure ? 



' Piozzi Letters^ ii, 235. 

* Mrs. Piozzi inserts a letter of hers 
to him dated February 16 in which 
she says : — * I told Dr. Lawrence that 
the Gravedo [anfe, ii. 329, n, 5] of 
which you complain should be kept 
from increasing long in this case^ and 
as he is as good a grammarian as he 
is a physician I hope he will take the 
hint.* Piozzi Letters^ ii. 333. She 
wrote to Miss Bumey this same 
month that she had found Dr. 
Lawrence with Dr. Johnson : — * I put 
my nose into the old man's wig [Dr. 
Lawrence's], and shouted; but got 
none except melancholy answers — so 
melancholy that I was forced to 
crack jokes for fear of crying. '' He 



complains of a general grccvedo^ 
cries the Doctor ; '* but he speaks 
too good Latin for us." "Do you 
take care, at least, that it does not 
increase long,'* quoth L (The word 
graroedo makes gravedinis, and is 
therefore said to increase long in the 
genitive case.) I thought this a good, 
stupid, scholarlike pun, and Johnson 
seemed to like that Lawrence was 
pleased.' Mme. D'Arbla/s Diary, 
ii. 123. Johnson, it is clear, heard 
the pun ; it seems likely therefore 
that her letter to him was a fabrica- 
tion, for she would not have told him 
what he had so lately heard from her. 

' Piozzi Letters, ii. 235. 

^ The physician. Ante, ii. 148. 

You 



246 



To Mrs. Thrale, 



[A.D. 1782. 



You are a dear dear lady, and your kind attention is a great part 

of what life affords to, , . , 

Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

764. 

To Edmond Malone. 
[London], February 27, 1782. Published in the Life, iv. 141. 

766. 

To Mrs. Porter. 
London, March 2, 1782. Published in the Life, iv. 142. 

766. 

To Edmond Malone. 

[London], March 7, 1782. Published in the Life, iv. 141. 
In Messrs. Sotheby and Co.'s Auction Catalogue of May 10, 1875, 
the date is given as March 2. The Letter (Lot 98) was sold for jQ6 6s. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 

Dearest of all dear Ladies, March 14, 1782. 

That Povilleri should write these verses is impossible. I 
am angry at Sastres '. 

Seven ounces I Why I sent a letter to Dr. Lawrence, who is 
ten times more tifnorsome than is your Jebb, and he came and 
stood by while one vein was opened with too small an orifice, 
and bled eight ounces and stopped. Then another vein was 
opened, which ran eight more. And here am I sixteen ounces 
lighter, for I have had no dinner \ 



* Piozzi Letters, ii. 236. 

' An Italian master. See post. 
Letter of August 21, 1784. 

' Johnson recorded in his Diary 
on March 18 : — 'Having been from 
the middle of January distressed by 
a cold which made my respiration 
very laborious, and from which I 
was but little relieved by being 



blooded three times ; having tried to 
ease the oppression of my breast by 
frequent opiates, which kept me 
waking in the night and drowsy the 
next day, and subjected me to the 
tyranny of vain imaginations ; having 
to all this added frequent catharticks, 
sometimes with mercury, I at last 
persuaded Dr. Lawrence on Thurs- 

I think 



Aetat. 72.] To the Reverend Dr. Taylor. 247 



I think the loss of blood has done no harm ; whether it has 
done good, time will tell. I am glad that I do not sink without 

resistance*. t j t^/t j 

I am, dear Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

768. 
To Mrs. Porter. 
Bolt Court, March 19, 1782. Published in the Z^, iv. 142. 

769. 

To Mrs. Aston. 

London, March 19, 1782. 
On March 19, Johnson recorded in his Diary: — *I wrote to Aston/ 
Prayers and Meditations^ page 206. 

770. 

To Captain Langton. 
Bolt Court, March 20, 1782. Published in the Ufe^ iv. 145. 

771. 

To Edmund Hector. 

London, March 21, 1782. Published in the Life^ iv. 146. 

772. 
To Edmund Hector. 
Undated. Published in theZ^, iv. 147. 

778. 

To THE Reverend Dr. Taylor. 

London, March 22, 1782. 
On March 22 of this year, Johnson recorded in his Diary : — * I wrote 
to Taylor about the pot.' Prayers and Meditations^ page 208. 
For the silver coffee-pot stepost^ p. 262. 

day, March 14, to let me bleed more word in the Streatham set. Johnson 

copiously. Sixteen ounces were taken on his death-bed reproached Heber- 

away, and from that time my breath den with being ' timidorum timidis- 

has been free, and my breast easy.' simus.' Li/e^ iv. 399, n, 6. 

Pr, and Med,f p. 203. ' See ante^ i. 378, n. 3. 
Timorsome was perhaps a catch- 

To 



248 



To Mrs. Gastrell and Mrs. Aston, [a.d.1782. 



774. 

To William Gerard Hamilton. 

March 22, 1782. 

On March 22, 1782, Johnson recorded in his Diary \ — *I wrote to 

Hamilton about the Fcsdera* Prayers and Meditations^ page 208. 

The Fcsdera was, no doubt, Rymer's work. 

776. 
To James Boswell. 
I/>ndon, March 28, 1782. Published in the Life^ iv. 148. 



776. 
To Mrs. Gastrell and Mrs. Aston '. 

Dearest Ladies, 

The tenderness expressed in your kind letter makes me 
think it necessary to tell you that they who are pleased to wish 
me well, need not be any longer particularly solicitous about 
me. I prevailed on my Physician to bleed me very copiously, 
almost against his inclination. However he kept his finger on 
the pulse of the other hand, and, finding that I bore it well, let 
the vein run on. From that time I have mended, and hope I 
am now well. I went yesterday to Church without inconvenience *, 
and hope to go tomorrow. 

Here are great changes in the great world, but I cannot tell 
you more than you will find in the papers. The Men are got in, 



' First published in Croker's Bos- 
well, page 706. Corrected by me 
from the original in Pembroke Col- 
lege Library. 

" In Johnson's Diary there are 
the following entries at this date :— 
* March 28, Thursday. The weather 
which now begins to be warm gives 
me great help. I have hardly been 
at church this year; certainly not 
since the 1 5th of January. My cough 
and difficulty of breathing would not 
permit it This is the day on which 
in 1753 dear Tetty died. I have 
now uttered a prayer of repentance 
and contrition ; perhaps Tetty knows 



that I prayed for her. Perhaps Tetty 
is now praying for me. God help 
me. . . . We were married almost 
seventeen years, and have now been 
parted thirty. ... 29, Good Friday. 
After a night of great disturbance 
and solicitude, such as I do not re- 
member, I rose, drank tea, but with- 
out eating, and went to church. I 
was very composed. ... A kind letter 
from Gastrel [Mrs. Gastrell].' During 
the whole of the day he ate nothing 
but some buns at tea. The next day 
he records : — * I was faint ; dined on 
herrings and potatoes.' Pr, and 
Med,, p. 309. 

whom 



Aetat. 72.] 



To Miss Reynolds. 



249 



whom I have endeavoured to keep out, but I hope they will do 
better than their predecessors ; it will not be easy to do worse *. 

Spring seems now to approach, and I feel its benefit, which I 
hope will extend to dear Mrs. Aston. 

When Dr. Falconer ' saw me, I was at home only by accident, 
for I lived much with Mrs. Thrale and had all the care from her 
that she could take, or that could be taken. But I have never 
been ill enough to want attendance, my disorder has been rather 
tedious than violent, rather irksome than painful. He needed 
not have made such a tragical representation. 

I am now well enough to flatter myself with some hope of 

pleasure from the Summer. How happy would it be if we could 

see one another, and be all tolerably well. Let us pray for one 

another. _ , . t j- 

I am, dearest Ladies, 

Your most obliged, and 

most humble Servant, 

March 30, 1782. SaM: JoHNSON. 

London, Bolt Court, Fleet Street. 



777. 
To Miss Reynolds^. 

Dearest Madam, April 8, 1783. 

Your work* is full of very penetrating meditation, and very 
forcible sentiments. I read it with a full perception of the sub- 
lime, with wonder and terror ; but I cannot think of any profit 
from it ; it seems not born to be popular. 

Your system of the mental fabric is exceedingly obscure, and, 
without more attention than will be willingly bestowed, is unin- 
telligible. The plans of Bumaby ^ will be more safely* understood, 



' On March 20 Johnson recorded : 
— *The Ministry is dissolved. I 
prayed with Francis and gave 
thanks.* Pr, and Med,^ p. 207. On 
the afternoon of that day Lord North 
announced in the!House of Commons 
* that his Majesty's Ministers were no 
more.' ParL Hist, xxii. 1215. The 
Rockingham Ministry took their place. 

' Miss Seward mentions a Dr. 



Falconer of Bath. Seward's Letters^ 
V. 222. 

' First published in Croker*s Bos- 
weilj page 706. 

* For other works which Miss 
Reynolds had submitted to Johnson, 
see ante^ pp. 180, 223. 

* Buraaby, I conjecture, was a 
character in the book. 

' Perhaps Johnson wrote easily, 

and 



250 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A.D. 1782. 



and are often charming. I was delighted with the different 

bounty of different ages. 

I would make it produce something if I could, but I have 

indeed no hope. If a bookseller would buy it at all, as it must 

be published without a name, he would give nothing for it worth 

your acceptance. 

I am, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

778. 
, • To Mrs. Thrale '. ^ ., r o i 

Madam, Apni [34 or 35, 1783]. 

I have been very much out of order since you sent me away ; 
but why should I tell you, who do not care, nor desire to know? 
I dined with Mr. Paradise on Monday, with the Bishop of St. 
Asaph yesterday, with the Bishop of Chester' I dine to-day, 
and with the Academy on Saturday ^, with Mr. Hoole on Monday, 
and with Mrs. Garrick on Thursday the ad of May ^ and then — 
what care you ? what that ? 



" Piozzi Letters^ ii. 337. 

Mrs. Piozzi gives no other date to 
this letter than April. The Academy 
dinner was on Saturday, April 27. 
Johnson did not write on Friday, or 
he would have said : — * I dine with 
the Academy to-morrow,' Neither 
did he write on Tuesday, as he was 
going, he said, on the day he wrote 
to dine out for the third time that 
week; the first time was Monday. 
Rewrote therefore either on Wednes- 
day the 24th or Thursday the 25th. 

' The Bishop of St. Asaph was 
Dr. Shipley, and the Bishop of 
Chester Dr. Porteus. Hannah More 
was at the Bishop of Chester's din- 
ner. * Johnson was there,' she writes, 
*and the Bishop was very desirous 
to draw him out, as he wished to 
show him off to some of the company 
who had never seen him. He begged 
me to sit next him at dinner, and to 
devote myself to making him talk. 
To this end I consented to talk more 



than became me, and our stratagem 
succeeded. . . . He was very good- 
humoured and gay. One of the 
company happened to say a word 
about poetry. '* Hush, hush," said 
he, " it is dangerous to say a word 
of poetry before her ; it is talking of 
the art of war before Hannibal." 
He continued his jokes, and lamented 
that I had not married Chatterton, 
that posterity might have seen a pro- 
pagation of poets.' Hannah M ore's 
Memoirs^ i. 251. 

^ In the Exhibition of this year 
there were fifteen of Sir Joshua's 
pictures. In the Academy Archives 
there is the following entry about 
the dinner this year : — * That Mr. 
Fitz- Walter dress the dinner at the 
Academy for £^4,1, The wines to be 
claret, Madeira, port and Caracavalia 
(Calcavella).' Leslie and Taylor's 
Reynolds^ ii. 361. 

^ ' I have found,' he had written a 
few weeks earlier, ' the world willing 

The 



Aetat. 72.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



251 



The news run, that we have taken seventeen French trans- 
ports* — that Langton's lady is lying down with her eighth 
child, all alive — and Mrs. Carter's Miss Sharpe is going to 
marry a schoolmaster sixty-two years old ". 

Do not let Mr. Piozzi nor any body else put me quite out of 
your head ^ and do not think that any body will love you like 

Your, &c., 

Sam : Johnson. 



779. 
To Mrs. Thrale ^ 

Dearest Madam, April 30, 178a. 

I have had a fresh cold and been very poorly '. But I was 
yesterday at Mr. Hoole's, where were Miss Reynolds and many 
others. I am going to the club. 

Since Mrs. Garrick's invitation I have a letter from Miss 
Moore ^ to engage me for the evening. I have an appointment 



enough to caress me, if my health 
had invited me to be in much com- 
pany.' Ufe^ iv. 147. 

' * April 27. Letters from Admiral 
Barrington confirm the capture of 
the Pegasus, and four of the French 
transports.' Ann, Reg, 1782, i. 206. 

' Mrs. Carter had two or three 
times ' made long journeys with Miss 
Sharpe, a single lady of large fortune, 
who afterwards married the Rev. 
Osmund Beauvoir, D.D.* Mrs. Car- 
ter's Memoirs^ i. 457. Mrs. Thrale 
wrote to Miss Bumey on April 24 : — 
' Miss Sharp will marry the old 
schoolmaster too ! Did you ever hear 
Baretti talk of the Tromba Marino 
man that the girl in Venice would 
absolutely marry for the comfort of 
combing his beard?' Mme. D'Ar- 
blay's Diary ^ \\, 138. 

' * These words ag^in are of her 
own fabrication.' Baretti. 

* Piozzi Letters^ \\, 238. 

' Johnson wrote to Lawrence on 
the next ; — * Novum frigus^ nova 



tussisy nova spirandi difficultas^ 
novam sanguinis missionem suadent, 
quant tamen teinconsulto nolim fieri* 
Life^ iv. 143. The cold weather had 
returned. Horace Walpole wrote on 
May 5 : — * It is the depth of winter. 
Never was there such a spring! 
After deluges of rain we have had 
an east wind that has half-starved 
London, as a fleet of colliers cannot 
get in. Coals were sold yesterday 
at seven guineas a chaldron ; nor is 
there an entire leaf yet on any tree.' 
Letters^ viii. 216. The chaldron, ac- 
cording to Johnson's Dictionary^ 
should weigh 2000 pounds — 240 
pounds less than a ton. Horace 
Walpole's numbers, as he would have 
himself allowed, are always to be 
received with doubt. 

^ Hannah More, who when she 
visited London, generally lived at 
the Garricks'. She has no record of 
this evening, though very probably 
it was then that Johnson told her 
'he hated to hear people whine 

to 



252 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A.D. 1782. 



to Miss Monkton ', and another with Lady Sheffield at Mrs. 
Way's \ 

Two days ago Mr. Cumberland had his third night, which, 
after all expences, put into his own pocket five pounds. He has 
lost his plume I 

Mrs. S refused to sing, at the Duchess of Devonshire's 

request, a song to the Prince of Wales ^. They pay for the 
^ neither principal nor interest ; and poor Garrick's funeral 



about metaphysical distresses, when 
there was so much want and hunger 
in the world. I told him,* she con- 
tinues, * I supposed then he never 
wept at any tragedy but Jane Shore^ 
who had died for want of a loaf. 
He called me a saucy girl [she was 
thirty-seven years old], but did not 
deny the inference.' Hannah More's 
Memoirs^ i. 249. Miss Bumey de- 
scribes Mrs. Garrick as receiving her 
'with a politeness and sweetness of 
manners inseparable from her.' Early 
Diary of Fanny Bumey ^ i. 168. 

' Miss Monckton. Ante^ ii. 151, 
«. 7. 

* Lady Sheffield was the wife of 
Gibbon's friend, Colonel Holroyd, 
first Baron Sheffield. Gibbon de- 
scribed her on her death as 'an 
amiable and affectionate friend, whom 
I had known and loved above three 
and twenty years, and whom I often 
styled by the endearing name of 
sister.' Misc, Works^ i. 398. Mrs. 
Way, Johnson describes as her rela- 
tion. Post^ Letter of October 6, 1783. 
Lady Sheffield was a Miss Way. 
Burke's Peerage^ article Earl of 
Sheffield. Gibbon wrote to Colonel 
Holroyd in 1772 : — * As Mr. Way has 
probably unladen all the politics, and 
Mrs. Way all the scandal of the 
town, I shall for the present only 
satisfy myself with the needful.' 
Misc. Works, ii. 79. 

^ Cumberland had brought out at 
Covent Garden on April 20 his 
comedy of The Walloons, It was acted 



six nights. Baker's Biog. Dram, iii. 
389. In his Memoirs y ii. 193, he 
passes over its reception. The author 
for a long time had had for his pay 
the profit of the third night. After- 
wards a second night and later on 
a third night was added. Johnson's 
Works y vii. 271. Johnson's Irene, 
ran, says Boswell, nine nights ; * so 
that he had his three nights' profits.' 
Life, i. 198. Murphy says that * Gar- 
rick's play-house (Drury Lane) for 
some years held no more than j^220, 
during that period the charge on the 
author's night was sixty guineas. In 
1762 the house was enlarged to a 
receipt of ;^335 ; the deduction from 
the author's benefit was raised to 
seventy guineas.' Ufe of Garrick, 

p. 362. 

* Mrs. S is Mrs. Sheridan, the 

wife of R. B. Sheridan. See Life, 
ii. 369, where in 1775 Johnson 
praised Sheridan's * determination 
that she should no longer sing in 
public' I cannot find in Moore's 
Life of Sheridan any mention of the 
refusal to sing before the Prince. 

' Theatre. In 1776 Sheridan with 
two others bought Garrick's moiety 
of the patent of Drury Lane Theatre 
for ;^35,ooo; in 1778 he made a 
further purchase of the property. 
' By what spell all these thousands 
were conjured up,' writes Moore, * it 
would be difficult accurately to ascer- 
tain. That happy art of putting the 
future in pawn for the supply of the 
present must have been the chief 

expences 



AeUt. 72.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



253 



expences are yet unpaid, though the undertaker is broken'. 
Could you have a better purveyor for a little scandal ? But I 
wish I was at Streatham. I beg Miss to come early, and I may 
perhaps reward you with more mischief. 

I am, dearest and dearest Lady, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

780. 

Madam, ^^ ^^s- Thrale ». ^^y 8, 1782. 

Yesterday I was all so bonny, as who but me ? At night 
my cough drove me to diacodium, and this morning I suspect 
that diacodium will drive me to sleep in the chair. Breath 
however is better, and I shall try to escape the other bleeding ^, 
for I am of the chymical sect, which holds phlebotomy in abhor- 
rence ^- 

But it is not plenty nor diminution of blood that can make me 
more or less, jjy dearest dear Lady, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

I send my compliments to my dear Queeney. 



781. 

To THE Reverend Mr. , at Bath. 

[Ix)ndon], May 15, 1782. Published in the Life^ iv. 150. 



resource of Mr. Sheridan in all these 
later purchases.' Moore's Life of 
Sheridan, ed. 1825, i. 180, 1 91, 

263-4. 

' Ante, ii. 230, n, 3. 

* Piozzi Letters, ii. 240. 

^ He had the first bleeding no 
doubt as the result of his Latin letter 
to Lawrence. Antey ii. 251, n, 5. 

^ In Burton's Anatomy^ ed. 1660, 



p. 387, an account is given of the 
strife between the practisers of 
chymical physic and the Galenists, 
though phlebotomy is not mentioned 
there. Johnson, in spite of his abhor- 
rence, had by March 20 lost ^ about 
fifty ounces of blood ' {JLdfe^ iv. 146), 
and was not even then satisfied. 
He should have consulted Dr. San- 
grado. 

To 



254 To James BaswelL [a.d.i782. 

782. 

To George Kearsley. 
[London], May 20, 1782. Published in the Life^ i. 214, n. i. 

783. 

To . 



May 27, 1782. 

In Messrs. Sotheby and Co.*s Auction Catalogue of May 10, 1875, 
Lot No. 99 is a Letter of Dr. Johnson, two pages quarto, dated May 
27, 1782. 'He mentions the necessity of rectifying the passage about 
Death ; concludes by saying, " I have been for a long time very ill." ' 

The Letter was sold for £3 5^. 

A clergyman at Bath had drawn Johnson's attention to a passage in 
a selection from his writings, entitled Tke Beauties of Johnson^ which 
was supposed by some readers to recommend suicide. Johnson replied 
in a letter dated May 15, published in the Life^ iv. 150. On May 20 
he wrote to George Kearsley the publisher of the book, asking him to 
call on him with a copy. 3. i. 214, ». i. On May 29 he had an 
announcement inserted in the Morning Chronicle showing that it was 
not suicide but exercise which he had recommended. 

784. 

To \ 



Sir, 

I have collected the dates of our business. I shall be at 
home to-morrow morning. I am not well, but hope that you 
are better. Please to make compliments to all the Company of 
Wednesday. I ^^^ ^^^^ gir, 

Your most, &c.. 
May 28, 1782. Sam : Johnson. 

786. 

To James Boswell. 
l^ndon, June 3, 1782. Published in the Life, iv. 151. 

* From the original in the pos- as one of Mr. Thrale's executors, 

lUMton of Mr. J. C. Brooks, of 14 often had business, and who two 

tv*i^^wc Place, Newcastle. months later had to take a very long 

t1^i» Letter was perhaps written journey in the hope of recovering his 

^ Mtv rrrkins, with whom Johnson, health. JUfe, iv. 153. 

To 



Aetot. 72.] To Mrs. Tkralc, 255 



786. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 
Madam, London, June 4, 1782. 

Wisely was it said by him who said it first, that this world 
is all ups and downs. You know, dearest Lady, that when I 
prest your hand at parting I was rather down. When I came 
hither, I ate my dinner well, but was so harassed by the cough, 
that Mr. Strahan said, it was an extremity which he could not 
have believed without the sensible and true avouch of his own 
observation*. I was indeed almost sinking under it, when 
Mrs. Williams happened to cry out that such a cough should be 
stilled by opium or any means. I took yesterday half an ounce 
of bark, and knew not whether opium would counteract it, 
but remembering no prohibition in the medical books, and 
knowing that to quiet the cough with opium was one of Law- 
rence's last orders, I took two grains, which gave me not sleep 
indeed, but rest, and that rest has given me strength and 
courage. 

This morning to my bed-side came dear Sir Richard ^ I told 
him of the opium, and he approved it, and told me, if I went to 
Oxford, which he rather advised, that I should strengthen the 
constitution by the bark, tame the cough with opium, keep the 
body open, and support myself by liberal nutriment. 

As to the journey I know not that it will be necessary, desine 

mollititn tandem querularum ^. This day I dined upon skate, 

pudding, goose, and your asparagus, and could have eaten more, 
but was prudent. 

Pray for me, dear Madam ; I hope the tide has turned. The 
change that I feel is more than I durst have hoped, or than I 
thought possible ; but there has yet not passed a whole day. 



a ( 



' Piozzi Letters^ ii. 241. ^ Sir Richard Jebb. 

Before my God, I might not this * querelarum, Horace, 2 Odes^ 

believe ix. 17. 

Without the sensible and true ' At length these weak complaints 

avouch give o'er.' 

Of mine own eyes.' Francis. 



Hamlet^ Act i. sc. i. 



and 



2s6 



To Mrs. Thrale, 



[A.D. 1788. 



and I may rejoice perhaps too soon. Come and see me, and 
when you think best, upon due consideration, take me away. 

I am, dear Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

787. 

Madam '^^ ^^^- [Miss] Prowse'. 

I have thus long omitted the acknowlegement \sic\ of your 
letter and bill — ^not by levity or negligence but under the pres- 
sure of ilness \sic\ long continued and very distresful \sic\ I 
am now better, but yet so far from health that I have been 
purposing to seek relief from change of air by a journey to 
Oxford. 

Your health, Madam, I hope allows you the full enjoyment of 
this blooming season'. I have yet been able to derive little 
pleasure from verdure or from fragrance. 

I am, Madam^ 
Your most humble servant. 

Bolt Court, Fleet Street. SaM : JOHNSON. 

June 4, 1782. 

788. 

To Mrs. Thrale ^. 
Dear Madam, Saturday, June 8, 1782. 

Perhaps some of your people may call to-morrow. I have 



' First published in Notes cmd 
Queries^ 4th S. v. 442. Copied by 
me from a copy in the possession of 
the Rev. Edward B. Edgell, of Brom- 
ham Rectory, Chippenham. On the 
copy is written :—* The original in 
the possession of John Sheppard, 
Esqre, Frome, given to him by my 
father, the Rev. Edward Edgell, 
of East Hill, near Frome. This 
letter is curious as containing three 
words which vary from Dr. Johnson's 
own Dictionary's spelling — acknow^ 



legemcnty distresfuly and ilness. It 
is his receipt to Mrs. Prowse of 
Berkeley for Miss Heame's ;^io.* 

For Miss Heame see <i;i/^,ii. 193,^.4. 

' Horace Walpole wrote the same 
day : — * Stonhewer has been very ill 
of the influenza, and Palgrave a little, 
but we have had two dry days after 
fifty-three of rain, and begin to wear 
our rainbow again.' Letters^ viii. 229. 

' Piozzi Letters^ ii. 251. This 
letter is wrongly dated by Mrs. 
Piozzi, July 8. 

this 



AeUt. 72.] 



To Mrs, Thrale. 



257 



this day taken a passage ' to Oxford for Monday. Not to frisk 
as you express it with very unfeeling irony, but to catch at the 
hopes of better health. The change of place may do something. 
To leave the house where so much has been suffered affords 
some pleasure. When I write to you write to me again, and let 
me have the pleasure of knowing that I am still considered as 

Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

789. 

To Mrs. Thrale '. 
Dear Madam, Oxford, June II, 1782. 

Yesterday I came to Oxford without fatigue or incon- 
venience. I read in the coach before dinner^. I dined mode- 
rately, and slept well ; but find my breath not free this morning. 
Dr. Edwards, to whom I wrote word of my purpose to come, 
has defeated his own kindness by its excess. He has gone out 
of his own rooms for my reception ^ and therefore I cannot 



' Johnson does not in his Dic- 
tionary give a definition of passage 
which suits the sense in which he 
here uses it. Passenger^ however, he 
defines as * one who hires in any 
vehicle the liberty of travelling.' 

' Piozzi Letters^ ii. 261. This 
letter is wrongly dated by Mrs. 
Piozzi, June 11, 1783. It belongs 
without any doubt to June, 1782. 

^ It was at a coach-dinner on the 
road to Oxford that two years later 
he scolded the waiter for the roast 
mutton, saying : — ' It is as bad as 
bad can be ; it is ill-fed, ill-killed, ill- 
kept, and ill-drest.' Life^ iv. 284. 

^ Hannah More wrote this same 
month : — * I am engaged to dine on 
my return to Oxford with the 
learned Dr. Edwards of Jesus College, 
to meet Dr. Johnson, Thomas 
Warton, and whatever else is most 
learned and famous in this Univer- 
sity.* H. More's Memoirs^ i. 262. 
See posti Letter of May 31, 1784, 

VOL. II. S 



where Johnson speaks of Edwards 
as * my convivial friend.' It is strange 
that while in the Hebrides Johnson*s 
room is shown in some of the houses 
which he visited, of this visit of his 
to Jesus College no tradition is pre- 
served. In fact it is, I believe, a 
discovery of mine that he resided 
there. Where Johnson was lodged 
we cannot be sure. His host was 
Vice- Principal, and probably I am 
told in that capacity occupied the 
rooms in the south-western comer of 
the outer quadrangle, the first floor 
right. Johnson's fame in Oxford at 
this time is shown by an anecdote 
which I have from the Master of 
Balliol College. Boswell mentions 
Dr. Wall, a physician at Oxford, who 
drank tea with Johnson in 1784. Li/e^ 
iv. 292. His widow was alive when 
the Master entered Balliol. She 
used to narrate that she had seen a 
double line of people waiting to see 
Dr. Johnson enter the Cathedral. 

decently 



258 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A.D. 1782. 



decently stay long, unless I can change my abode, which it will 
not be very easy to do : nor do I know what attractions I shall 
find here. Here is Miss Moore* at Dr. Adams's, with whom 
I shall dine to-morrow. Of my adventures and observations 
I shall inform you, and beg you to write to me at Mr. Parker's, 
bookseller ^. 

I hope Queeney has got rid of her influenza, and that you 
escape it. If I had Queeney here, how would I shew her all the 
places ^ I hope, however, I shall not want company in my stay 

I am, dear Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

790. 

To Mrs. Thrale ^ 
Dear Madam, Oxford, June 12, 1782. 

My letter was perhaps peevish, but it was not unkind. 
I should have cared little about a wanton expression, if there 
had been no kindness ^ 

I find no particular salubrity in this air^ my respiration is 
very laborious ; my appetite is good, and my sleep commonly 
long and quiet ; but a very little motion disables me. 

I dine to-day with Dr. Adams ^, and to-morrow with Dr. 



' Hannah More. 

' Aniey ii. 228. 

' Mrs. Thrale, in the reply which 
she publishes to this letter, says : — 
' It would have been a fine advantage 
indeed could Miss Thrale have seen 
Oxford now in your company ; when 
we enjoyed it she was too young to 
profit of the circumstance.' Piozzi 
Letters^ ii. 267. Unfortunately for 
her credit she dates her letter June 
15, 1783, and in it refers to a letter 
of Johnson's written two days earlier. 
In June 1783 Johnson did not visit 
Oxford. Having by mistake inserted 
Johnson's letter in the text in the 
wrong year she fabricates her answer 
to include it and one written twelve 
months and two days later. 



* Piozzi Letters^ ii. 243. 

^ Johnson, I conjecture, wrote 
*any kindness.' The * wanton ex- 
pression * was * frisk.' Ante^ 11-257. 

^ Ayliffe in his State of the Uni- 
versity of Oxford (1723, i. 240) 
speaks of 'the sweetness and com- 
modiousness of the situation of 
Oxford.' In A Pocket Companion 
for Oxford (1762, p. 3), we read that 
' the soil is dry, being on a fine gravel, 
which renders it as healthful and 
pleasant a spot as any in the King- 
dom.' 

' *Dr. Adams,' writes Hannah 
More, * had contrived a very pretty 
piece of gallantry. After dinner, 
Johnson begged to conduct me to see 
the College ; he would let no one 

Wetherel. 



Aetat.72.] To Mrs. Tkrule. 259 

WethereP. Yesterday Dr. Edwards invited some men from 
Exeter college, whom I liked very well. These variations of 
company help the mind, though they cannot do much for the 
body. But the body receives some help from a cheerful mind. 

Keep up some kindness for me ; when I am with you again, 
I hope to be less burdensome, by being less sick*. 

I am, dearest Lady, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

791. 

To Mrs. Thrale ^. 
Dear Madam, Oxford, June 13, 1782. 

Yesterday a little physick drove away a great part of my 
cough, but I am still very much obstructed in my respiration, and 
so soon tired with walking, that I have hardly ventured one 
unnecessary step. Of my long illness much more than this does 
not remain, but this is very burthensome. I sleep pretty well, 
and have appetite enough, but I cheat it with fish. 

Yesterday I dined at Dr. Adams's with Miss More, and other 
personages of eminence. To-day I am going to Dr. Wetherel ; 
and thus day goes after day, not wholly without amusement. 

show it me but himself. "This was to hang in the HalL * His answer 

my room ; this Shenstone's." Then, was that he had no right to be placed 

after pointing out all the rooms of among the Founders and Benefactors 

the poets who had been of his college, of the College in the Hall ; that the 

" In short," said he, " we were a nest most he could aspire to would be a 

of singing-birds." When we came place in the Lodgings [the Master*s 

into the common-room, we spied a house], if the Master could find room 

fine large print of Johnson, hung up for his picture there.' Messrs. 

that very morning, with this motto: — Sotheby and Co.'s Auct, Caial,^ 

And is not Johnson ours^ himself a November 27, 1889, Lot 90. The 

host t Under which stared you in late Mr. Andrew Spottiswoode a few 

the face — From Miss Mor^s " Sensi^ years ago gave the College a fine 

biliiy** This little incident amused portrait of Johnson by Reynolds, 

us : but, alas ! Johnson looks very ill ' Dr. Wetherell was Master of 

indeed —spiritless and wan. How- University College, 

ever, he made an effort to be cheer- ' * Dr. Johnson,* writes Mrs. Piozzi, 

ful.' H. More's Memoirs ^ i. 261. * required less attendance, sick or 

Dr. Adams, writing about the print, well, than ever I saw any human 

says that Miss Adams told Johnson creature.' Piozzi's^if^^^/^J, p. 275. 

that he ought to give them his picture ^ Piozzi Letters^ ii. 244. 

s a I think 



26o 



To Mrs. Tkrale. 



[A.D. 1782. 



I think not to stay here long. Till I am better it is not 
prudent to sit long in the libraries, for the weather is yet so cold, 
that in the penury of fuel, for which we think ourselves very 
unhappy, I have yet met with none so frugal as to sit without 

I am, Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 
Poor Davis * complained that he had not received his money 
for Boyle. 

792. 

To Mrs. Thrale^ 
Dear Madam, Oxford, June 17, 1782. 

I have found no sudden alteration or amendment, but I am 
grown better by degrees. My cough is not now very trouble- 
some to myself, nor I hope to others. My breath is still short 
and encumbered ; I do not sleep well, but I lie easy. By change 
of place, succession of company, and necessity of talking, much 
of the terrour that had seized me seems to be dispelled; 

Oxford has done, I think, what for the present it can do, and 
I am going slyly to take a place in the coach for Wednesday, 
and you or my sweet Queeney will fetch me on Thursday, and 
see what you can make of me. 

To-day I am going to dine with Dr. Wheeler*, and to-morrow 
Dr. Edwards has invited Miss Adams and Miss More. Yester- 
day I went with Dr. Edwards to his living ^ He has really done 



' For *thc penury of fuel* at 
London, see ante^ ii. 251, n, 5. 
Horace Walpole writing on the same 
day as Johnson, says: — *You had 
better put an erratum at the end of 
your Almanac, for June read 
January^ Letters^ viii. 232. 

■ Most likely Tom Davies, the 
bankrupt bookseller. Life^ iii. 223. 

^ Piossti Letters^ ii. 249. 

* Johnson, after Wheeler's death, 
spoke of him as ' the man with whom 
I most delighted to converse ' and as 
' my learned friend.* Post^ Letters of 



August 20, 1783, and May 31, 1784. 
His talk no doubt was full of variety, 
for he had been Fellow of Magdalen 
College, Professor of Poetry, Pro- 
fessor of Natural Philosophy, and 
Regius Professor of Divinity, as well 
as Canon of Christ Church and Pre- 
bendary of St. PauPs {Alumni 
Oxonienses), Many of these offices 
he held at the same time. He died 
July 22, 1783. 

* He was Rector of Besselsleigh, 
Berkshire, a small village about five 
miles from Oxford. It was on a 

all 



Aetot. 72.] To the Reverend Dr. Taylor. 



261 



all that he could do for my relief or entertainment, and really 
drives me away by doing too much '. 

I am, Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

When I come back to retirement, it will be great charity in 
you to let me co a.e back to something else. 



798. 

To THE Reverend Dr. Taylor*. 

Dear Sir, 

You are doubtless impatient to know the present state of the 
court. Dr. Hunter ^, whom I take to have very good intelligence, 
has just left me, and from him I learn only that all is yet uncer- 
tainty and confusion. 

Fox, you know, has resigned, Burke's dismission is expected. 
I was particularly told that the Cavendishes were expected to 
be left out in the new settlement ^ The Doctor spoke, however, 



Sunday that he took Johnson to his 
living. No doubt they returned the 
same evening. The old manor-house 
was then standing which had be- 
longed to Lenthall, the Speaker. 
Johnson was no doubt gravely told 
that * Cromwell, who was a frequent 
visitor here, usually concealed him- 
self in a room to which the only access 
was by a chair let down and drawn 
up with pulleys.' Lewis's Topog, 
Diet, of England^ article Bessels- 
leigh. 

' By the kindness of my friend the 
Rev. Llewelyn Thomas, Vice-Prin- 
cipal of Jesus College, I am able to 
give further proof of the hospitality 
of his predecessor. The Battel-book 
for 1784 shows that the average 
battels or weekly bills were not much 
over \os, Johnson was there part of 
two weeks. In the week beginning 
June 7 the Vice-Principars battels 
rose to £2 i6s, 3<^, and in the next 
week to £i^ IS, In the second week 



many of the Fellows and Scholars had 
unusually high battels— one over £'^ 
— so that there seems to have been 
some general feasting. Well did 
Johnson call Edwards ^ my convivial 
friend.* 

' First published in Notes and 
Queries f 6th S. v. 461. 

The Prime- Minister, the Marquis 
of Rockingham, died on July i ; Lord 
John Cavendish, Chancellor of the 
Exchequer, and Fox, one of the 
Secretaries of State, resigned on the 
5 th; Burke's resignation as Pay- 
master-General followed almost im- 
mediately. The Earl of Shelbume 
succeeded Rockingham. Ann. jReg,, 
1782,1. 182, 213. 

^ Dr. William Hunter. Li/e, iv. 
220. See Appendix B. 

* Taylor, forty years earlier, had 
been hoping for preferment through 
the Duke of Devonshire, the head of 
the Cavendishes. Ante, i. 12, n, i. 
His hopes were once more baffled by 

with 



262 To the Reverend Dr. Taylor. [a.d. 1782. 

with very little confidence, nor do I believe that those who are 
now busy in the contest can judge of the event. I did not think 
Rockingham of such importance as that his death should have 
had such extensive consequences. 

Have you settle[d] about the silver coffeepot ^ ? is it mine or 
Mrs. Fletcher's ? I am yet afraid of liking it too well. 

If there is any thing that I can do for Miss Colliers', let me 
know. But now you have so kindly engaged in it, I am willing 
to set myself at ease. 

When you went away, I did not expect so long absence. If 
you are engaged in any political business, I suppose your opera- 
tions are at present suspended, as is, I believe, the whole political 
movement. These are not pleasant times ^. 

I came back from Oxford in ten days and was almost restored 
to health. My breath is not quite free, but my cough is gone. 

I am. Sir, 

Your most, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

London, July 8, 1782. 
To the Rev. Dr. Taylor at Ashbourne, Derbyshire. 
[Redirected, Market Bosworth, Leicestershire ^] 

794. 

To Miss Lawrence. 

[London], July 22, 1782. Published in the Life^ iv. 144, «. 3. 

796. 

T^ o To THE Reverend Dr. Taylor ^ 

Dear Sir, 

I do not hear that the Cavendishes are likely to find their 
[way] soon into pubh'ck offices, but I do not doubt of the Duke s 
ability to procure the exchange for which he has stipulated, and 
which is now not so much a favour as a contract. 

his friends going out of power on says of England : — * We seem to be 

Rockingham's death. See the next sinking.' 

letter. * Taylor was Rector of Market 

* Ante^ ii. 247. Bosworth. Ante^ i. 13, n, 6. 

' Miss Collier is mentioned, post^ ^ First published in Notes (md 

pp. 269, 270. Queries^ 6th S. v. 462. 



3 



See post^ p. 264, where Johnson 



Your 



Aetot. 72.] To the Reverend Dr. Taylor. 



263 



Your reason for the exchange I do not fully comprehend, but 
I conceive myself a Gainer by it, because, I think, you must be 
more in London. 

Mr. Burke's family is computed to have lost by this revolution 
twelve thousand a year '. What a rise, and what a fall ! Shel- 
burne speaks of him in private with great malignity '. 

I have heard no more from the Miss Colliers ^ Now you have 
engaged on their side, I am less solicitous about them. Be on 
their side as much as you can, for you know they are friendless. 

Sir Robert Chambers slipped this session through the fingers 
of revocation, but I am in doubt of his continuance. Shelbume 
seems to be his enemy. Mrs. Thrale says they will do him no 
harm. She perhaps thinks there is no harm without hanging. 
The mere act of recall strips him of eight thousand a year^ 

I am not very well, but much better than when we parted, and 
I hope that milk and summer together are improving you, and 
strengthening you against the attack of winter. 

I am, dear Sir, 

Your most affectionate 

Sam: Johnson. 

London, July 22, 1782. 
To the Rev. Dr. Taylor at Market Bos worth, Leicestershire. 



' Burke, in a letter dated April 24 
of this year, says : — * The office is to 
be ;^4,ooo certain. Young Richard 
[his son] is the deputy, with a salary 
of /soo. . . . Something considerable 
is also to be secured for the life of 
young Richard, to be a security for 
him and his mother. . . . My brother 
has before him the option of the 
Secretaryship of the Treasury, with 
precedence in the office.' Burke's 
Correspondence i ii. 483. In the short 
time in which he was in office, by his 
reform, ^ £/^7^ooo per annum was 
saved to the public, of which sum 
;^25,3oo were the usual and avowed 
perquisites of the Paymaster.' Prior's 
Burke^ ed. 1872, p. 218. 

' ' Johnson was at a certain period 
of his life a good deal with the Earl 



of Shelbume.' Lije^ iv. 191. He 
knew also his brother, Mr. Fitz- 
maurice. Ante^ ii. 81. Burke spoke 
of Shelbume with great violence. In 
1783 he described him in a letter 
to a private friend as 'this wicked 
man, and no less weak and stupid 
than false and hypocritical.' Payne's 
Select Works of Burke, voL i. p. xvi. 

' Their mother as is shown, /^j/, 
by the Letter of January 16, 1783, 
had married a Mr. Flint. She had 
brought him, Johnson thought, about 
;^2oo a year. She was dead, and he 
apparently was attempting to keep 
the property to himself. 

* Chambers, in 1773, had been ap- 
pointed second Judge in the Supreme 
Court of Bombay with ;£6,ooo a year. 
He had been one of Nuncomar's 

To 



264 



To the Reverend Dr. Taylor. [a.d. nsa. 



796. 

To Mr. Perkins. 
[London], July 28, 1782. Published in the Life^ iv. 153. 



797. 

To THE Reverend Dr. Taylor*. 

Dear Sir, 

The refusal of Mr. Dixie', if it be peremptory and final, 

puts an end to all projects of exchange. You may, however, if 

your friends get into power, obtain preferment. But do not be 

any further solicitous about it ; leave the world a-while to itself. 

I now direct to Ashbourne, where I suppose you are settled 
for a-while, and where I beg you to do what you can for the poor 
Colliers. 

I have no national news that is not in the papers, and almost 
all news is bad. Perhaps no nation not absolutely conquered 
has declined so much in so short a time. We seem to be sinking ^ 
Suppose the Irish having already gotten a free trade and an 
independent Parliament, should say we will have a King, and 
ally ourselves with the house of Bourbon, what could be done to 
hinder or to overthrow them * ? 



Judges. Lord Shelbume had only 
been in office two or three days when 
he transmitted to Sir Elijah Impey, 
the Chief Justice, the message by 
which that judge was recalled. 
Chambers, however, was not touched. 
In 1789 he was made Chief Justice. 
See Life^ ii. 264, and Nuncomar and 
Impey by Sir J. F. Stephen, i. 35 ; 
ii. 6. 

' First published in the CcUcdof^ue 
of Mr, Alfred Morrison* s Auto- 
graphs, ii. 343. 

' He was probably a relation of 
Sir Wolfstan Dixey, the patron of 
Taylor's living of Market Bosworth. 
Ante, i. 13, n, 6. 

^ Horace Walpole wrote at the end 
<rf the month : — * This country is 
absolutely lost. I mean, past re- 



covery. . . . Ireland has shaken us 
oflf— not unfortunately, if it goes no 
farther ; for it will flourish, which our 
jealousy hindered.* Letters , viii. 271. 
* In the session of 1779-80 Lord 
North, yielding to Ireland's demand 
for * a free and unlimited commerce 
with the whole world,' carried through 
Parliament three bills which greatly 
freed her trade. Ann, Reg,, 1780, L 
25, 78. Horace Walpole wrote on 
December 20, 1779 : — * Great conces- 
sions to Ireland have been adopted, 
are sailing through both Houses with 
favourable gales, have been notified 
to Ireland, and have pleased there, 
and we trust will restore harmony 
between these islands.* Letters, vii. 
293. The independent Parliament 
was the work of Lord Rockingham's 

Poor 



Aetot.72.] To the Revercftd Dr. Taylor. 265 



Poor dear Dr. Lawrence is gone to die at Canterbury. He has 
lost his speech and the action of his right side, with very little 
hope of recovering them '. 

We must all go. I was so exhausted by loss of blood, and 

by successive disorders in the beginning of this year that I am 

afraid that the remaining part will hardly restore me. I have 

indeed rather indulged myself too much, and think to b^in 

a stricter regimen. As it is my friends tell me from time to 

time that I look better, and I am very willing to believe them. 

Do you likewise take care of your health, we cannot well spare 

one another. 

I am, dear Sir, 

Yours affectionately, 
London, August 4, 1782. SaM: JoHNSON. 

798. 

To THE Reverend Dr. Taylor'. 
Dear Sir, 

I calculate this letter to meet you at Ashbourne, whither 

I hope you are well enough to come according to your purpose. 

And I write to warn you very carefully against useless and 

unnecessary vexation. To be robbed is very offensive, but you 

have been robbed of nothing that you can feel the want of. Let 

not the loss, nor the circumstances of the loss, take any hold 

upon your mind. This loss will in a short time repair itself, but 

you have a greater loss, the loss of health which must be repaired 

by your own prudence and diligence, and of which nothing can 

more obstruct the reparation than an uneasy mind. 

But how are you to escape uneasiness? By company and 

business. Get and keep about you those with whom you are 

most at ease, and contrive for your mornings something to do, 

and bustle about it as much as you can. If you think London 

short Ministry. Walpole wrote on May demand a dissolution of the Union.' 
18, 1782 (ib. viii. 222): — * Both Houses ' He died at Canterbury in June of 
in very few hours signed the absolute the following year. Lifey iv. 230, n, 2. 
independence of Ireland. I shall not ' From the original in the posses- 
be surprised if our whole trinity is sion of Messrs. J. Pearson and Co., 
dissolved, and if Scotland should 5 Pall Mall Place, S.W. 

a place 



266 To the Reverend Dr. Taylor. [a.d. 1782. 

a place of more amusements come hither, or take any other kind 
of harmless diversion, but diversion of some kind or other you 
cannot at present be without. To muse and think will do you 
much harm, and if you are alone and at leisure, troublesome 
thoughts will force themselves upon you '. 

Be particularly careful now to drink enough', and to avoid 
costiveness ; you will find that vexation has much more power 
over you, ridiculous as it may seem, if you neglect to evacuate 
your body. 

I have now had three quiet nights together, which, I suppose, 
I have not for more than a year before ^ I hope we shall both 
grow better, and have a longer enjoyment of each other. 

I am, dear Sir, 

Yours affectionately, 

Sam: Johnson. 

London, August 12, 1782. 
To the Reverend Dr. Taylor, in Ashbourne, Derbyshire. 



799. 

To THE Reverend Dr. Taylor \ 

Dear Sir, 

Though I follow you thus with letters, I have not much to 
say. I write because I would hear from you the state of your 
health and of your mind. Upon your mind in my opinion your 
health will very much depend, and I therefore repeat my 
injunction of bustle and cheerfulness. Do not muse by yourself; 
do not suffer yourself to be an hour without something to do. 
Suffer nothing disagreeable to approach you after dinner. 

Of the publick I have nothing to say, there seem to be ex- 
pectations of a violent session when the factions meet. Nor have 
I much to say of myself but that I think myself freed from all the 

' See Lifcy ii. 440, iii. 415, for to the middle of June I was battered 

Johnson's art of managing the mind, by one disorder after another.' Life^ 

' See ante^ i. 368 ; ii. %T, iv. 1 53. 

' On August 24 he wrote to Bos- * From the original in the posses- 
well : — * This year has been very sion of Mr. George Peck, of 25 Ches- 
heavy. From the middle of January ham Place, Belgrave Square, S.W. 

supervenient 



Aet«t.72.] To the Reverend George Strahan. 267 

supervenient distempers of this year, and as well as when I was 
with you. My great complaint now is unquietness in the night. 
Do not let me write again before I am told how you do. It is 
reasonable that you and I should be anxious for each other ; our 
ages are not very different, and we have lived long together. 

I am, dear Sir, 

Your affectionate, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

August 17, 1782. 

To the Reverend Dr. Taylor, in Ashbourne, Derbyshire. 

Do not fret. 

800. 

To THE Reverend George Strahan '. 
Sir, 

I have not yet read your letter through and therefore cannot 
answer it particularly. Of what you say so far as I have read 
all is, I think, true but the application. What I told him ' of your 
discontent on many occasions was to not provoke him but to pacify 
him, by representing that discontent of which he complained 
so much, not as any personal disrespect to him but as a cast of 
mind which you had always had. Your discontent on many 
occasions has appeared to me little short of madness, which 
however I did not tell him ^. Then your uneasiness at Oxford 
was a weak [?] thing which passed for an instance by which I do 
not see how he could be inflamed. The whole tendency of what 
I said was this, * He is you say discontented, if he is, it is not 
by any personale \sic\ disesteem to you, he is apt to be dis- 
contented.' 

As to the matter of the money I am much of the mind that 
you have represented. But I did not think nor think now that 
I said anything that would hinder your father from any act of 
liberality^. 

' From the original in the posses- writing to him when a boy at school 

sion of Mr. William R. Smith, of was anxious not to be suspected of 

Greatham Moor, West Liss, Hants, betraying his state of mind. 

* George Strahan's father, William * William Strahan wrote to David 

Strahan the printer. Hume on January 25, 1773 : — * My 

^ See ante^ i. 95, where Johnson son George is now Vicar of Islington, 

You 



268 To the Reverend George Strakan. [a.d. 1782. 

You may be sure, I am sure, I had no intention to hurt you, 
and if I have hurt you, nothing that I can do shall be omitted to 
repair the hurt. 

You may well be at a loss to conjecture why I should injure 
you, whom certainly I have no reason to injure, and whom I 
would suffer much [rather] than injure by design, and shall be 
very sorry if I have done it by that train of talk which I was 
drawn into without design and almost without remembrance 
If I have really done you harm I shall live in hope of doing you 
sometime as much good, though good is not so easily done. 

I am. Sir, 

Your most, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

Aug. 19, 1782. 
[Sent in a cover addressed to the Reverend Mr. Strahan.] 

801. 

To James Boswell. 
[London], August 24, 1782. Published in the LifCy iv. 153. 

802. 

To Miss Lawrence. 
[London], August 26, 1782. Published in the Life^ iv. 144, n. 2. 

808. 

To James Boswell. 
London, September 7, 1782. Published in the Life^ iv. 154. 

804. 

To Mrs. Boswell. 
London, September 7, 1782. Published in the Life, iv. 156. 

805. 

To James Boswell. 

London, September or October. One paragraph only of this Letter 
is published in the Life, iv. 155. 

with an income of between £yx> and less than these things usually come 
;^4oo a year. The purchase however to.' Hume's Letters to Strahan^ p. 
cost a good deal of money, though 261. 

To 



Aetat. 78.] To the Revcrcnd Dr. Taylor. 269 



806. 

To THE Reverend Dr. Taylor ^ 

Dear Sir, 
Your letter about a week ago told me that your health is 
mended. Health is the basis of all happiness of \sic] this world 
gives. Your loss likewise seems to be less than I had feared. 

Of the probability of Shelbume's continuance * I can make no 
judgment. Sickness has this year thrown me out of the world ; 
but I think myself growing better. 

The proposal of Miss Colliers seems to be wild. If I under- 
stand it right, they wish that he should lend them money, that 
they may sue him for the estate ^. 

I hope to let them know that if they send me their Grand* 
father's will, I will get some opinion upon it. 

If they want money to procure it from the registry I will 
repay you what you advance as far as ten pounds. 

Take great care of your health. Let nothing disturb you. 
Particularly avoid costiveness, and open no letter of business but 
in the morning. 

If you would have me write to Mr. Hayley^ about Miss 
Colliers, let me know. I will do anything for them that is proper. 

I am, Sir, 

Yours affectionately, 

Sam: Johnson. 

Sept. 21, 1782. 
To the Reverend Dr. Taylor, in Ashbourne, Derbyshire. 

807. 

T^ « To THE Reverend Dr. Taylor ^. 

Dear Sir, 
To help the ignorant commonly requires much patience^ for 

* From the original in the posses- * Mr. Chamberlain is not sure of 

sion of Mr. Mellin Chamberlain, of the name, and thinks it may be 

the Boston Public Library, United Lay ley, I believe it is Langley, 

States. See anie^ ii. 34, n. 3, and fost. Letter 

' The Shelbume Ministry lasted of January 16, 1783. 

from July 13, 1782 to April 5, 1783. ' First published in Notes and 

^ * He ' is their step-father, Mr. Queries^ 6th S. v. 462. 
Flint. An/e, ii. 263, «. 3. 

the 



270 To the Reverend Dr. Taylor. [a.d.1782. 

the ignorant are always trying to be cunning '. To do business 
by letters is very difficult, for without the opportunity of verbal 
questions much information is seldom obtained. 

I received, I suppose, by the coach a copy of Dunn's will, and 
an abstract of Mr. Flint's (?) * marriage settlement. By whom 
they were sent I know not. The copy of the Will is so worn, 
that it is troublesome to open it, and has no attestation to evince 
its authenticity. The extract is, I think, in Mr. Flint's own 
hand, and has not therefore any legal credibility. 

What seems to me proper to be done, but you know much 
better than I, is to take an exemplification ^ of the will from the 
registry. We are then so far sure. This will I entreat you to 
send. If it be clear and decisive against the girls, there can be 
no farther use of it. If you think it doubtful, send it to Mr. 
Madox, and I will pay the fee. 

When the will is despatched, the marriage settlement is to be 
examined, which if Mr. Flint refuses to shew, he gives such 
ground of suspicion as will justify a legal compulsion to shew it. 

It may perhaps be better that I should appear busy in this 
matter than you, and if you think it best, I will write to Lich- 
field that a copy of the will may be sent to you, for I would 
have you read it. I should be told the year of Mr. Dunn's 
death. 

I think the generosity of Mr. Flint somewhat suspicious, I 
have however not yet condemned him nor would irritate him too 
much, for perhaps the girls must at last be content with what he 
shall give them. 

My letter, which you shewed to Miss Collier, she did not 
understand, but supposed that I charged her with asking money 
of Mr. Flint, in order to sue him. I only meant that her pro- 
posal was to him eventually the same, and was therefore, as I 
called it, wild. 

* * Every man wishes to be wise, 1774 visited Mr. Flint at Ashbourne, 

and they who cannot be wise are Life, v. 430. 

almost always cunning . . . nor is ^ The only definition Johnson gives 

caution ever so necessary as with of exemplification in his Dictionary 

associates or opponents of feeble is as it is here used — 'a copy; a 

minds.' The Idler, No 92. transcript.' 



' See ante, ii. 263. Johnson in 



I hope 



A6Ut.78.] To the Reverend James Compton, 



271 



I hope your health improves. I am told that I look better 
and better. I am going, idly enough, to Brighthelmston. I 
try, as I would have you do, to keep my body open, and my 
mind quiet. 

I hope my attention grows more fixed. When I was last at 
your house I began, if I remember right, another perusal of the 
Bible, which notwithstanding all my disorders I have read 
through except the Psalms. I concluded the twenty second of 
last month. I hope, for as many years as God shall grant me, 
to read it through at least once every year *. 

Boswel's Father is dead, and Boswel wrote me word that he 

would come to London for my advice. [The] advice which I 

sent him is to stay at home and [busy] himself with his own 

affairs^. He has a good es[tate] considerably burthened by 

settlements^ and he is himself in debt. But if his wife lives, I 

think he will be prudent ^ - ^. 

^ I am, Sir, 

Yours affectiona[tely] 

Sam: Johnson. 

London, Oct. 4, 1782. 
To the Rev. Dr. Taylor in Ashboum, Derbyshire. 



808. 



Q. To THE Reverend James Compton*. 

I have directed Dr. Vyse's letter to be sent to you, that you 
may know the situation of your business. Delays are incident 



' On Easter Eve, 1772, Johnson 
recorded : — * I resolved last Easter 
to read within the year the whole 
Bible, a very great part of which I 
had never looked upon. I read the 
Greek Testament without construing, 
and this day concluded the Apo- 
calyse.' Pr. and Med., p. 112. A 
week later he recorded :— * It is a 
comfort to me that at last, in my 
sixty- third year, I have attained to 
know even thus hastily, confusedly, 
and imperfectly, what my Bible con- 
tains.' lb. p. 118. 

' Boswell wrote to Johnson on 



August 30 to say that his father had 
died that morning, and received an 
answer dated September 7. Ufe^ iv. 
154. * In answer to my next letter,' 
continues Boswell, * I received one 
from him dissuading me from hasten- 
ing to him, as I had proposed.' John- 
son's advice was, no doubt, prudent, 
but the U/e of Johnson is all the 
poorer for it. He conmionly, perhaps 
always, spelt Boswell Boswel, 

^ She died in June, 1789. 

^ First published in Malone's Bos- 
welly iv. 225. 

Compton was the Librarian of the 

to 



272 



To the Reverend George Strakan. [a.d.1782. 



to all affairs ; but there appears nothing in your case of either 
superciliousness or neglect. Dr. Vyse seems to wish you well. 

I am, Sir, 

Your most humble servant, 

Oct. 6, 1782. Sam: Johnson. 

To the Reverend Mr. Compton. 



Sir, 



809. 

To THE Reverend George Strahan ". 



When I called last week, to do a little business in New 
Street ', I found the difference between you and your Father still 
subsisting, and though I have reason to think you sufficiently 
prejudiced against my advice, I will, without much anxiety 
about my reception, suggest some reasons, for which, in my 
opinion, you ought to make peace as soon as you can. 

All quarrels grow more complicated by time, and as they 
grow more complicated, grow harder to be adjusted 

When a dispute is made publick by references and appeals, 
which neither your Father nor you have enough avoided, 
there mingles with interest or resentment a foolish feint of honour. 
Perhaps each part will yield, were not each ashamed. 

Your dispute has already gone so far, that the first concession 
ought to come from you, since you may without any disgrace 
yield to your Father, and your Father will hardly yield to you, 
but with some dishonour to both. 



Convent of the Benedictines in which 
Johnson had a cell appropriated to 
him in his visit to Paris in 1775. 
Compton came over to England * and 
renounced the errors of Popery.' 
Being in great distress he called on 
Johnson, who having heard his story 
'with the warmest expressions of 
tenderness and esteem put into his 
hand a guinea, assuring him that he 
might expect support from him till a 
provision for him could be found. He 
furnished him with decent apparel, 
and introduced him to the Bishop ojf 
London, who licensed him to preach 
in his diocese.' Hawkins's y(?A«J<wf, 



p. 530. M alone in a note gives 
further information. See fosf^ Letter 
of April 19, 1783. 

' From the original in the posses- 
sion of Mr. William R. Smith, of 
Greatham Moor, West Liss, Hants. 

* New Street, Fetter Lane, * whither 
in February, 1770, the King's print- 
ing-house was removed from what is 
still called Printing House Square.' 
Croker. In 1770 William Strahan 
had purchased from George Eyre ' a 
share of the patent for King's Printer.' 
Letters of Hume to Strahan, p. xliii. 
For the difference between the father 
and son, see ante, ii. 267. 

You 



Aetat78.] To Jokfl Ntckols. 273 

You might therefore properly make the first advances, even 
if your Father were in the wrong, of which, if I understand the 
question, you will find it difficult to convict him. 

When a man is asked for money which he does not owe he has 
a right to enquire, why the demand is made. 

When you tell him that you ask for money because you want 
it, he may again very reasonably enquire why you are in want 
who have already much more than is generally appendant to 
your station. 

To this question it is my advice that you give a calm, decent, 
and general answer. Neither your Friends wish, nor, I suppose, 
your Father wishes that you should show bills and receipts, 
though of those you need not be ashamed, for nobody suspects 
your expences of anything vitious, but that you should tell in a 
manly and liberal way why your income falls short of your desires. 

With a general account, such as may liberally give him the 
victory, your Father will probably be satisfied, and this account 
it will be prudent rather to write than to give in person, though 
to a written account there may be objections. You will use 
your discretion. 

My serious, and whatever you may think, my friendly advice 

is that you make haste to reconciliation. Those who encourage 

either to persist, mean ill to one of you, perhaps without meaning 

well to the other, or without much malice or any kindness divert 

themselves with your discord, and are quietly amused by guessing 

the event. t c- 

I am. Sir, 

Your most humble Servant, 

Brighthelmston S Oct. 10, 1782. SaM: JOHNSON. 

To the Reverend Mr. Strahan at Islington, London. 

810. 

gjj^ To John Nichols". 

While I am at Brighthelmston, if you have any need of 

' Johnson wrote to Boswell :— * I " First published in the Gentle^ 
came to Brighthelmston in a state «a«*j Afd'^tf«>f^ for 1 784, page 893 ; 
of so much weakness that I rested and subsequently in part in the ZJ/et 
four times in walking between the iv. 161 • 
inn and the lodging.' Uftf vl 1 56. 

VOL. II. T consulting 



2 74 



To Mauritius Lowe, 



[A.D. 1782. 



consulting me, Mr. Strahan will do us the favour to transmit our 
papers under his frank. 

I have looked often into your Anecdotes ', and you will hardly 
thank a lover of literary history for telling you that he has been 
informed and gratified. I wish you would add your own dis- 
coveries and intelligence to those of Dr. Rawlinson, and under- 
take the Supplement to Wood *. Think on it. 

I am, Sir, 

Your humble servant, 
Brighthelmston, Oct. lo, 1782. SaM: JOHNSON. 

To Mr. Nicol. 



8U. 

c,_ To Mauritius Lowe^ 

oIR, October 22, 1782. 

I congratulate you on the good that has befallen you. I 
always told you that it would come. I would not, however, 
have you flatter yourself too soon with punctuality. You must 
not expect the other half year at Christmas. You may use the 
money as your needs require ; but save what you can. 

You must undoubtedly write a letter of thanks to your bene- 
factor in your own name. I have put something on the other 

side ^ 

I am, Sir, 

Your most humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 



* John Nichols published in 1782 
Anecdotes of William Bowyer^ 
Printer, In 181 2-1 5 he brought out 
this work, recast and enlarged, under 
the title of Literary Anecdotes of the 
Eighteenth Century, 

' Rawlinson had made MS. col- 
lections for a continuation of Wood's 
Athenae, 

^ First published in Croker's Bos^ 
well, page 709. 

For Mauritius Lowe, see ante, ii. 203. 

* * Amongst the papers of Mr. Lowe 
was found, in Dr. Johnson's hand- 
writing, the following draft of a 
letter : — 



"My Lord, 
The allowance which you are 
pleased to make me, I received 

on the by Mr. Puget. Of 

the joy which it brought your lord- 
ship cannot judge, because you 
cannot imagine my distress. It was 
long since I had known a morn- 
ing without solicitude for noon, or 
lain down at night without foreseeing, 
with terror, the distresses of the 
morning. My debts were small, but 
many; my creditors were poor, and 
therefore troublesome. Of this misery 
your lordship's bounty has given me 
an intermission. May your lordship 

To 



Aetat. 78.] 



To John Nichols, 



275 



812. 

To John Nichols*. 

Dear Sir, 
You somehow forgot the advertisement ' for the new edition. 
It was not enclosed. 

Of Gay's Letters I see not that any use can be made, for they 
give no information of any thing. That he was a member of 
the Philosophical Society is something ; but surely he could 
be but a corresponding member. However, not having his 
life here, I know not how to put it in, and it is of little 
importance ^ 

What will the Booksellers give me for this new edition ? I know 
not what to ask ^. I would have 24 sets bound in plain calf, and 
figured with [the] number of the volumes. For the rest they 
may please themselves. 

I wish. Sir, you could obtain some fuller information of Jortin, 



live long to do much good, and to do 
for many what you have done for, 
my Lord, your lordship's &c., 

" M. Lowe." ' 
Croker's Boswell^ ed. 1844, vii. 346. 

*My Lord* was probably Lord 
Southwell. 

' First published partly in the 
Gentleman's Magazine for 1785, page 
1 1, and partly in the Life, iv. 36, n, 
4, 161. 

' The brief Preface to the Lives 
Johnson, in accordance with the 
usage of the time, heads Advertise^ 
ment, 

^ The Philosophical Society was 
probably the Spalding Society, *a 
Society of Gentlemen for the sup- 
porting of mutual Benevolence, and 
their Improvement in the Liberal 
Sciences and Polite Learning.' Of 
this Society Nichols gives an ac- 
count in his Literary Anecdotes, vi. 
28. In the list of Members we find : — 
* John Gay, esq. lepidissimus Poeta ; 
October 31, 1728. Died 1732.'^. p. 84. 



* On December 7 of this year 
Johnson wrote to Boswell : — * Of my 
Lives of the Poets they have printed 
a new edition in octavo, I hear of 
three thousand.' Life, iv. 157. In 
Mr. Alfred Morrison's Collection of 
Autographs I have seen the follow- 
ing curious document : — 

* Received February 19, 1783, of 
the Proprietors of the Lives of the 
Poets by the hands of Thomas Cadell 
One Hundred Pounds for Revising 
the last Edition of that Work. 

;^ioo o o Sam. Johnson.' 
(The signature alone is in John- 
son's hand.) 

Below this receipt is pasted on 
the following paper in his writing : — 
' It is great impudence to put 
Johnson's Poets on the back 
of books which Johnson neither 

recommended nor revised. 
He recommended only Blackmore 
on the Creation and Watts. How 
then are they Johnson's ? This is in- 
decent.' 

T 2 Markland, 



276 



To William Strakan. 



[A.D. 178S. 



Markland, and Thirlby^ They were three contemporaries of 
great eminence. j ^^^ gj^^ 

Your most humble servant, 
[Brighthelmstone], Oct. 38, 1783- SaM: JOHNSON. 

This is all that I can think on, therefore send it to the press, 
and fare it well. Sam : JOHNSON. 

818. 

To Sir Joshua Reynolds. 
Brighthelmstone, November 14, 1782. Published in theZ^, iv. 161. 



Sir, 



814. 

To William Strahan*. 



Your kindness gives you a right to such intelligence relating 
to myself as I can give you. 



' For these three men see Life, iv. 
161. Jortin is said to be the author 
of the line, Palmam qui meruit fercU, 

When on his death-bed he was 
offered some nourishment 'he said 
with great composure : — " No, I have 
had enough of everything." A worthy 
clerg^yman asked him why he did not 
publish his Sermons. "They shall 
sleep," he replied, ''tiU I sleep.''' 
Nichols's Lit, Artec, ii. 570. 

Of Jeremiah Markland Nichols 
gives a long account in Lit, Anec, 
iv. 272. Porson thought so highly 
of him as a scholar that ' he went to 
see the house near Dorking where 
he had spent his later years and 
where he died.' Table-Talk of S. 
Rogers, ed, 1856, p. 322, In his 
early manhood, when the vote came 
on before the Senate at Cambridge 
for the degradation of Bentley, he 
might have ' saved by his single 
voice the great hero of literature 
from the unseemly fate that awaited 
him. But in the heat and clamour 
of that day the voice of learning had 
little chance of being heard.' Monk's 
Life of Bentley, ed. 1833, ii. 59, 169. 



Of Thirlby Nichols records the 
following anecdote on Johnson's 
authority. *"He went through my 
school," says Mr. Kilby, "in three 
years ; and his self-conceit was cen- 
sured as very offensive. He thought 
he knew more than all the school." 
"Perhaps," said a gentleman, to 
whom this was told, "he thought 
rightly."' Lit. Artec, iv. 264. For 
his insolence towards Bentley see 
Monk's Life of Berttley, i. 289 ; ii. 
167. He supplied Theobald with 
emendations of Shakespeare's text, 
of which the following is one of the 
most ingenious. A couplet in 
Oberon's song in A Midsummer- 
Nigh fs Dream, Act iv. sc. i, used 
to run : — 

* Dian's bud, or Cupid's flower 
Hath such force and blessed power.' 

He altered it : — 

* Dian's bud o'er Cupid's flower, 

&c.' 
Johnson's Shakespeare^ i. 152. 
■ From the original in the posses- 
sion of Mr. R. B. Adam, of 448 
Delaware Avenue, Buffalo, N, Y., 
United States. 

My 



Aetat. 78.] To the Revercftd Dr. Taylor. 



277 



My friends all tell me that I am grown much better since my 
arrival at this place. I do not for my own part think myself 
well, but certainly I mend. 

I shall not stay here above a week longer, and indeed it is 
not easy to tell why we stay so long, for the company is gone \ 

Last Friday or Saturday there was at this place the greatest 

take of herrings that has been ever known. The number caught 

was eight lasts, which at eight thousand a last, make eight 

hundred thousand ^ - ^. 

I am, Sir, 

Your most humble servant, 

Sam : Johnson. 

Make my compliments to dear Mrs. Strahan. 

Brighthelmstone, Nov. 14, 1782. 
To William Strahan, Esq., M.P., London. 



815. 

To James Boswell. 
London, December 7, 1782. Published in the Life, iv. 156. 

816. 

^ ^ To THE Reverend Dr. Taylor ^ 

Dear Sir, 

Your letter contained almost an answer to that which you 

had not received 

Take great care of your health. I am sorry that you are still 

subject to unprovoked disorders; but now you are better, be 

very tender of yourself. Had you been costive? or had any 



* When the company was there 
Johnson had been much neglected. 
Life, iv. 159, «. 3. On November 
20 Miss Bumey, who was of the 
party, records in her Diary : — * Mrs. 
and the three Miss Thrales and my- 
self all arose at six o'clock in the 
morning, and " by the pale blink 
of the moon" we went to the sea- 
side, where we had bespoke the 
bathing-women to be ready for us, 
and into the ocean we plunged. We 
then returned home, dressed by 



candle-light, and as soon as we could 
get Dr. Johnson ready we set out 
upon our journey in a coach and a 
chaise and arrived in Argyll Street 
at dinner time.* Mme. D'Arbla/s 
Diary y ii. 184. See antty ii. 123, 
n. I. 

' Johnson must have meant to 
write : — * The number caught was a 
hundred lasts.' 

^ Copied from the facsimile of the 
original in Mr. Alfred Morrison's 
CcUalogue of Autographs ^ ii. 342. 

thing 



278 



To William Strahan. 



[AJ>. 1782. 



thing disturbed you ? I have but two rules for you, keep your 
body open, and your mind quiet. 

Sickness concentrates a man*s attention so much in himself, 
that he thinks little upon the affairs of others '. Now I have a 
little gleam of health, I have the business of the Miss Colliers 
almost to begin : I do not know what it is that Mr. Flint offers *. 
Make me as much master of the business as you can, yet I am 
afraid of giving you trouble. I would write to the Miss Colliers 
if I knew how. Shall I send my letter under cover to you, or to 
any other person ? 

Miss Collier writes well, and can perhaps tell me something of 
importance. Let me know what I shall do. 

Take a scrupulous and diligent care of your healthy that we 
may yet have a little comfort in each other. 

I am, Sir, 

Your most affectionate, 

Sam: Johnson. 

London, December 9, 1782. 
To the Reverend Dr. Taylor, in Ashbourne, Derbyshire. 



Sir, 



817. 

To William Strahan ^ 



In your letter there is no need of alteration, it may serve its 
purpose very well as it is, but if you change any thing, I think 
you may better say nothing of his cloaths, for if you allow him 
five suits in two years, they will cost near £\^ and the other 
£%^ will easily go for linen shoes and all other parts of cloathing *. 



" * Depend upon it. Sir,* said John- 
son, *• when a man knows he is to be 
hanged in a fortnight it concentrates 
his mind wonderfully.' Lifcy iii. 167. 
On February 11, 1784, he wrote to 
Boswell who had sent him a Pamph- 
let : — * You will forgive a man 
struggling with disease his neglect 
of disputes, politics and pamphlets.' 
lb. iv. 260. 

" Ante^ ii. 270. 

' From the original in the posses- 
sion of Mr. William R. Smith, of 



Greatham Moor, West Liss, Hamp- 
shire. 

For the subject of the letter see 
antCy ii. 272. That it should have 
come, as it did, into the possession 
of the son was scarcely fair to 
Johnson. 

* In the Life of Bishop Porteus is 
the letter of a poor clergyman written 
in 1778. For 42 years he had been 
Curate of Wood Plumpton, near 
Preston ; * where I have led,' he 
writes, *an obscure contemplative 

Suppose 



Aetat. 78.] 



To Mrs, Thrale. 



279 



Suppose you concluded your letter with something like 
this. 

You express your desire of seeing me, and therefore I think 

it [word omitted] to let you know, that whenever you bring 

with you that respect and gratitude to which I am entitled, you 

shall find me no longer .. /*. j j o 

^ Your offended &c. 

This is all that occurs, except that perhaps it were as well not 

to insist on a minute knowledge of the wife's expences, but to 

blame the first article as indistinct, without requiring it to be 

reformed. 

I am, Sir, 

Your most humble Servant, 

Dec. II, 1782. Sam: Johnson. 

818. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 
Dear Lady, December 20, 1782. 

I hope the worst is at last over. I had a very good night, 

and slept very long. You can hardly think how bad I have been 

while you were in all your altitudes, at the Opera ', and all the 

fine places, and thinking little of me. Sastres^ has been very 

good. Queeney never sent me a kind word. I hope however 



life. I have brought up six sons and 
six daughters to men's and women's 
estates. All my annual income is 
something more than £^0 a year. 
Such is the indigence I am reduced 
to at present, that were it not for 
religious prospects I should be 
wretched beyond the utmost energy 
of language to express.' Porteus's 
JVorkSf i. 49. The Vicar of Isling- 
ton was every year to spend in 
clothes alone within five or six pounds 
of this Curate's income. Goldsmith 
spent on a single suit twelve guineas 
(Lt/e, ii. 83, «. 3) ; but a clergyman 
in his dress could not go to the same 
height of extravagance as a poet. 
' Pioszi Litters, ii. 252. 



■ 'Thursday [December 19] Mrs. 
Thrale and her daughter carried me 
to the Opera House.' Mme. D'Ar- 
blay's Diary, ii. 203. A few days 
later she records : — * I went in the 
evening to call on Mrs. Thrale, and 
tore myself away from her to go to 
Bolt Court to see Dr. Johnson, who 
is very unwell. He received me with 
great kindness, and bade me come 
oftener, which I will try to contrive. 
He told me he heard of nothing but 
me, call upon him who would [she 
had lately published her Cecilia] ; 
and though he pretended to growl 
he was evidently delighted for me.' 
lb, p. 211. 

^ The Italian master. 

to 



28o To the Reverend Dr. Taylor. [aj>.i788. 



to be with you again in a short time, and shew you a man 

again. ^ ^, , 

I am, Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

819. 

To Sir Joshua Reynolds. d^ ^6 1782 

In Messrs. Sotheby and Co.'s Auction Catalogue of May 10, 1875, 
Lot 126 is an autograph note on a card of Johnson to Sir Joshua 
Reynolds, dated Dec. 26, 1782, declining an invitation on account of 
illness. 

On Dec. 27 Miss Bumey found Dr. Johnson at Mrs. Thrale's house, 
and found him 'very comic and good-humoured. Susan Thrale had 
just had her hair turned up and powdered, and has taken to the womanly 
robe. Dr. Johnson sportively gave her instructions how to increase 
her consequence, and to " take upon her " properly. " Begin," said he, 
"Miss Susy, with something grand — something to surprise mankind. 
Let your first essay in life be a warm censure of Cecilia^^^ Mme. 
D*Arblay's Diary ^ ii. 215. Miss Bumey was at the dinner at Sir 
Joshua's the following day. lb, p. 216. 

820. 

To THE Reverend Thomas Wilson. 
[London], December 31, 1782. Published in the Life^ iv. 162. 

821. 
Dfar Sir ^^ ^^^ Reverend Dr. Taylor'. 

Your last little note was very unsatisfactory. That a silly 
timorous unskilful Girl has behaved improperly, is a poor reason 
for refusing to tell me what expectations have been raised by 
the will, and what questions I must ask the Lawyers, questions 
which if you do not like to answer them, I must ask elsewhere, 
and I am unwilling to mingle this affair with any name that 
you may hear with disgust '. 

" First published in Notes and Collier, and the name that Taylor 

Queries^ 6th S. v, 462, might hear with disgust that of Mr. 

' The silly girl was no doubt Miss Langley. Ante^ i.347,and/<7j/,p.382. 

This, 



Aetot 78.] 



To John Nichols. 



281 



This, my dear Sir, is the last day of a very sickly and melancholy 

year'. Join your prayers with mine, that the next may be 

more happy to us both. I hope the happiness which I have 

not found in this world, will by infinite mercy be granted in 

another. 

I am, dear Sir, 

Yours affectionately, 

Sam : Johnson. 

Dec 31, 1782. 
To jhe Reverend Dr. Taylor in Ashbourne, Derbyshire. 



822. 



Sir To John Nichols ». Jan. 10,1783. 

I am much obliged by your kind communication of your 
account of Hinkley^. I knew Mr. Carte as one of the Preben- 
daries of Lichfield, and for some time Surrogate of the Chan- 
cellor. Now I will put you in a way of shewing me more 
kindness. I have been confined by ilness [sic] a long time, and 
sickness and solitude make tedious evenings. Come sometimes, 

and see. Sir, 

Your humble servant, 

To Mr. Nichol. SaM : JOHNSON. 



' On his birthday in 1 78 1 (Sep- 
tember 18) he had recorded: — *As 
I came home from church I thought 
I had never begun any period of life 
so placidly.' Pr, and Med, p. 198. 

' First published in Nichols's 
Literary Anecdotes^ ii. 551, and com- 
pared by me with the original in the 
British Museum. It is possible that 
this letter is misdated 1783 instead 
of 1784, as by January 10, 1783, 
Johnson, though ill, had not been 
long confined to the house. On the 
4th he had dined at Dr. Bumey*s. 
* He was very iil,' writes Miss Bur- 
ney, *and only from an extreme of 
kindness did he come. All dinner 
time he hardly opened his mouth 



but to repeat to me : — " Ah ! you 
little know how ill I am.** He was 
excessively kind to me in spite of 
all his pain. He was so ill that after 
dinner he went home.' This was 
unfortunate, as in the evening Dr. 
Parr came. Mme. D'Arblay's Diary ^ 
ii. 227. 

' Nichols published in 1782, The 
History and Antiquities of HinMey 
in Leicestershire, Lit, Anec. vi. 632. 
In his History of Leicestershire, ii. 
168, the Rev. Samuel Carte is praised 
as 'a most judicious antiquary.' 
Carte was admitted Prebendary of 
Lichfield in 1682. Le Neve's Fast. 
Ecc. Ang, i. 629. 

To 



282 To the Reverend Dr. Taylor. [aj>.1783. 

828. 

To THE Reverend Dr. Taylor'. 

Dear Sir, 

I have for some time been labouring under very great 
disorder of Body, and distress of Mind. I wish that in our 
latter days we may give some comfort to each other. Let us at 
least not be angry, nor suppose each other angry. We have no 
time to lose in petulance. I beg you not to take amiss that I 
trouble you once more about the Colliers, I have but you and 
Mr. Langley to consult, and him I never have consulted, because 
you dislike him '. 

I would shew the Lawyers the papers, but that I know not 
what questions to ask nor can state the case, till I am informed 
with regard to some particulars ^. 

What do Miss Colliers suppose will be discovered in the writings? 

Had Mr. Flint a son by their Mother ? I think he has. What 
had he with their Mother? I think about £100 a year. What 
do they ask from Mr. Flint ? 

What does he offer them ? This you have told me, but my 
memory is not distinct about it, and I know not how to find your 
letter. Tell me again. 

All that has a bad appearance on Flint's part, is his requisition 
of a discharge from future claims. If they have no claims, what 
is the discharge ? Yet this may be only unskilfulness in him. 

I think there is no reason to suppose that Mrs. Flint's estate 
could be settled by her father exclusively upon Collier's children, 
or that she should be advised at her marriage with Mr. Flint to 
debar herself from providing for her future children, whatever 
they might be, in their due proportions. 

Do answer this, and add what it is necessary for me to know, 
and I hope to trouble you no more about it. When I have 
your answer I will transact with Mr. Flint and Miss Collier ; or 
with as little trouble to you as I can. 

You and I have lived on together to the time of sickness and 
weakness. We are now beginning another year ; may the 

' First published in Notes and Queries^ 6th S. v. 462. 
' Ante^ ii. 280, n, 2. ^ Ante ii. 263, 269. 

merciful 



Aetot. 78.] To the Rcvcrend George Strahan. 



283 



merciful God protect us both. Let us not neglect our salvation, 
but help each other forward in our way as well as we can. 

I am, dear Sir, 

Your affectionate 
London, Jan. 16, 1783. SaM: JoHNSON. 

To the Rev. Dr. Taylor in Ashbourne, Derbyshire. 



Sir, 



824. 

To^THE Reverend George Strahan'. 



I had very lately a visit from Mr. Strahan, our talk was of 

you, and I am sure he will tell you that I have never been your 

enemy. What passed is too long to be written, but if you will 

call on me to-morrow in Bolt court, where I shall be in the 

afternoon on purpose to receive you, I hope that Peace may be 

made. 

I am, Sir, 

Your most humble servant, 
Thursday, Jan. 16, 1783. SaM : JOHNSON. 

826. 

To THE Reverend George Strahan*. 
Sir, [? January, 1783.] 

You seem to suppose that your Father had some influence 
on my Letter. You are utterly mistaken. He knows nothing 



' From the original in the pos- 
session of Mr. William R. Smith, 
Greatham Moor, West Liss, Hamp- 
shire. For the subject of the Letter, 
see anie^ ii. 272. On the back is 
written, no doubt in George Strahan's 
hand : ^ Mr. G. Strahan presents his 
best Respects to Dr. Johnson, is 
much obliged to him for any service 
he may have done him, and will 
wait upon him To-morrow according 
to his Appointment. 

'Islington, January 16, 1783.' 

' From the original in the pos- 
session of Mr. William R. Smith, 
Greatham Moor, West Liss, Hamp- 



shire. The letter is imperfect. 

The following mention of George 
Strahan by Benjamin Franklin, I 
have only discovered since my earlier 
notes were in type : — Franklin wrote 
to W. Strahan on June 10, 1763 : — 
* Tell me whether George is to be 
a Church or Presbyterian parson. 
I know you are a Presbyterian your- 
self; but then I think you have more 
sense than to stick him into a priest- 
hood that admits of no promotion. 
If he was a dull lad it might not be 
amiss, but George has parts, and 
ought to aim at a Mitre.' Franklin's 
Works^ cd. 1887, iii. 240. 

of 



284 



To Joseph Cradock. 



[AJ>.1788. 



of it. My reason for writing was, if I had done any mischief to 
undo it as far as I could by good counsel. You have done what 
I wished to be done, and I have nothing more to recommend. 
Of promises I know nothing, and have nothing to say. 

The conference may perhaps as well be forbom [sic], but if 
must be, it will probably be made by the pressure of others 
shorter and more moderate ; and may therefore do less harm, 
if it does no good. 

[A part of the letter cut off.] 

Debts of kindness there may be, but surely those debts are 
not very niggardly paid, when nothing is required but to show 
that they are wanted. 

I flatter myself that by this time peace and content are restored 
among you, if not, I wish I could recal [sic] them. 

I am. Sir, 

Your humble Servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 



826. 

To Joseph Cradock '. 

Jan. 20, 1783. 

Mr. Johnson is very glad of any intelligence, and much obliged 

by Mr. Cradock's favour and attention. The book which he has 

now sent shall be taken care of; but of a former book mentioned 

in the note Mr. Johnson has no remembrance, and can hardly 

think he ever received it, though bad health may possibly have 

made him negligent. 

To Mr. Cradock. 



' First published in Literary and 
Miscellaneous Memoirs^ by Joseph 
Cradock, 1828, i. 243. Cradock says 
that he had borrowed for Johnson 
from Lord Harborough *a folio 
volume of manuscripts, magnificently 
bound, which contained poems by 
James I and others.' On receiving 
Johnson's letter, he consulted Steevens 
who said : — * That then is the book 
which now lies under his inkstand ; 
it is neatly packed up and sealed, 



and I never was able to make out what 
it was.' Cradock was at Marseilles 
when the news of Johnson's death 
reached him. He at once wrote to 
Reynolds and Cadell about the book. 
They replied that they had found it 
unopened on the very spot where 
Steevens had seen it, and they had 
returned it to Lord Harborough. 
For a brief notice of Cradock, see 
Lifey iii. 38. 

To 



Aetot. 78.] To the Rcvercnd Dr. Taylor. 



285 



827. 



To THE Reverend Dr. Taylor*. 

Dear Sir, 

I am glad that your friends are not among the promoters 
of equal representation, which I consider as specious in theory, 
but dangerous in experiment, as equitable in itself, but above 
human wisdom to be equitably adjusted, and which is now pro- 
posed only to distress the government '. 

An equal representation can never form a constitution, because 
it can have no stability ; for whether you regulate the repre- 
sentation by numbers or by property, that which is equal to-day, 
will be unequal in a week. 

To change the constituent parts of government must be 
always dangerous, for who can tell where changes will stop? 
A new representation will want the reverence of antiquity, and 
the firmness of Establishment. The new senate will be con- 
sidered as mushrooms which springing in a day may be blasted 
in a night. 

What will a parliament chosen in any new manner, whether 
more or less numerous, do which is not done by such parlia- 
ments as we have ? Will it be less tumultuous, if we have more, 
or less mercenary, if we have fewer ? There is no danger that 
the parliament as now chosen should betray any of our important 
rights, and that is all that we can wish. 

If the scheme were more reasonable, this is not a time for 



' First published in Notes and 
Queries y 6th S. v. 481. 

' On May 7 in the previous year 
the younger Pitt had moved for a 
Committee to enquire into the 
present state of the representation, 
and had been defeated by only 
twenty votes. Pari, Hist. xxii. 141 6. 
On the same day in the next year 
(1783) he brought forward a motion 
for a Reform in Parliament. It was 
lost by 144 votes. lb. xxiii. 827. 



Horace Walpole, who belonged to 
the same party among the Whigs 
as those described by Johnson as 
Taylor's friends, wrote on the mor- 
row of Pitt's defeat :— * The object 
of altering the Representation I think 
most dangerous. We know pretty 
well what good or evil the present 
state of the House of Commons can 
do, what an enlargement might 
achieve, no man can tell.' Letters^ 
viii. 362. 

innovation. 



286 



t 



To Sir Joshua Reynolds. 



[AD. 178S. 



innovation. I am afraid of a civil war. The business of every 

wise man seems to be now to keep his ground '. 

I am very glad you are coming. 

I am, &c., 

Sam : Johnson. 

Jan. 21, 1783. 
To the Reverend D' Taylor in Ashbourne, Derbyshire. 

828. 

To Miss Lawrence. 
Bolt-court, February 4, 1783. Published in the Life, iv. 144, n. 2. 



Sir, 



829. 

To Sir Joshua Reynolds 



Mr. Mason's address to you deserves no great praise ^ ; it 
is lax without easiness, and familiar without gaiety. Of his trans- 
lation I think much more favourably, so far as I have read, which 
is not a great part. I find him better than exact ; he has his 
author's distinctness and clearness without his dryness and 
sterility \ 



' Burke speaking about Reform of 
Parliament, said : — * Too dangerous 
an experiment to risk. Not any re- 
form proposed yet that did not seem 
to him highly hazardous. The least 
exceptionable that of Lord Chatham's 
" adding fifty Knights of the shire '* ; 
but this, as well as the rest already 
proposed, not to be thought upon in 
such times as these, or perhaps ever.' 
Mr. Burke's Table-Talky Misc. of the 
Philobiblon Society, vii. 52. Gibbon 
wrote on May 30, 1792 : — * If you do 
not resist the spirit of innovation in 
the first attempt, if you admit the 
smallest and most specious change 
in our parliamentary system, you are 
lost.* Misc. Works, i. 349. In the 
same year Fox said *he might be 
asked, why his name was not on the 



list of the Society for Refonn. His 
reason was, that though he saw 
great and enormous grievances he 
did not see the remedy.' Moore's 
Life of Sheridan, ed. 1826, ii. 182. 

' First published in Leslie and 
Taylor's Life of Reynolds, ii. 392. 

^ Mason translated into English 
verse Du Fresnoy's Latin poem De 
Arte Graphica, prefixing in verse 
An Epistle to Sir Joshua Reynolds. 
Reynolds illustrated the translation 
with a series of notes. 

* * The version of Fresnoy I think 
the finest translation I ever saw. It 
is a most beautiful poem, extracted 
from as dry and prosaic a parcel of 
verses as could be put together.' 
Walpole's Letters, viii. 73. 

As 



Aetat. 78.] 



To Sir Joshua Reynolds. 



287 



As I suppose you have lost your Lives I desire you to accept 
of these volumes, and to keep them somewhere out of harm's 
way, that you may sometimes remember the writer '. 

I am, Sir, 

Your most humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 

February 19, 1783. 



830. 

To Sir Joshua Reynolds'. 
Sir, March 4, 1783. 

I have sent you back Mr. Grabbers poem, which I read with 
great delight. It is original, vigorous, and el^ant 

The alterations which I have made I do not require him to 
adopt, for my lines are, perhaps, not often better [than] his 
own ; but he may take mine and his own together, and perhaps 
between them produce something better than either ^ He is not 
to think his copy wantonly defaced ; a wet sponge will wash all 
the red lines away, and leave the pages clean. 

His Dedication will be least liked : it were better to contract 



* Johnson had probably given 
Reynolds the first four volumes of 
the Lives, when they appeared in 
1779. In assuming that he had lost 
them he has perhaps a pleasant hit 
at his loss of Goldsmith's epitaph. 
Ante, i. 407. The original of this 
Letter, together with the ten volumes 
• whole bound in calf which had ac- 
C^ companied thenu was sold for ;^i 3 1 5 J. 
by Messrs. Sotheby & Co. on May 
10, 1875 (Lot 100). 

" Published in Croker*s Boswell, 
page 716, and in Crabbe*s Works, 
ed. 1834, ii. 12. 

In 1780 Crabbe had come up to 
London with three pounds in his 
pocket, as a Literary Adventurer, 
and for some months had lived a 
life of baffled hope. Rejected by the 
publishers, his last shilling gone, he 



wrote to Burke. * He was " a made 
man " from that hour.' Burke spoke 
of him to Reynolds. 'He has the 
mind and feelings of a gentleman,' 
he said. At Sir Joshua's table he 
met Johnson ; and a few days after- 
wards he called on him in Bolt 
Court 'Never fear,* said Johnson, 
'putting the strongest and best 
things you can think of into the 
mouth of your speaker, whatever 
may be his condition.' Reynolds, in 
forwarding to Crabbe Johnson's letter, 
said: — *If you knew how cautious 
Dr. Johnson was in giving com- 
mendation, you would be well satis- 
fied with the portion dealt to you in 
his letter.' Crabbe's Works, i. 91- 
100; ii. 12. 

^ Of these alterations Boswell gives 
a specimen. U/e, iv. 175. 

it 



288 To Joseph Fowke. [a.d.i788. 

it into a short sprightly address '. I do not doubt of Mr. Crabbe's 

success. 

I am, Sir, 

Your most humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 

831. 
To Dr. Scott. 

In Messrs. Christie and Go's Auction Catalogue of June 5, 1888, Lot 
52 is a Letter of Johnson to Dr. Scott [afterwards Lord Stowell], one 
page quarto, dated March 4, 1783. 'Asking him to give employment 
to a young man for whom he is interested ; and saying, " He is not 
without literature, and I hope he will be diligent." ' 

It is very likely that the young man was Crabbe, for whom his friends 
were seeking for employment. Burke was struck with his fund of 
general knowledge. * Mr. Crabbe,' he said to Sir Joshua Reynolds, 
* appears to know something of every thing.' Crabbe's Works, i. 97. 

832. 

To Sir Joshua Reynolds. 
[London], April 12, 1783. Published in the Zt/e, iv. 201. 

833. 

To James Barry. 

[London], April 12, 1783. Published in the Zi/e, iv. 202. 

834. 

To Joseph Fowke". 

Dear Sir, April 19, 1783. 

To shew you that neither length of time, nor distance of 
place, withdraws you from my memory, I have sent you a little 
present ^ which will be transmitted by Sir Rob. Chambers *. 
To your former letters I made no answer, because I had none 

* Neither Dedication nor Address For an account of Joseph Fowke, 

was adopted. Crabbe's Works ^ ii. who was in India, see ante, i. 409. 

13, /f. I. ^ No doubt his Lives of the Poets. 

' First published in Original * One of the Judges in the Su- 

Letters, ed. by Rebecca Warner, preme Court. Ante, ii. 263, n, 4, 
1817, page 207. 

to 



Aeut. 73.] To Joseph Fowke. 289 

to make. Of the death of the unfortunate man *, I believe 
Europe thinks as you think ; but it was past prevention ; and it 
was not fit for me to move a question in public which I was not 
qualified to discuss, as the enquiry could then do no good ; and 
I might have been silenced by a hardy denial of facts, which, if 
denied, I could not prove. 

Since we parted, I have suffered much sickness of body and 
perturbation of mind. My mind, if I do not flatter myself, is 
unimpaired, except that sometimes my memory is less ready ; 
but my body, though by nature very strong, has given way to 
repeated shocks. 

Genua labant^ vastos quatit ceger anhelitus artus '. This line 
might have been written on purpose for me. You will see, 
however, that I have not totally forsaken literature. I can 
apply better to books than I could in some more vigorous parts 
of my life, at least than I did ; and I have one more reason for 
reading ; that time has, by taking away my companions, left me 
less opportunity of conversation ^. I have led an inactive and 
careless life ; it is time at last to be diligent. There is yet pro- 
vision to be made for eternity. 

' Nuncomar. Ante^ i. 410, /r. i. before the date of this Letter, says : — 

' ' But each vast limb moves stiff ' I found htm in his arm-chair by the 

and slow with age, fire-side, before which a few apples 

And thick short pantings shake were laid. He was reading. I asked 

the laboring sage.' him what book he had got. He said 

C. Pitt. ^Emid^ v. 433. the History of Birmingham. Local 

^ In 1763 Johnson said to Bos- histories, I observed, were generally 

well : — * Sir, in my early years I read dull. " It is true. Sir ; but this has 

very hard. It is a sad reflection but a peculiar merit with me ; for I passed 

a true one, that I knew almost as some of my early years, and married 

much at eighteen as I do now.' Life^ my wife there." I supposed the 

i. 445. In I766he wrote toLangton: apples were preparing as medicine. 

— * I continue to rise tolerably well, " Why, no. Sir ; I believe they are 

and read more than I did.' lb, ii. only there because I want something 

20. In 1767 he told the King that to do. These are some of the soli- 

* he thought more than he read ; tary expedients to which we are 

that he had read a great deal in the driven by sickness. I have been 

early part of his life, but having confined this week past ; and here 

fallen into ill health, he had not been you find me roasting apples, and 

able to read much compared with reading the History of Birming- 

others.' lb, ii. 36. Malone, who had ham " ' Prior's Moloney p. 92. 

called on him two or three months 

VOL. II. U Let 



290 To the Company of Mercers, [iLD.iTas. 

Let me know, dear Sir, what you are doing. Are you accu- 
mulating gold, or picking up diamonds ? Or are you now sated 
with Indian wealth, and content with what you have? Have 
you vigour for bustle, or tranquillity for inaction? Whatever 
you do, I do not suspect you of pillaging or oppressing ; and 
shall rejoice to see you return with a body unbroken, and a mind 
uncorrupted. 

You and I had hardly any common friends ; and therefore I 
have few anecdotes to relate to you. Mr. Levet, who brought 
us into acquaintance, died suddenly at my house last )^ear, in 
his seventy-eighth year, or about that age. Mrs. Williams, the 
blind lady, is still with me, but much broken by a very weari- 
some and obstinate disease. She is, however, not likely to die ; 
and it would delight me if you would send her some petty token 
of your remembrance. You may send me one too. 

Whether we shall ever meet again in this world, who can tell ? 

Let us, however, wish well to each other : prayers can pass the 

Line and the Tropics '. 

I am, dear Sir, 

Yours sincerely", 

Sam: Johnson, 

886. 

To THE Worshipful Company of the Mercers^. 

Gentlemen, 

At the request of the Reverend Mr. James Compton, who 
now solicits your votes to be elected Under Master of St. Paul's 
School, I testify with great sincerity, that he is, in my opinion, 
a man of abilities sufficient, and more than sufficient, for the 
duties of the office for which he is a candidate. 

I am, Gentlemen, 

Your most humble servant. 
Bolt-court, Fleet-street, April 19, 1783. ^AM : JOHNSON. 

' Prayers apparently would take * Yours sincerely.* 

the longer course round the Cape of ^ First published in Malone's 

Good Hope. BoswelL For Mr. Compton see 

' No other letter of Johnson's ends ante^ ii. 271. 

To 



Aetat. 78.] To the Earl of Dartmouth. 291 



836. 
,, , To THE Earl of Dartmouth \ . ., 

My Lord, Apni 25, 1783. 

The bearer, Mr, Desmoulins, has persuaded himself that 
some testimonial from me will be useful to him in his application 
to your Lordship, and I hope that what I yield merely to his 
importunity will not be imputed to any vain conceit of my own 
importance. 

He desires indeed nothing to be said but what is true ; that 
he is not in difficulties by his own fault ; that he has a brother 
and sister in great distress, and that if he should by your Lord- 
ship's favour now obtain any little employment, he will, I hope, 
do the business faithfully, and use the income properly. 

I am, my Lord, 

Your Lordship's most obedient 

and most humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 

837. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 

Dear Madam, London, [Thursday] May-day, 1783. 

I am glad that you went to Streatham, though you could 

' First published in the Reports Richardson said, he would have been 

of the Historical Manuscripts Com- called the living Sir Charles Grandi- 

mission^ volume xi, appendix v, page son, had he not been a Methodist ; 

447. • and the peer not too proud to pray, 

The Earl of Darmouth on April 9 celebrated by Cowper.* 
had been made Lord Steward of the ' Piozzi Letters, ii. 255. 

Household. Book of Dignities, ed. Mrs. Piozzi publishes a letter 

1890, p. 290. Johnson might have written by her at Bath on Good 

made his acquaintance at the time Friday, in which she says, ' Harriet 

of the Cock Lane Ghost, of which, is dead ; Cicely is dying,' and that 

according to HoraceWalpole(Z>//^rf, she was hurrying up to London, 

iii. 481), 'the Earl was one of the Piozzi Letters, ii. 253. * Dear 

two great patrons.' Walpole de- Harriet,* she says, * died of measles, 

scribes him as sitting ' in the odour hooping-cough and strumous swell- 

of devotion ' at Dr. Dodd's Chapel, ings in the neck and throat.* Hay- 

Ib. p. 282. Cunningham says in a ward's Piozzi, i. 271. Why she had 

note on this passage : — * William left her dying child, and the other 

Legge, second Earl of Dartmouth who was thought to be dying, to 

(died 1 801), the same of whom strangers to nurse she forgets to 

U 2 not 



292 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[▲.D. 1788. 



not save the dear pretty little girl. I loved her, for she was 
Thrale's and your's, and by her dear father s appointment in 
some sort mine ' : I love you all, and therefore cannot without 
regret see the phalanx broken, and reflect that you and my 
other dear girls are deprived of one that was bom your friend. 
To such friends, every one that has them, has recourse at last, 
when it is discovered, and discovered it seldom fails to be, that 
the fortuitous friendships of inclination or vanity are at the 
mercy of a thousand accidents *. But we must still our disquiet 
with remembering that, where there is no guilt, all is for the best. 
I am glad to hear that Cecily is so near recovery. 

For some days after your departure ^ I was pretty well, but I 
have begun to languish again, and last night was very tedious 
and oppressive. I excused myself to-day from dining with 
General Paoli, where I love to dine ^ but I was griped by the 
talons of necessity. 

On Saturday I dined, as is usual, at the opening of the Ex- 
hibition. Our company was splendid, whether more numerous 
than at any former time I know not ^. Our tables seem always 
full. On Monday, if I am told truth, were received at the door 
one hundred and ninety pounds, for the admission of three 



mention. Mr. Hayward calls her 
letter an answer to Johnson's last 
(antey ii. 279), though she wrote on 
Good Friday and he had written 
before Christmas. She had been at 
the Opera at the time when he 
wrote. For little Harriet's pretty 
speech, see (mte^ ii. 239, n, i. The 
child's name was Henrietta Sophia ; 
she was buried at Streatham on 
April 25. 

' Johnson had been left their 
guardian. Post, p. 303. 

' For Johnson's * innocent envy of 
those who may be said to be bom 
to friends,' see antfy ii. 237, n. 2. 
He was sadly discovering that his 
* fortuitous friendship ' with Mrs. 
Thrale was rapidly coming to an 
end. 

' Hawkins found the following 



entry in Johnson's Diary: — * I783» 
April 5. I took leave of Mrs. Thrale. 
I was much moved. I had some 
expostulations with her. She said 
that she was likewise affected. I 
commended the Thrales with gp-eat 
good-will to God ; may my petitions 
have been heard.' Hawkins's U/e of 
Johnsofty p. 553. St&post, p. 303. 

* Boswell quotes these words, Life^ 
iv. 330. 

5 * It was more numerous ; 80 (at 
&r.) against 57 in 1781.' Leslie and 
Taylor's Reynolds y ii. 397, «. i. If 
it was more numerous than in 1782 
the dinner was less costly; for 80 
guests at 8^. each would amount to 
£y2y whereas in 1 782 the dinner cost 
£^2y which, at the same charge, 
would give 105 guests. Ante^ ii. 250, 
n, 3. 

thousand 



Aetat. 78.] 



To Mrs. Tkrale. 



293 



thousand eight hundred spectators '. Supposing the shew open 
ten hours, and the spectators staying one with another each an 
hour, the rooms never had fewer than three hundred and eighty 
j ustling against each other. Poor Lowe met some discouragement, 
but I interposed for him, and prevailed '. 

Mr. Barry's exhibition was opened the same day, and a book 
is published to recommend it, which, if you read it, you will find 
decorated with some satirical pictures of Sir Joshua Reynolds 
and others. I have not escaped. You must however think with 
some esteem of Barry for the comprehension of his design ^. 

I am. Madam, 
Your, &c., 

Sam : Johnson. 



' The first Exhibition was held in 
1769, and w^ kept open for a month. 
The receipts at the door were just 
short of ;^7oo. Leslie and Taylor's 
Reynolds f i. 321. Two years later 
they amounted to ;^ii25. lb, i. 405. 

' Lowe's picture was refused ad- 
mission, but Johnson wrote to Rey- 
nolds and to Barry in his behalf, and 
it was admitted. It was hung how- 
ever in an empty room. According 
to Northcote * it was execrable be- 
yond belief.' Li/gy iv. 201, and North- 
cote's Reynolds, ii. 141. 

^ Barry had spent many years in 
decorating the great room of the 
Society of Arts, * living chiefly on oat- 
meal porridge.' Leslie and Taylor's 
Reynolds, ii. 179, 397. It was these 
decorations that he now exhibited. 
His book was entitled, An account 
of a Series of Pictures in the Great 
Room of the Society of Arts, at the 
Adeiphi, Horace Walpole writing of 
it on May 11, says: — * Barry has 
expounded all in a book which does 
not want sense, though full of passion 
and self, and vulgarisms and vanity.' 
Letters, viii. 366. In one passage 
Barry praises Johnson : — * My ad- 
miration,' he writes, 'of the genius 
and abilities of this great master of 



morality. Dr. Johnson, cannot be 
more than it is ; but my estimation 
of his literary abilities is next to 
nothing when compared with my 
reverence for his consistent, manly, 
and well-spent life— so long a writer 
in such a town as London, and 
through many vicissitudes, without 
ever being betrayed into a single 
meanness that at this day he might 
be ashamed to avow.' Barry's Works^ 
ed. 1809, ii. 339. The passage in 
which Johnson ' has not escaped ' is, 
I believe, the following, which comes 
in the midst of an insolent attack on 
Reynolds : — * The affluence which 
may arise from the vogue for making 
portraits may by little necessary arts 
and industrious puffing be made to fill 
up for the moment the litde minds 
of the thoughtless rabble, whether of 
the polite or vulgar sort, or both, and 
will even help to confound matters 
still further, and give our names a 
consequence with some of those dis- 
pensers of fame, the book-makers ; 
who, however knowing in what they 
may have really studied, can, with a 
very few exceptions, hardly be con- 
sidered for their knowledge of the arts 
as in anything differing from the mere 
herd.' lb, p. 309. See Life^ iv. 224. 

To 



^ammr . 



J32i.^ 







ncs: 
Z 2ri-x -vTttnxnx 



:2srcL za" isxant tot :nY •i^iu^'S^ 



:n 



m ^umiis.'' mirTT £i 



rnrnrrrTT 



r^r <: 



T^ r VL_ 



V/i*a v:il icL xr test liutsi -mesr iif jnuirt ir :mr-' rjsc -rinci 
irA9i*yf^ -5 inr ncrt iisTL -m^-rrrr 3e ^2£nec:E'.i> 

Jis^^ir :iie irci i xjirrrm a: it ^C^s^isn :i I^fiimf . I 



•^r 



- L 



^<i*fil t2ilj« 111 "'^nnwniT nt 
<¥»«mnq %f 'tus t;«ir aic y^rnrris vTxar 



' ^/:t ^u* jiJir -It 'Jit -:ir»ft ta.7^ 
^«»r.Hr<ii7 Vfis? I, Jii linen ac Xii 



Twiir am. "rnnna — ir ^nun ic 
s He. H:s ^-gnr^ ssssns 2: 

A2 IRC 111 -pi^xL liiTT zn: j&rimi^ ^ 
iizcr "-oisrs imr ieser 
■c ' > ■'! i T n"um i--Kr- nw iznt Jt nn 



- i.ii» r 



r.2sizc5 ITT ace ^ 



Aetat. 73.] 



To Mr. and Miss Wilkes. 



295 



have a charitable office to propose to him. Is he Knight or 
Baronet'? 

My present circle of enjoyment is as narrow for me as the 
Circus ' for Mrs. Montague. When I first settled in this neigh- 
bourhood I had Richardson and Lawrence, and Mrs. Allen 
at hand ^ I had Mrs. Williams, then no bad companion, and 
Levet for a long time always to be had. If I now go out I must 
go far for company, and at last come back to two sick and dis- 
contented women, who can hardly talk, if they had any thing 
to say, and whose hatred of each other makes one great exercise 
of their faculties ^ 

But, with all these evils, positive and privative, my health in 
its present humour promises to mend, and I, in my present 
humour, promise to take care of it, and if we both keep our 
words, we may yet have a brush at the cobwebs in the sky. 

Let my dear loves write to me, and do you write often your- 
self to. 

Dear Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 



840. 

To Mr. and Miss Wilkes ^ j^^y 34, 1783. 
Mr. Johnson returns thanks to Mr. and Miss Wilkes, for their 
kind invitation ; but he is engaged for Tuesday to Sir Joshua 
Reynolds, and for Wednesday to Mr. Paradise. 



' Sir Richard Musgrave, an Irish 
Baronet, who had succeeded to the 
title on December 2, 1782. Debrett's 
New Peerage^ ed. 1820, ii. 1425. 
Miss Bumey describes him as ' a 
caricature of Mr. Boswell, who is a 
caricature of all other of Dr. Johnson's 
admirers.' She gives a very amusing 
account of him. Mme. D*Arblay*s 
Diary ^ ii. 84. Sec ante^ i. 399. 

' The Circus at Bath, no doubt. 

^ Richardson the novelist lived in 
Salisbury Court, now known as Salis- 
bury Square. Mrs. Allen was, no 



doubt, the wife of Johnson's landlord 
and next neighbour. 

^ Mrs. Williams and Mrs. Des- 
moulins. See post^ p. 309, for the 
same melanclioly complaints. 

' First published in Almon*s Cor- 
respondence of John Wilkes ^tA, 1805, 
iv. 321. 

Boswell had written to Wilkes on 
May 21 : — * Mr. Boswell's compli- 
ments to Mr. Wilkes. He rejoices 
to find he is so much better as to be 
abroad. He finds that it would not 
be unpleasant to Dr. Johnson to dine 

To 



296 



To the Reverend Dr. Hamilton. [a.d. xtss. 



841. 

To THE Right Honourable William Windham. 
London, May 31, 1783. Published in the Life^ iv. 227. 

842. 

To Sir Joshua Reynolds. 
[London], June 2, 1783. Published in the Life^ iv. 227. 

848. 

To 



June 2, 1783. 

In Messrs. Sotheby and Co.'s Auction Catalogue of Nov. 27, 1889, 
Lot 98 is a Letter of Johnson, one page quarto, dated June 2, 1783, 
* ordering that a set of Ramblers should be delivered to the bearer * '. 

To THE Reverend. Dr. Hamilton '. 

Reverend Sir, Bolt Court, June 4, 1783. 

Be pleased to excuse this application from a stranger in 
favour of one who has very little ability to speak for herself. 
The unhappy woman who waits on you with this, has been 



at Mr. Wilkes's. The thing would be 
so curiously benignant, it were a pity 
it should not take place. Nobody 
but Mr. Boswell should be asked to 
meet the doctor. Mr. Boswell goes 
for Scotland on Friday the 30th. If 
then a card were sent to the doctor 
on Monday, Tuesday or Wednesday, 
without delay, it is to be hoped he 
would be fixed ; and notice will be 
sent to Mr. Boswell.' lb, p. 314. 

Four days later he sent the fol- 
lowing note ; — * South Audley Street, 
25th May, 1783. Mr. Boswell pre- 
sents his best compliments to Mr. 
and Miss Wilkes: encloses Dr. 
Johnson's answer ; and regrets much 
that so agreeable a meeting must be 
deferred till next year, as Mr. Bos- 
well is to set out for Scotland in a 
few days. Hopes Mr. Wilkes will 



write to him there.* lb, p. 321. 

It is strange that Boswell makes 
no mention of this invitation in the 
Life, He may have thought that it 
was not worthy of Johnson to be 
willing to visit a man so infamous 
as Wilkes. 

' Perhaps Johnson had met some 
other old acquaintance, who, like 
his fellow-collegian, Oliver Edwards, 
' had been told that he had written a 
very pretty book called The Rambler. 
"I was unwilling," said Johnson, 
"that he should leave the world in 
total darkness, and sent him a set." ' 
Ufe^ iv. 90. 

' First published in Croker's Bos^ 
well, page 757. 

Dr. Hamilton was Vicar of St. 
Martin's in the Fields. 

known 



Aetot. 73.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



297 



known to me many years. She is the daughter of a clergyman 
of Leicestershire, who by an unhappy marriage is reduced to 
solicit a refuge in the workhouse of your parish, to which she has 
a claim by her husband's settlement \ 

Her case admits of little deliberation ; she is turned out of her 
lodging into the street. What my condition allows me to do 
for her I have already done, and having no friend, she can have 
recourse only to the parish. 

I am, reverend Sir, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

846. 

To Mrs. Thrale*. 

Dear Madam, London, June 5, 1783. 

Why do you write so seldom ? I was very glad of your 
letter. You were used formerly to write more, when I know not 
why you should [have] had much more to say. Do not please 
yourself with showing me that you can forget me, who do not 
forget you. 

Mr. Desmoulins' account of my health rather wants confirma- 
tion. But complaints are useless. 

I have, by the migration of one of my ladies, more peace at 
home ; but I remember an old savage chief that says of the 
Romans with great indignation — ubi solitudinem Jaciunt, pacem 
appellant ^. 

Mr. was not calamity, it was his sister, to whom I am 

afraid the term is now strictly applicable, for she seems to have 
fallen some way into obscurity; I am afraid by a palsy*. 



' The law of settlement is the law 
which determines the parish to which 
a pauper belongs, where he has the 
right to be maintained, and which 
gives the power of removing him to 
it. Penny Cyclo.^ ed. 1840, xviii. 400. 
* A new settlement may be acquired 
several ways, as by marriage. For 
a woman, marrying a man that is 
settled in another parish, changes 
her own settlement.* Blackstone's 



Commentaries y cd. 1775, L 363. 

■ Piozzi Letters^ ii. 259. 

^ It was Mrs. DesmouUns who had 
gone away. Ltfe^ iv. 233. The 
quotation is from The Agricola of 
Tacitus, c. XXX. 

* Johnson, posty p. 310, refers to 
' new calamities,' and mentions a lady 
left * very slenderly supplied.' It is 
possible that this letter is misplaced 
by Mrs. Piozzi. 

Whence 



298 



To Mrs, Thrale. 



[A.D.178S. 



Whence your pity arises for the thief that has made the hang- 
man idle, I cannot discover. I am sorry indeed for every suicide, 
but I suppose he would have gone to the gallows without being 
lamented '. 

You will soon see that Miss H , if she finds countenance, 

and gets scholars, will conquer her vexations. Is not Susy like- 
wise one of her pupils ? I owe Susy a letter, which I purpose to 
pay next time. 

I can tell you of no new thing in town, but Dr. Maxwel*, 
whose lady is by ill health detained with two little babies at 
Bath. 

You give a cheerful account of your way of life. I hope you 
will settle into tranquillity. 

When I can repay you such a narrative of my felicity, you 

shall see description. 

I am, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 



846. 

To Mrs. Thrale^ 

Dear Madam, London, June 13, 1783. 

Yesterday were brought hither two parcels directed to Mrs, 
Thrale^ to the care of Dr. Johnson, By what the touch can 
discover, they contain something of which cloaths are made ; and 
I suspect them to be Musgrave's* long-expected present. You 
will order them to be called for, or let me know whither I shall 
send them. 

Crutchley has had the gout, but is abroad again. Seward 
called on me yesterday. He is going only for a few weeks ; first 
to Paris, and then to Flanders, to contemplate the pictures of 



' It is possible, though not likely, 
that Johnson refers to PoweU, the 
Cashier in the Army Pay Office, in 
whose accounts a g^eat deficiency 
had been discovered. He cut his 
throat towards the end of May. It 
does not seem likely that he would 
have been tried on a capital charge. 
His accomplice Bembridge was sen- 



tenced to pay a fine of ;£2,6oo, and 
to be imprisoned for six months. 
Walpole's Letters^ viii. 371, and 
Ann, Reg.y 1783, i. 221. 

" Perhaps his friend the Rev. Dr. 
Maxwell, who supplied Boswell with 
some Collectanea, Ufe^ \\, 116. 

^ Piozzi Letters^ ii. 262. 

^ The Irish baronet. Ante^ ii. 294. 

Claude 



▲etat. 78.] 



To Mrs. Tkrale. 



299 



Claude Loraine ; and he asked me if that was not as good a way 
as any of spending time — that time which returns no more — of 
which however a great part seems to be very foolishly spent, even 
by the wisest and the best*. 

That time at least is not lost in which the evik of life are* 
relieved, and therefore the moments which you bestow on Miss 
H are properly employed. She seems to make an un- 
common impression upon you. What has she done or suffered 
out of the common course of things? I love a little secret 
history. 

Poor Dr. Lawrence and his youngest son died almost on the 
same day". 

Mrs. Dobson, the directress of rational conversation, did not 
translate Petrarch, but epitomised a very bulky French Life of 
Petrarch. She translated, I think, the Memoirs of D'Aubign^l 

Your last letter was very pleasing ; it expressed kindness to 
me, and some degree of placid acquiescence in your present mode 
of life, which is, I think, the best which is at present within your 
reach. 

My powers and attention have for a long time been almost 
wholly employed upon my health, I hope not wholly without 
success, but solitude is very tedious. 

I am. Madam, 
Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 



' Of Johnson's opinion of art see 

Lifey i. 363» «• 3- 

' According to the GentlematCs 
Magazine^ 1 783, p. 542, Dr. Lawrence 
died at Canterbury on June 13, his 
second son died on the 15th. But, 
if we may trust Munk's Roll of the 
College of Physicians^ ii. 153, on the 
father's tomb-stone June 6 is given 
as the day of his death. If he died 
on June 13 or his son on the 15th 
Johnson^s letter must be misdated. 

^ Susanna Dobson's Life of 
Petrarch was reviewed in the Gentle- 
man^ s Magazine for 1775, PP* '^» 
240. Miss Burney in 1780 describes 



this lady as ' exhausting her store of 
compliments on her, and then quitting 
her to go and give another dose of 
flummery to Mrs. Thrale.' She 
boasted that ' she had made ;^400 of 
her Petrarca* Mme. D'Arblay's 
Diaryy i. 352. An anonymous LAfe 
of nAubign/ is reviewed in the 
Gentleman* s Magazine for 1772, p. 
281. She was the wife of Dr. Matthew 
Dobson, a Liverpool physician. Mrs. 
Thrale says that during this visit to 
Bath * Dr. Dobson from Liverpool ' 
was one of her * medical advisers.' . . . 
Hayward's PioMzi^ i. 272. 

To 



300 



To Mrs. Tkrale. 



[A.D. 1788. 



847. 

To Edmund Allen. 
[London], June 17, 1783. Published in the Lifi, iv. 228. 

848. 
To THE Reverend Dr. Taylor. 
[London], June 17, 1783. Published in the Life^ iv. 228. 

849. 

To Thomas Davies. 
[London], June 18, 1783. Published in the Life^ iv. 231. 

860. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 

Dear Madam, Bolt-comt, Fleet-street, June 19, 1783. 

I am sitting down in no cheerful solitude to write a narrative 
which would once have affected you with tenderness and sorrow, 
but which you will perhaps pass over now with the careless 
glance of frigid indifference. For this diminution of regard how- 
ever, I know not whether I ought to blame you, who may have 
reasons which I cannot know, and I do not blame myself, who 
have for a great part of human life done you what good I could, 
and have never done you evil. 

I had been disordered in the usual way, and had been relieved 
by the usual methods, by opium and catharticks, but had rather 
lessened my dose of opium. 

On Monday the 16th I sat for my picture', and walked a con- 
siderable way with little inconvenience. In the afternoon and 
evening I felt myself light and easy, and began to plan schemes 
of life\ Thus I went to bed, and in a short time waked and sat 



* Piozzi Letters y ii. 268. 

The greater part of this Letter is 
given by Boswell in the Life^ iv. 229. 
There too are given other letters in 
which Johnson describes the stroke 
of palsy which came upon him in the 
morning of June 17. 

' No doubt to Miss Reynolds. 
Post, p. 327. 



^ On his birthday in 1764 he re- 
corded in his Diary : — * I have now 
spent fifty-five years in resolving; 
having, from the earliest time almost 
that I can remember, been forming 
schemes of a better life. I have done 
nothing.* Pr,and Med.,^,^Z. Ante^ 
i. 250, n. 4. 

up, 



Aetat. 78.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



.^oi 



up, as has been long my custom, when I felt a confusion and 
indistinctness in my head, which lasted I suppose about half 
a minute ; I was alarmed, and prayed God, that howeve r he 
might afflict my body, he would spare my understanding. This 
prayer, that I might try the integrity of my faculties, I made in 
Latin verse '. The lines were not very good, but I knew them 
not to be very good : I made them easily, and concluded myself 
to be unimpaired in my faculties. 

Soon after I perceived that I had suffered a paralytick stroke, 
and that my speech was taken from me. I had no pain, and so 
little dejection in this dreadful state, that I wondered at my own 
apathy, and considered that perhaps death itself when it should 
come would excite less horrour than seems now to attend it. 

In order to rouse the vocal organs I took two drams. Wine 
has been celebrated for the production of eloquence. I put 
myself into violent motion, and I think repeated it ; but all was 
vain. I then went to bed, and, strange as it may seem, I think, 
slept. When I saw light, it was time to contrive what I should 
do. Though God stopped my speech he left me my hand, 
I enjoyed a mercy which was not granted to my dear friend 
Lawrence ", who now perhaps overlooks me as I am writing, and 
rejoices that I have what he wanted. My first note was neces- 
sarily to my servant, who came in talking, and could not imme- 
diately comprehend why he should read what I put into his 
hands. 

I then wrote a card to Mr. Allen ^ that I might have a discreet 
friend at hand to act as occasion should require. In penning this 
note I had some difficulty, my hand, I knew not how nor why, 
made wrong letters. I then wrote to Dr. Taylor* to come to me. 



I i 



Nocte, inter i6et 17 Junii, 1783. 
Summe pater, quodcunque tuum de 
corpore Numen 
Hoc statuat, precibus Christus 
adesse velit : 
Ingenio parcas, nee sit mihi culpa 
rogasse, 
Qua solum potero parte placere 
tibi.' 

WorkSyX, 159. 



■ The palsy had deprived Dr. 
Lawrence of the power of writing 
some time before his death. Life^ 
iv. 144, /I. 3. 

^ His landlord and next neighbour. 
Sec Life^ iv. 228, for the letter. 

* This is one of the very few letters 
which Taylor allowed Boswell to 
publish. lb. The following exact 
reprint of it is given by Professor 

and 



302 



To Mrs, Thrale. 



[A.D. 1783. 



and bring Dr. Heberden, and I sent to Dr. Brocklesby, who is 
my neighbour'. My physicians are very friendly and very disin- 
terested, and give me great hopes, but you may imagine my 
situation. I have so far recovered my vocal powers, as to repeat 
the Lord's Prayer with no very imperfect articulation. My 

memory, I hope, yet remains as it was ; but such an attack 

« 

produces solicitude for the safety of every faculty. 

How this will be received by you I know not. I hope you 
will sympathise with me ; but perhaps 

My mistress gracious, mild, and good, 
Cries! Is he dumb? Tis time he shou'd*. 

But can this be possible ? I hope it cannot. I hope that what. 



Mayor in Notes and Queries^ 6th 
S. V. 481. *The repetitions be- 
tray,' he says, 'the writer's agita- 
tion ' : — 

Dear Sir,— It has pleased God 
by a paralytick stroke in the night to 
deprive me of speech. 

I am very desirous of D' Heber- 
den [*s] assistance as 1 think my case 
is not past remedy. Let me see 
you as soon as it is possible. Bring 
D' Heberden with you if you can, 
but come yourself, at all events. I 
am glad you are so well, when when 
\sic\ I am so dreadfully attacked. 

I think that by a speedy applica- 
tion of stimulants much may be done. 
I question if a a \sic\ vomit vigorous 
and rough would not rouse the organs 
of speech to action. 

As it is too early to send I will try 
to recollect what I can that can be 
suspected to have brough[t] on this 
dreadful distress. 

I have been accustomed to bleed 
frequently for an asthmatick com- 
plaint, but have forbom for some 
time by D' Pepys's persuasion, who 
perceived my legs beginning to swell. 

I sometimes alleviate a painful, or 
more properly an oppressive constric- 
tion of my chest by opiates, and have 



lately taken opium frequently, but the 
last, or two last times in smaller 
quantities. My largest dose is three 
grains, and last night I took but two. 

You will suggest these thing[s], 
and they are all that I can call to 
mind, to D*" Heberden. 
I am, &c., 

Sam : Johnson. 

June 17, 1783. 

D' Brocklesby will be with me to 
meet D' Heberden, and I shall have 
previously make master of the case 
as well as I can. 

To the Re^^ D^ Taylor. 

' In the British Museum in the 
Grace Collection, xi. 60, is a picture 
of* Dr. Heberden's house on the south 
side of Pall Mall ; the only freehold 
in Pall Mall, the site of the house 
given to Nell Gwynne by King 
Charles II.' Brocklesby in 1788, 
and probably at this time too, was 
living in Norfolk Street, Strand. 
Burke's Correspondence^ iii. ^Z, 

' * The queen so gracious, mild, and 
good 
Cries, " Is he gone ? 'tis time he 
should." ' 

On the Death of Dr. Swift, Swift's 
Works ^ ed. 1803, xi. 245. 

when 



Aeut. 78.] To Mrs. Thrale. 303 

when I could speak, I spoke of you, and to you, will be in 
a sober and serious hour remembered by you' ; and surely it 
cannot be remembered but with some degree of kindness. I have 
loved you with virtuous affection ; I have honoured you with 
sincere esteem. Let not all our endearments be forgotten, but 
let me have in this great distress your pity and your prayers. 
You see I yet turn to you with my complaints as a settled and 
unalienable friend ; do not, do not drive me from you, for I have 
not deserved either neglect or hatred. 

To the girls, who do not write often, for Susy has written only 
once, and Miss Thrale' owes me a letter, I earnestly recommend, 
as their guardian and friend, that they remember their Creator 
in the days of their youths 

I suppose you may wish to know how my disease is treated by 
the physicians. They put a blister upon my back, and two from 
my ear to my throat, one on a side. The blister on the back has 
done little, and those on the throat have not risen. I bullied 
and bounced, (it sticks to our last sand^) and compelled the 
apothecary to make his salve according to the Edinburgh Dis- 
pensatory^, that it might adhere better. I have two on now of 
my own prescription. They likewise give me salt of hartshorn, 
which I take with no great confidence, but am satisfied that what 
can be done is done for me. 

God I give me comfort and confidence in Thee : forgive my 
sins; and if it be Thy good pleasure, relieve my diseases for 
Jesus Christ's sake. Amen. 

1 am almost ashamed of this querulous letter, but now it is 

written, let it go. 

I am, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

' Ante^ ii. 292, n, 3. ' Time that on all things lays his 

' He does not call her Quecney. lenient hand 

^ EccUsiasUs, xii. i. Yet tames not this ; it sticks to 

^ Johnson says that his old habit our last sand.' 

of bullying and bouncing will stick s j^ the Gentleman* s Magazine for 

to him till the last sand is running 1747, P- 54B, is advertised The Edin- 

out. * It sticks to our last sand ' is a burgh Phamuuopceia^ edited by W. 

quotation from Pope's Moral Essays y Lewis, M.B. 
i. 224 :— 

To 



304 



To Mrs. Tkrale. 



[A.D. 178S. 



861. 
To Mrs. Thrale '. 

Dearest Madam, London, June 20, 1783. 

I think to send you for some time a regular diary. You 
will forgive the gross images which disease must necessarily 
present Dr. Lawrence said, that medical treatises should be 
always in Latin*. 

The two vesicatories^ which I procured with so much trouble 
did not perform well, for, being applied to the lower part of the 
fauces, a part always in motion, their adhesion was continually 
broken. The back, I hear, is very properly flayed. 

I have now healing application to the cheeks, and have my 
head covered with one formidable diffusion of cantharides ^ from 
which Dr. Heberden assures me that experience promises great 
effects. He told me likewise, that my utterance has been im- 
proved since yesterday, of which, however, I was less certain ; 
though doubtless they who see me at intervals can best judge. 

I never had any distortion of the countenance, but what Dr. 
Brocklesby called a little prolapsus, which went away the second 
day. 

I was this day directed to eat flesh, and I dined very copiously 
upon roasted lamb and boiled pease : I then went to sleep in 
a chair, and when I waked, I found Dr. Brocklesby sitting by 
me, and fell to talking with him in such a manner as made me 
glad, and, I hope, made me thankful. The Doctor fell to repeat- 
ing JuvenaFs ninth satire ; but I let him see that the province 
was mine ^ 

I am to take wine to-night, and hope it will do me good. 

I am, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 



' Piozzi Letters^ ii. 273. 

' Mrs. Thrale, if I understand one 
of her letters rightly, was not too 
nice to make a coarse medical joke 
to Dr. Lawrence. Mme. D'Arblay*s 
Diary ^ ii. 123. 

' * Vesicatory, A blistering medi- 
cine.* Johnson's Dictionary, 

* ' Cantharides, Spanish flies used 



to raise blisters.* lb. 

' Eighteen months later Dr. 
Brocklesby, when attending John- 
son on his death-bed, and talking on 
the subject of prayer, * repeated from 
Juvenal, — 
** Orandum est^ ut sit mens sana in 

corpore sano^ 
and so on to the end of the tenth 

To 



Aetat.78.] To Mrs. Tkrale. 305 



862. 

To Mauritius Lowe'. 
Sir, Friday, June 20, 1783. 

You know, I suppose, that a sudden illness makes it imprac- 
ticable to me to wait on Mr. Barry, and the time is short. If it 
be your opinion that the end can be obtained by writing, I am 
very willing to write, and, perhaps, it may do as well ; it is, at 
least, all that can be expected at present from, 

Sir, 

Your most humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 

If you would have me write, come to me : I order your 
admission. 

868. 

To Mrs. Thrale». 
Dear Madam, London, June 21, 1783. 

I continue my journal. When I went to bed last night, 
I found the new covering of my head uneasy, not painful, rather 
too warm. I had however a comfortable and placid night. My 
physicians this morning thought my amendment not inconsider- 
able; and my friends who visited me said, that my look was 
spritely and cheerful. Nobody has shown more affection than 
Paradise ^. Langton * and he were with me a long time to-day. 
I was almost tired. 

satire ; but in running it quickly over, ii. 66, 293, and for James Barry ante^ 

he happened, in the line, ii. 293. Johnson in the midst of his 

** Qui spaiium vita extretnum inter own troubles does not forget his poor 

munera fionatj^ friend, 

to pronounce supretnum for ex- * Piozzi Letters^ ii. 275. 

tremutn ; at which Johnson's critical ^ Johnson in a letter to him written 

ear instantly took offence, and dis- on October 20, 1784, speaks of his 

coursing vehemently on the un- great and constant kindness to him. 

metrical effect of such a lapse, he Life^ iv. 364. 

shewed himself as full as ever of * Langton the following spring 

the spirit of the gnunmarian.' Life^ ' took a little lodging in Fleet Street 

iv. 401. in order to be near, to devote himself 

' First published in Croker's Bos- to Dr. Johnson.* Hannah More's 

welly page 735. Memoirs^ i. 310. 

For Mauritius Lowe see a$itey 

VOL. n. X When 



3o6 



To Mrs, Thrale. 



rA.D. 178S. 



When my friends were gone I took another liberal dinner, such 
as my physicians recommended, and slept after it, but without 
such evident advantage as was the effect of yesterday's siesta* 
Perhaps the sleep was not quite so sound, for I am harassed by 
a very disagreeable operation of the cantharides, which I am 
endeavouring to control by copious dilution. 

My disorders are in other respects less than usual ; my disease, 
whatever it was, seems collected into this one dreadful effect. 
My breath is free ; the constrictions of the chest are suspended, 
and my nights pass without oppression. 

To-day I received a letter of consolation and encouragement 
from an unknown hand, without a name, kindly and piously, 
though not enthusiastically written '. 

I had just now from Mr. Pepys a message, enquiring in your 
name after my health, of this I can give no account'. 

I am, Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

864. 

To Mrs. Thrale^ 
Dear Madam, London, June 23, 1783. 

I thank you for your kind letter, and will continue my 

diary. On the night of the aist I had very little rest, being kept 

awake by an effect of the cantharides, not indeed formidable, but 

very tiresome and painful. On the 1%A the physicians released 



' Johnson, I think, uses enthusi- 
asticcUly in the sense in which he 
defines enthusiasm in his Diction- 
ary : — * A vain belief of private revela- 
tion ; a vain confidence of divine 
favour or communication.' He quotes 
from Locke : — * Enthusiasm is 
founded neither on reason nor divine 
revelation, but rises from the conceits 
of a warmed or overweening brain.' 
Hawkins tells how after Johnson's 
death he found among his papers 
another letter 'from an unknown 
hand ' not of consolation but reproof. 
It pointed out ' his evil habits in con- 



versation, which made his acquaint- 
ance shunned. It was such a letter 
as many a one, on the receipt of it, 
would have destroyed. On the con- 
trary Johnson placed it in his bureau 
in a situation so obvious that it might 
look him in the face.' Hawkins's 
Johnson^ p. 601, note. 

' He cannot, that is to say, under- 
stand why Mr. Pepys who was in 
London should make such an enquiry 
in the name of Mrs. Thrale who was 
in Bath and in constant correspond- 
ence with him. 

' Piozzi Letters, ii. 277. 

me 



Aetat. 78.] To Mrs. Thralc. 307 

me from the salts of hartshorn. The cantharides continued their 
persecution, but I was set free from it at night. I had however 
not much sleep, but I hope for more to-night. The vesications 
on my back and face are healing, and only that on my head 
continues to operate. 

My friends tell me that my power of utterance improves daily, 
and Dr. Heberden declares that he hopes to find me almost well 
to-morrow. 

Palsies are more common than I thought I have been visited 
by four friends who have had each a stroke, and one of them 
two. 

Your oflfer, dear Madam, of coming to me, is charmii^ly kind ; 
but I will lay up for future use, and then let it not be considered 
as obsolete ; a time of dereliction* may come, when I may have 
hardly any other friend, but in the present exigency I cannot 
name one who has been deficient in civility or attention. What 
man can do for man has been done for me. Write to me very 
often 

I am. Madam, 

Your, &c, 

Sam: Johnson. 

866. 

To Mrs. TnRALEf. 

Dear Madam, 

The journal now, like other journals, g^ows very dry^ as 
it is not diversified either by operations or events. Less and 
less is done, and, I thank God, less and less is suffered every 
day. The physicians seem to think that little more needs to 
be done. I find that they consulted to-day about sending me 
to Bath, and thought it needless. Dr. Heberden takes leave 
to-morrow. 

This day I watered the garden ^ and did not find the watering- 
pots more heavy than they have hitherto been, and my breath is 
more free. 

' Dereliction Johnson defines as ' Piozzi Letters^ ii. 278. 

'an utter forsaking or leaving; an ' Ante^Kx, 193. 
abandoning.' 

X a Poor 



3o8 



To Mrs. Porter. 



[A.D. 1788. 



Poor dear 



has just been here with a present ^ If it 



ever falls in your way to do him good, let him have your favour. 

Both Queeney's letter and yours gave me to-day great pleasure. 

Think as well and as kindly of me as you can, but do not 

flatter me*. Cool reciprocations of esteem are the great comforts 

of life ; hyperbolical praise only corrupts the tongue of the one, 

and the ear of the other. 

I am, &c., 

London, June 24, 1783. Sam : JOHNSON. 

Your letter has no date. 



866. 

To Mrs. Porter ^ 
Dear Madam, London, June 25, 1783. 

Since the papers have given an account of my illness, it is 
proper that I should give my friends some account of it myself. 

Very early in the morning of the i6th* of this month I per- 
ceived my speech taken from me. When it was light I sat down 
and wrote such directions as appeared proper. Dr. Heberden 
and Dr. Brocklesby were called. Blisters were applied, and 
medicines given. Before night I began to speak with some 
freedom, which has been increasing ever since, so that I have now 
very little impediment in my utterance. Dr. Heberden took his 
leave this morning ^ 

Since I received this stroke I have in other respects been 
better than I was before, and hope yet to have a comfortable 
summer. Let me have your prayers. 



* Perhaps Tom Davies the bank- 
rupt bookseller. Ante^ ii. 64. John- 
son writing to him on the i8th said 
that he was 'strongly affected by 
Mrs. Davies's tenderness.' Ufe^ iv. 
231. When he was dying Davies sent 
him a present of pork. Ih, iv. 413, 
If. 2. The poor fellow may have hoped 
to find a place in Johnson's will. 

* It was in vain that Johnson had 
protested against her habit of flattery. 
Antey i. 220-1, 313, 329. 

' First published in Croker's Bos- 
well^ page 736. 



^ It was not on the i6th, but very 
early in the morning of the 17th that 
he was attacked. 

' Hawkins found the foUowing note 
in Johnson's Diary : — 
' June 16. I went to bed, and, as I 
conceive, about 3 in the 
morning, I had a stroke 
of the palsy. 
17. I sent for Dr. Heberden 
and Dr. Brocklesby. God 
bless them. 
25. Dr. Heberden took leave.' 
Hawkins's /^Airj^ii, p. 558. 

If 



M 



9) 



Aetot. 78.] 



To Mrs, Thrale. 



309 



If writing is not troublesome, let me know whether you are 
pretty well, and how you have passed the winter and spring. 
Make my compliments to all my friends. 

I am, dear Madam, 

Your most humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 

867. 

To Mrs. Thrale '. 

Dearest Madam, London, June 38, 1783. 

Your letter is just such as I desire, and as from you I hope 
always to deserve. 

The black dc^ I hope always to resist, and in time to drive, 
though I am deprived of almost all those that used to help me ^. 
The neighbourhood is impoverished. I had once Richardson 
and Lawrence in my reach. Mrs. Allen is dead. My house has 
lost Levet, a man who took interest in every thing, and therefore 
ready at conversation ^. Mrs. Williams is so weak that she can 
be a companion no longer. When I rise my breakfast is solitary, 
the black dog waits to share it, from breakfast to dinner he con- 
tinues barking, except that Dr. Brocklesby for a little keeps him 
at a distance. Dinner with a sick woman you may venture to 
suppose not much better than solitary \ After dinner, what 
remains but to count the clock, and hope for that sleep which 
I can scarce expect. Night comes at last, and some hours of 
restlessness and confusion bring me again to a day of solitude. 
What shall exclude the black dog from an habitation like this ? 



* Piozzi Letters, ii. 280. 

' For 'the black dog' see ante, 
ii. 73. It was Mrs. Thrale and her 
husband who had saved him from his 
severest fit of depression nearly 
twenty years earlier. Ante,\. 332, n. i, 

^ Johnson alone knew of his merits 
as a converser, for ' he seldom said a 
word while any company was present.' 
Lifiy i. 243. See antey ii. 295. 

* A week later he wrote to Mrs. 
Porter : — * I live now but in a melan- 



choly way. My old friend Mr. Levett 
is dead, who lived with me in the 
house, and was useful and companion* 
able ; Mrs. Desmoulins b gone away ; 
and Mrs. Williams is so much 
decayed, that she can add little to 
another's gratifications. The world 
passes away, and we are passing with 
it ; but there is, doubtless, another 
world, which will endure for ever. 
Let us all fit ourselves for it.' lb. 
iv. 233. 

If 



3IO 



To Mrs, Thrale. 



[A.D. 17B8. 

^ 



If I were a little richer, I would perhaps take some cheerful 
female into the house. 

Your Bath news shews me new calamities. I am afraid Mrs. 

L s ' is left with a numerous family, very slenderly supplied. 

Mrs. Sheward is an old maid, I am afraid, yet sur le pavi"^. 

, if he were well, would be well enough liked ; his daughter 

has powers and knowledge, but no art of making them agreeable. 

I must touch my journal. Last night fresh flies were put to 
my head, and hindered me from sleeping. To-day I fancy myself 
incommoded by heat. 

I have, however, watered the garden both yesterday and to- 
day, just as I watered the laurels in the island ^ 

I am. Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 



868. 
To Mrs. Thrale*. 



Dear Madam, 



Qune 30, 1783.] 



Among those that have enquired after me. Sir Philip^ is 
one ; and Dr. Bumey was one of those who came to see me ^. 
I have had no reason to complain of indifference or n^lect. 
Dick Burney is come home five inches taller ^ 



' John Lewis, Dean of Ossory, 
who had married Johnson*s friend 
Charlotte Cotterel {Ufe^ i. 382), died 
on June 28. Gentleman^ s Magazine, 
1783, p. 628. 

' *Etre sur le pavd, n'avoir point de 
domicile, et fig. n'avoir point de con- 
dition, d'emploi.' Uttrd, 

^ In an island no doubt in the pool 
which Mr. Thrale dug at Streatham. 
Ante, i. 360. Susan Bumey, describ- 
ing her visit to the Thrales in 1779, 
says : — * We strolPd about the sweet 
plantations, and saw the summer- 
house, and Dick's island.' Early 
Diary of Frances Bumey, ii. 259. 

* Piozzi Letters, ii. 282. 

Mrs. Piozzi does not give the date 
of this letter. Johnson says, * ycster- 



*■» 



day I went to church.* His letter to 
Boswell shows that it was on Sunday 
that he went to church. Life, iv. 
232. Sunday was the 29th. 

' Sir Philip Jennings Clerk. Ante^ 
ii. 142. 

* Miss Bumey records in her 
Journal on June 19, that hearing of 
Johnson's illness she and her father 
went instantly to his house. ' He had 
earnestly desired me, when we lived 
so much together at Streatham, to see 
him frequently if he should be ill. He 
saw my father ; but he had medical 
people with him, and could not 
admit me upstairs, but he sent me 
down a most kind message.' Mine. 
D'Arblay's Diary, ii. 269. 

' He was the boy whom Johnson 

Yesterday 



▲etat. 78.] 



To Mrs, Tkrale. 



3.1 1 



Yesterday in the evening I went to church, and have been to- 
day to see the great burning glass, which does more than was 
ever done before by the transmission of the rays, but is not equal 
in power to those which reflect them. It wastes a diamond placed 
in the focus, but causes no diminution of pure gold. Of the rubies 
exposed to its action, one was made more, vivid, the other paler '. 
To see the glass, I climbed up stairs to the garret, and then up 
a ladder to the leads, and talked to the artist rather too long ; 
for my voice, though clear and distinct for a little while, soon 
tires and falters. The organs of speech are yet very feeble, but 
will I hope be by the mercy of God finally restored : at present, 
like any other weak limb, they can endure but little labour at 
once. Would you not have been very sorry for me when I could 
scarcely speak ? 

Fresh cantharides were this morning applied to my head, and 
are to be continued some time longer. If they play me no 
treacherous tricks, they give me very little pain. 

Let me have your kindness and your prayers ; and think on 

me, as on a man who, for a very great portion of your life, 

has done you all the good he could, and desires still to be 

considered. 

Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

869. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 

Dearest Madam, London, July i, 1783. 

This morning I took the air by a ride to Hampstead^, and 



five years or so earlier had accom- 
panied when he first went to Win- 
chester School. Life, iii. 367, and 
Early Diary 0/ Frances Bumey, ii. 
284. 

' In the Gentleman* s Magazine ^ 
for 1774, p. 220, an account is given 
of 'experiments tried with Mr. 
Villette's burning-glass in 1718. A 
diamond lost seven-eighths of its 
weight.* 



' Piosii Letters^ ii. 284. 

^ Hampstead, which is now joined 
to London by an unbroken line of 
houses, is described in 1 761 as 'a 
pleasant village situated near the top 
of a hill about four miles on the 
north-west side of London. On the 
summit of this hill is a heath, which 
is adorned with many gentlemen's 
houses.' Dodsley's London and its 
Environs, iii. 134. It was here that 

this 



312 



To Mrs. Thrale, 



[A.D. 178S. 



this afternoon I dined with the club'. But fresh cantharides 
were this day applied to my head. 

Mr. Cator called on me to-day, and told that he had invited 
you back to Streatham. I shewed the unfitness of your return 
thither, till the neighbourhood should have lost its habits of de- 
predation ", and he seemed to be satisfied. He invited me very 
kindly and cordially to try the air of Beckenham, and pleased me 
very much by his affectionate attention to Miss Vezy. There 
is much good in his character, and much usefulness in his 
knowledge ^. 

Queeney seems now to have forgotten me. Of the different 
appearance of the hills and vallies an account may perhaps be 
given, without the supposition of any prodigy. If she had been 
out and the evening was breezy, the exhalations would rise from 
the low grounds very copiously ; and the wind that swept and 



Johnson in 1749 had brought his sick 
wife for change of air, and it was here 
that he had written most, if not the 
whole, of his Vanity of Human 
Wishes, Lifty i. 192. 

' Miss Bumey records : — * I had 
the satisfaction to hear from Sir 
Joshua that Dr. Johnson had dined 
with him at the Club. I called the 
next morning to congratulate him, 
and found him very gay and very 
good-humoured.' Mme. D'Arblay's 
Diary, ii. 271. In her Memoirs of 
Dr. Bumey y ii. 345, she adds that she 
offered to make his tea. He had 
given her his own large arm-chair 
which was too heavy for her to move 
to the table. * " Sir,'' quoth she, " I 
am in the wrong chair." "It is so 
difficult," cried he with quickness, 
" for anything to be wrong that be- 
longs to you, that it can only be I 
that am in the wrong chair to keep 
you from the right one." ' He kept 
her for two hours, and ' endeavoured 
most earnestly to engage her to stay 
and dine with him and Mrs. Williams.' 

' For Mr. Cator, one of Mr. Thrale's 
executors, see ante^ ii. 128, n, 4. 



The 'habits of depredation' were 
testified to by the capital convicdons. 
At the Surrey Summer Assizes nine 
men were sentenced to death for 
robberies, and at the Old Bailey ' a 
very long and fatiguing session ' was 
brought to a close on August 2 by 
the same sentence passed on twelve 
robbers. Gentleman' sMagazineyij^^^ 
p. 710. Horace Walpole, writing 
on June 20, says that some young 
ladies who were visiting Strawberry 
Hill, on evening coming on, * were 
seized with a panic of highwaymen, 
and wanted to go. I laughed and 
said, I believed there was no danger, 
for that I had not been robbed these 
two years. However I was not quite 
in the right ; they were stopped in 
Knightsbridge by two footpads.* 
Letters y viii. 381. 

^ Boswell quotes this praise of 
Cator and adds : — * Dr. Johnson 
found a cordial solace at that gentle- 
man's seat at Beckenham, in Kent, 
which is indeed one of the finest 
places at which I ever was a guest ; 
and where I find more and more a 
hospitable welcome.' Life, iv. 313. 

cleared 



AeUt. 78.] 



To Mrs, Thrale. 



313 



cleared the hills, would only by its cold condense the vapours of 
the sheltered vallies '. 

Murphy is just gone from me ; he visits me very kindly, and I 
have no unkindness to complain of. 

I am sorry that Sir Philip's' request was not treated with 
more respect, nor can I imagine what has put them so much out 
of humour : I hope their business is prosperous. 

I hope that I recover by degrees, but my nights are restless ; 
and you will suppose the nervous system to be somewhat en- 
feebled. 

I am, Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 



860. 

To Mrs. Thrale ^ 
Dear Madam, London, July 3, 1783. 

Dr. Brocklesby yesterday dismissed the cantharides, and I 
can now find a soft place upon my pillow. Last night was cool, 
and I rested well, and this morning I have been a friend at a 
poetical difficulty '. Here is now a glimpse of day-light again ; 
but how near is the evening — none can tell, and I will not 
prognosticate ; we all know that from none of us it can be far 
distant ; may none of us know this in vain ! 

I went, as I took care to boast, on Tuesday, to the club ^ and 



* Sttposf, p. 320, n, I. 

' Murphy says that he found him 
reading Dr. Watson's Chymistry. 
'Articulating with difficulty he 
said : — " From this book he who 
knows nothing may learn a great 
deal, and he who knows will be 
pleased to find his knowledge recalled 
to his mind in a manner highly 
pleasing." ' Murphy's Life of John- 
soTiy p. 121. 

^ Sir Philip Jennings Clerk. 

* Piozzi Lettersy ii. 286. 

^ Perhaps some author had sought 
his aid. ' I used once,' he said, ' to 
be sadly plagued with a man who 



wrote verses, but who literally had 
no other notion of a verse, but that 
it consisted of ten syllables. Lay 
your knife and your fork^ across your 
plate^ was to him a verse : 
Lay your knife Imd your fork, across 
your pl&te. 
As he wrote a great number of verses, 
he sometimes by chance made good 
ones, though he did not know it.' 
Life^ ii. 51. 

^ At this meeting of the Club the 
father of Lord Palmerston, the prime- 
minister, was proposed, and against 
Johnson's opinion was rejected. lb, 
iv. 232. 

hear 



314 To Mrs. Thrale, [a.d. 1788. 

hear that I was thought to have performed as well as usual. I 
dined on fish, with the wing of a small Turkey chick, and left 
roast beef, goose, and venison pye untouched. I live much on 
peas, and never had them so good, for so long a time, in any year 
that I can remember. 

When do you go to Weymouth ? and why do you go ? only I 
suppose to a new place, and the reason is sufficient to those who 
have no reason to withhold them. 

• • • • knows well enough how to live on four hundred a year, 
but where is he to have it? Had • • • • any thing of his own 
unsettled ? 

I am glad that Mrs. Sheward talks of me, and loves me, and 
have in this still scene of life g^at comfort in reflecting that I 
have given very few reason to hate me ' : I hope scarcely any 
man has known me closely but for his benefit, or cursorily but 
to his innocent entertainment. Tell me, you that know me best, 
whether this be true, that according to your answer I may con- 
tinue my practice, or try to mend it. 

Along with your kind letter yesterday came one likewise very 

kind from the Astons at Lichfield ; but I do not know whether, 

as the summer is so far advanced, I shall travel so far, though I 

am not without hopes that frequent change of air may fortify me 

against the winter, which has been, in modern phrase, of late 

years very inimical'^ to, 

Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

861. 

To James Boswell. 
London, July 3, 1783. Published in the LifCy iv. 231. 

' Johnson, who had seen Chester- hate you more and longer than if you 

field's Letters to his Son^ might have tell him plainly that you think him a 

thought differently had his eye fallen rogue.' Vol. ii. p. 58. See the Lifef 

on the passage where the writer iv. 280, for the comical scene when 

says : — ' Men are much more un- Langton pointed out to Johnson that 

willing to have their weaknesses and he thought him deficient in Christian 

their imperfections known than their charity, and Johnson * belaboured his 

crimes ; and if you hint to a man confessor.' 

that you think him silly, ignorant, ' Inimical is not in Johnson's 

or even ill-bred, or awkward, he will Dictionary, 

To 



Aetat. 73.] 



To Mrs, Thrale. 



315 



862. 

To Mrs. Porter. 
linden, July 5, 1783. Published in the Life^ iv. 232. 



868. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 
Dear Madam, London, July 5, 1783. 

That Dr. • • • •' is offended I am very sorry, but if the same 
state of things should recur, I could not do better. Dr. Brocklesby 
is, you know, my neighbour, and could be ready at call ; he had 
for some time very diligently solicited my friendship : I depended 
much upon the skill of Dr. Heberden, and him I had seen lately 
at Brocklesby 's. Heberden I could not bear to miss, Brocklesby 
could not decently be missed, and to call three, had made me 
ridiculous by the appearance of self-importance. Mine was one 
of those unhappy cases in which something must be wrong. I 
can only be sorry. 

I have now no Doctor, but am left to shift for myself as op- 
portunity shall serve. I am going next week with • • • • to 
• • • • ^, where I expect not to stay long. Eight children in a 
small house will probably make a chorus not very diverting. My 
purpose is to change the air frequently this summer. 

Of the imitation of my stile, in a criticism on Gray's Church- 
yard, I forgot to make mention. The author is, I believe, utterly 
unknown, for Mr. Steevens cannot hunt him out ^. I know little 
of it, for though it was sent me I never cut the leaves open. I 
had a letter with it representing it to me as my own work ; in 



* Piossi Letters J il 288. 

' Probably either Pepys or Jebb. 
' With Langton to Rodiester. 
Ante^ ii. 164, n. 2, axid post, p. 317. 

* The book was entitled A Criti- 
cism on Gray's Elegy in a Country 
Churchyard, and the author was John 
Young, a Glasgow Professor. Li/ey 
iv. 392. Mme. D'Arblay describes 
him as ' a man whose learning sits 
upon him far lighter than Mr. 



Broome's [her new brother-in-law]. 
He has as much native humour as he 
has acquired erudition ; he has a face 
that looks all honesty and kindness, 
and manners gentle and humble. I 
had expected a sharp, though amus- 
ing, satirist, from his very comic but 
sarcastic imitation of Dr. Johnson's 
Lives* Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, 
vi. 194. 

such 



3 1 6 To Miss Stisanna Thrale, [a.d. i788. 

such an account to the publick there may be humour, but to 
myself it was neither serious nor comical. I suspect the writer 
to be wrongheaded ; as to the noise which it makes I have never 
heard it, and am inclined to believe that few attacks either of 
ridicule or invective make much noise, but by the help of those 
that they provoke '. 

I think Queeney's silence has something either of laziness or 
unkindness ; and I wish her free from both, for both are very 
unamiable, and will both increase by indulgence. Susy is I be- 
lieve at a loss for matter. I shall be glad to see pretty Sophy's 
production. 

I hope I still continue mending. My organs are yet feeble. 

I am, Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

864. 

To Miss Susanna THRALE^ 

Dearest Miss Susy, [About Julys, 1783.] 

When you favoured me with your letter, you seemed to be 
in want of materials to fill it, having met with no great adventures 
either of peril or delight, nor done or suffered any thing out of 
the common course of life. 

When you have lived longer, and considered more, you will 
find the common course of life very fertile of observation and 
reflection. Upon the common course of life must our thoughts 
and our conversation be generally employed. Our general course 
of life must denominate us wise or foolish ; happy or miserable : 
if it is well regulated we pass on prosperously and smoothly; as 
it is neglected we live in embarrassment, perplexity, and un- 
easiness. 

Your time, my love, passes, I suppose, in devotion, reading, 
work, and company. Of your devotions, in which I earnestly 
advise you to be very punctual, you may not perhaps think it 
proper to give me an account ; and of work, unless I understood 

* See Lifsy ii. 6i, n, 4, for parallel ' Piozzi Letters^ ii. 290. 

passages from Johnson and other For Susanna Thrale see ante^ i. 

authors. 354 ; ii* 44* 

it 



Aetat. 78.] To Mrs. Tkralc. 317 



it better, it will be of no great use to say much ; but books and 

company will always supply you with materials for your letters 

to me, as I shall always be pleased to know what you are readings 

and with what you are pleased ; and shall take great delight in 

knowing what impression new modes or new characters make 

upon you, and to observe with what attention you distinguish 

the tempers, dispositions, and abilities of your companions. 

A letter may be always made out of the books of the morning 

or talk of the evening ; and any letters from you, my dearest, will 

be welcome to 

Your, &c, 

Sam: Johnson. 

866. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 
Dear Madam, London, July 8, 1783. 

Time makes great changes of opinion. • • • • ran per- 
petually after in the lifetime of that lady, to whom he 

so earnestly desired to be reunited in the grave. I am glad 

* is not left in poverty, her disease seems to threaten her 

with a full share of misery. 

Of Miss H ^, whom you charge me with forgetting, I know 

not why I should much foster the remembrance, for I can do her 
no good; but I honestly recommend her to your pity; for 
nothing but the opportunity of emptying her bosom with con- 
fidence can save her from madness. To know at least one mind 
so disordered is not without its use ; it shows the danger of ad- 
mitting passively the first irruption of irregular imaginations. 

Langton and I have talked of passing a little time at 
Rochester together, till neither knows well how to refuse, though 
I think he is not eager to take me, and I am not desirous to be 
taken ^. His family is numerous, and his house little. I have 

* Piozzi Letters^ ii. 292. recorded this month*: — * Mr. Cam- 

' Probably Mrs. L s mentioned bridge asked after Dr. Johnson's 

ante^ ii. 310. health. "He is very much recovered," 

' Ante^ ii. 298. I answered, " and out of town at Mr. 

^ For Johnson's visit to Rochester Langton's. And there I hope he will 

see Ufty iv. 8, 22, 233. Miss Bumey entertain him with enough of Greek." 



re, IV. V, ^A, ^JJ. ivAI99 JJlUUCijr CillhCAbAIll mill VTlbU ««livru|^ t« vra 

♦ The entry is misdated * Feh. 23.' It was certainly written in July. 



let 



3i8 



To William Strahan. 



[A.D. 1788. 



let him know, for his relief, that I do not mean to burden him 
more than a week. He is however among those who wish me 
well, and would exert what power he has to do me good. 

I think you will do well in going to Weymouth, for though it 
be nothing, it is, at least to the young ones, a new nothing, and 
they will be able always to tell that they have seen Weymouth '• 
I am for the present willing enough to persuade myself, that a short 
succession of trifles may contribute to my re-establishment, but 
hope to return, for it is surely time, to something of importance. 

I am, dear Madam, 

Your, &c, 

Sam: Johnson. 
see. 

To . July II, 1783. 

In Messrs. Puttick and Simpson's Auction Catalogue of July 16, 1866, 
Lot 275 is an autograph of Johnson : — * Note on a card, July 11, 1783.' 



Sir, 



se?. 

To William Strahan '. 



I have enclosed the receipt ; and a letter to Mrs. Williams ' 
which you [will] do me the favour of sending to her. 



" Yes," said Mr. Cambridge, ** and 
make his son repeat the Hebrew 
alphabet to him." * Mme. D'Arblay's 
Diary, ii. 260. Johnson complained 
that ' Langton had his children too 
much about him.' Life, iii. 128. 

' It was six years later that by the 
visit of George III and his Court 
Weymouth became famous. Miss 
Bumey has described 'the band of 
music concealed in a neighbouring 
bathing-machine, which the moment 
he popped his royal head under 
water struck up God save great 
Great George our King^ She has 
told us too of the Mayor who refused 
to kneel when the Queen offered her 
hand for him to kiss. ' *' You should 
have knelt, Sir," said Colonel Gwynn. 
" Sir," answered the poor Mayor, " I 
cannot." " Everybody does, Sir." 
**Sir, — I have a wooden leg. 



»f f 



It was here that the Queen read 
aloud to Miss Bumey Mrs. Piozzi's 
Journey, Here Mrs. Gwynn, the 
younger of the Miss Homecks (ante, 
i. 344)» 'talked over with Miss 
Bumey anecdotes of their former 
acquaintances — Dr. Johnson, Sir 
Joshua Reynolds, Mrs. Thrale, 
Baretti, and her old admirer. Dr. 
Goldsmith, of whom she relates — as 
who does not ? a thousand ridiculous 
traits.* Mme, D'Arbla/s Diary , v. 
36. If only Miss Bumey had been 
as careful in recording these anec- 
dotes, as she always was with the 
compliments paid to her as an author, 
how grateful should we have been. 

' From the original in the posses- 
sion of Mr. John Graham, of the 
Scottish Club, Dover Street. 

^ Perhaps Johnson had received a 
further payment for his Journey to 

The 



AeUt 78.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



319 



The house where I am, is very airy, and pleasant, and over- 
looks the Medway where the channel is very broad, so that I 
hardly imagine a habitation more likely to promote health, nor 
have I much reason to complain ; My general health is better 
than it has been for some years — My breath is more free, and 
my nights are less disturbed. But my utterance is still impeded, 
and my voice soon grows weary with long sentences. This, I 
hope, time will remedy. I hope dear Mrs. Strahan continues 

well. 

I am, Sir, 

Your humble servant, 

Rochester, July 15, 1783. SaM: JOHNSON. 

To William Strahan, Esq., M.P., London. 

868. 

To Miss Williams. 
Rochester, July 15, 1783. Mentioned in the last Letter. 

869. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 
Dear Madam, London, July 23, 1783. 

I have been thirteen days at Rochester, and am just now 
returned. I came back by water in a common boat twenty miles 
for a shilling, and when I landed at Billingsgate I carried my 
budget myself to Comhill before I could get a coach, and was 
not much incommoded '. 



the Hebrides. The Letter to Mrs. 
Williams has not, I fear, been pre- 
served. 

' Piozzi Letters^ ii. 294. 

' Johnson had taken boat at 
Gravesend. In Dodsle/s London 
and its Environs^ 176 1, iii. 55f vi. 
266, it is stated that ' the Watermen's 
Company are by act of parliament 
obliged to provide officers at Billings- 
gate and at Gravesend, who, at every 
time of high water by night and day, 
are at their respective places to ring 
publicly a bell for fifteen minutes, to 
give notice to the tilt boats and 
wherries to put off; and coaches ply 



at Gravesend at the landing of people 
from London to carry them to 
Rochester.' At Gravesend surely the 
beU was rung at low tide, so that the 
boat might be carried up on the flow. 
By the tilt-boat which carried forty 
passengers the fare was nine-pence ; 
by the wherry which carried only 
ten, a shilling. From Billingsgate the 
most convenient way for Johnson 
would have been to take a sculling- 
boat to the Temple Stairs, but doubt- 
less the state of the tide rendered it 
impossible or at least dangerous to 
pass under London Bridge, where 
there often was a fall of five feet. 

I have 



*% 



20 To Miss Sophia Thrale. [a.d. i78». 



I have had Miss Susy s and Miss Sophy's letters, and now I 
am come home can write and write. While I was witK Mr. Lang- 
ton we took four little joumies in a chaise, and made one little 
voyage on the Medway, with four misses and their maid, but 
they were very quiet. 

I am very well, except that my voice soon faulters, and I have 
not slept well, which I imputed to the heat, which has been such 
as I never felt before for so long time '. Three days we had of 
very great heat about ten years ago. I infer nothing from it but 
a good harvest. 

Whether this short rustication ' has done me any good I carmot 
tell, I certainly am not worse, and am very willing to think my- 
self better. Are you better ? Sophy gave but a poor account of 
you. Do not let your mind wear out your body. 

I am. Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

870. 

To Miss Sophia Thrale ^ 

Dearest Miss Sophy, London, July 24, 1783. 

By an absence from home, and for one reason and another, 

Pennant's London^ ed. 1790, p. 296. constant mist that gives no dew, but 

See Life^ i. 458, n, 2. might as well be smoke. The sun 

Budget Johnson defines as ' a bag, sets like a pewter plate red-hot ; and 

such as may be easily carried.' The then in a moment appears the moon, 

sense in which it is now commonly at a distance, of the same complexion, 

used, as ' the yearly financial state- just as the same orb in a moving 

ment of the Chancellor of the Ex- picture serves for both.* Letters^ 

chequer,' is not given in his Die- viii. 386. * In 1783 Europe was 

tionary. In his Letter to Taylor, covered with a dense dry haze for 

fosty p. 322, he calls his budget his several months during the summer, 

portmanteau. and the sun was shorn of its rays 

* Horace Walpole wrote on July during a long period of dry weather. 

1 5 : — * As much as I love to have The haze extended from the sea-level 

summer in summer, I am tired of to an elevation higher than the tops 

this weather — of the Alps. It followed a great 

** The dreaded east is all the wind eruption in Iceland.' The Eruption 

that blows *." ofKrakaioa^ p. 195. 

It parches the leaves, makes the turf ' Rustication is not in Johnson's 

crisp, claps the doors, blows the Dictionary, 

papers about, and keeps one in a ^ Piozzi Letters^ ii. 295. 

* The Rape of the Lock, iv. 20. 

I owe 



Aetat.78.] To Mzss Sopkia Thrale. 321 

I owe a great number of letters, and I assure you that I sit down 
to write yours first. Why you should think yourself not a 
favourite, I cannot guess ; my favour will, I am afraid, never be 
worth much ; but be its value more or less, you are never likely 
to lose it, and less likely if you continue your studies with the 
same diligence as you have begun them. 

Your proficience in arithmetick is not only to be commended, 
but admired. Your master does not, I suppose, come very often, 
nor stay very long ; yet your advance in the science of numbers 
is greater than is commonly made by those who, for so many 
weeks as you have been learning, spend six hours a day in the 
writing school '. 

Never think, my Sweet, that you have arithmetick enough ; 
when you have exhausted your master, buy books. Nothing 
amuses more harmlessly than computation, and nothing is oftener 
applicable to real business or speculative enquiries. A thousand 
stories which the ignorant tell, and believe, die away at once, 
when the computist takes them in his gripe. I hope you will 
cultivate in yourself a disposition to numerical enquiries; they 
will give you entertainment in solitude by the practice, and re- 
putation in publick by the effect '. 

If you can borrow Wilkins*s Real Character ^y a folio, which 

' By writing-school Johnson, I i. 72, and for instances where ' he 

think, meant that part of a public takes stories in his gripe,* ib. iv. 171, 

school in which English subjects 204. 

were taught. ' An Essay towards a Real 

' * Useful, and what we call every- Character and a Philosophical 
day knowledge had the most of Language ^ by John WUkinSy D.D., 
Johnson's just praise. "Let your 1668. Wilkins was at one time 
boy learn arithmetic, dear Madam," Warden of Wadham CoUege, and 
was his advice to the mother of a afterwards Bishop of Chester. He 
rich young heir. "He will not then married a sister of Oliver CromwelL 
be a prey to every rascal which this He was one of the founders of the 
town swarms with ; teach him the Royal Society. Burnet describes 
value of money, and how to reckon him as * a great observer and a pro- 
it. Ignorance to a wealthy lad of one moter of experimental philosophy, 
and twenty is only so much fat to a which was then a new thing, and 
sick sheep ; it just serves to call the much looked after.' History of His 
rooks about him."' Piozzi's AneC" Ow/i 7/'»«^,ed. 1818, i. 207. Accord- 
dotes, p. 195. The boy was no doubt ing to Addison, *the Bishop was so 
Sir John Lade. Anle,'iuigi,n,i. For confident ofsuccess in the art of flying 
Johnson's love of arithmetic see Life, that he says he does not question but 

VOL. n. Y the 



322 



To the Reverend Dr. Taylor. fA.D. itss. 



the bookseller can perhaps let you have, you will have a very 
curious calculation, which you are qualified to consider, to shew 
that Noah s ark was capable of holding all the known animals 
of the world, with provision for all the time in which the earth 
was under water. Let me hear from you soon again. 

I am, Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 



871. 
To THE Reverend Dr. Taylor '. 

Dear Sir, 

When your letter came to me I was with Mr. Lang^ton at 
Rochester. I was suspicious that you were ill. He that goes 
away, you know, is to write, and for some time I expected a letter 
every post. 

My general health is undoubtedly better than before the 
seizure. Yesterday I came from Gravesend by water, and carried 
my portmanteau from Billingsgate to Cornhil \sic\y before I could 
get a coach ', nor did I find any great inconvenience in doing it. 



in the next age it will be as usual to 
hear a man call for his wings when 
he is going a journey as it is now to 
call for his boots.' The Guardian, 

No. 112. 

In a * Digression ' Wilkins replies 
to ' hereticks of old and Atheistical 
scoffers in these later times who have 
confidently affirmed that it was 
utterly impossible for the Ark to hold 
so vast a multitude of Animals, with 
a whole year's provision of food for 
each of them.' He calculates that 
'the beasts of the rapacious carni- 
vorous kinds were but forty in all or 
twenty pairs, which upon a fair calcu- 
lation are supposed equivalent, as to 
the bulk of their bodies and their 
food, unto twenty-seven Wolves ; but 
for greater certainty let them be sup- 
posed equal to thirty Wolves ; and 
let it be further supposed that six 



Wolves will every day devour a whole 
Sheep; according to this computa- 
tion five Sheep must be allotted to be 
devoured for food each day of the 
year, which amounts in the whole to 
1825.' He gives a picture and a 
plan showing how all the animals 
and their food can be stowed away. 
P. 166. 

* First published in Notes and 
Queries^ 6th S. v. 481. 

' Hume, writing of the year 1635, 
says : — * There remains a proclama- 
tion of this year prohibiting hackney- 
coaches from standing in the street. 
We are told that there were not 
above twenty coaches of that kind in 
London. There are at present near 
eight hundred.* Hist, of Eng,, cd. 
1773, vi. 308. In the first edition 
he had said ' above a thousand ' and 
in the second *• near a thousand.* In 

My 



Aeut.78.] To Miss Susatifia Thrale. 323 

My voice in the exchange of salutations, or on other little 
occasions, is as it was, but in a continuance of conversation it 
soon tires. I hope it g^rows stronger, but it does not make very 
quick advance. 

I hope you continue well, or grow every day better ; yet the 
time will come when one of us shall lose the other. May it come 
upon neither of us unprepared. 

I am, dear Sir, 

Yours affectionately, 

Sam: Johnson. 

July 24, 1783. 
To the Reverend Dr. Taylor in Ashbourne, Derbyshire. 

872. 

To Miss Susanna Thrale'. 

Dear Miss Susan, London, July 36, 1783. 

I answer your letter last, because it was received last ; and 
when I have answered it, I am out of debt to your house. A 
short negligence throws one behindhand. This maxim, if you 
consider and improve it, will be equivalent to your parson and 
bird, which is however a very good story, as it shews how far 
gluttony may proceed, which where it prevails is I think more 
violent, and certainly more despicable, than avarice itself. 

Gluttony is, I think, less common among women than among 
men'. Women commonly eat more sparingly, and are less 
curious in the choice of meat ; but if once you find a woman 
gluttonous, expect from her very little virtue. Her mind is en- 
slaved to the lowest and grossest temptation. 

A friend of mine, who courted a lady of whom he did not 
know much, was advised to see her eat, and if she was voluptuous 
at table, to forsake her. He married her however, and in a few 
weeks came to his adviser with this exclamation, * It is the dis- 
turbance of my life to see this woman eat.' She was, as might 

Dodsley's London^ 1761, iii. 124, it is the number of the coaches had risen 

stated : — * The number of coaches is to a thousand. Ufey iv. 330. 

limited to eight hundred. The fare * Piossi Letters^ ii. 297. 

for any distance not exceeding a mile ' For Johnson's own love of good 

and a half is one shilling.' By 1784 eating see Life^ i. 467. 

Y a be 



324 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A.D. 178S. 



be expected, selfish and brutal, and after some years of discord 
they parted, and I believe came together no more. 

Of men, the examples are sufficiently common. I had a friend> 
of great eminence in the learned and the witty world, who had 
hung up some pots on his wall to furnish nests for sparrows. The 
poor sparrows, not knowing his character, were seduced by the 
convenience, and I never heard any man speak of any future en- 
joyment with such contortions of delight as he exhibited, when 
he talked of eating the young ones '. 

When you do me the favour to write again, tell me something 
of your studies, your work, or your amusements. 

I am, Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

873. 

To William Cumberland Cruikshank. 

London, July 30, 1783. Mentioned with other letters to the same 
surgeon in the Life^ iv. 240. 

874. 

To Dr. John Mudge. 

London, July and August, 1783. Several Letters from which extracts 
are given in the Life^ iv. 240. 

876. 

To Mrs. Thrale*. 
Dear Madam, London, August 13, 1783. 

Your letter was brought just as I was complaining that you 
had forgotten me. 



' According to Mrs. Piozzi this 
friend was Isaac Hawkins Browne. 
Hayward's Piozzi, i. 320. * The 
pretty Mrs. Cholmondely said she 
was soon tired of him, because the 
first hour he was so dull, there was 
no bearing him ; the second he was 
so witty, there was no bearing him ; 
the third he was so drunk, there was 
no bearing him.' lb. i. 152. * He 
drank freely for thirty years,' said 



Johnson, *and wrote his poem De 
Animi Immortalitate in some of the 
last of these years.' Life^ v. 156. 
According to Mrs. Piozzi (Anecdotes^ 
p. 173), Johnson spoke of him as 
* the most delightful converser with 
whom he ever was in company.' In 
Campbell's British Poets are given 
specimens of his verses. 
' Piozsi LetterSy ii. 299. 

I am 



Aetat 78.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



325 



I am glad that the ladies find so much novelty at Weymouth. 
Ovid says, that the sun is undelightfuUy uniform '. They had 
some expectation of shells, which both by their form and colours 
have a claim to human curiosity '. Of all the wonders, I have 
had no account, except that Miss Thrale seems pleased with 
your little voyages. 

Sophy mentioned a story which her sisters would not suffer 
her to tell, because they would tell it themselves, but it has 
never yet been told me. 

Mrs. Ing is, I think, a baronet's daughter, of an ancient house 
in Staffordshire. Of her husband's father, mention is made in the 
life of Ambrose Philips ^ 

Of this world, in which you represent me as delighting to live, 
I can say little. Since I came home I have only been to church, 
once to Burney's, once to Paradise's, and once to Reynolds's. 
With Bumey I saw Dr. Rose^, his new relation, with whom I 
have been many years acquainted. If I discovered no reliques 
of disease I am glad, but Fanny's trade is fiction ^. 



* Johnson, I conjecture, wrote not 
sun but sea. The ladies had just 
arrived at the sea-side. 

' Johnson's ignorance of the im- 
portance of natural history is shown 
by the following passage in The 
Rambler y No. 83 : — * To mean under- 
standings it is sufficient honour to 
be numbered amongst the lowest 
labourers of learning ; but different 
abilities must find different tasks. 
To hew stone would have been un- 
worthy of Palladio; and to have 
rambled in search of shells and 
flowers had but ill-suited with the 
capacity of Newton.' See Ufe^ ii. 
468, for his attack on Brydone for 
his repeating the observations of a 
Sicilian geologist. 

^ * Philips had great sensibility of 
censure, if judgment may be made 
by a single story which 1 heard long 
ago from Mr. Ing, a gentleman of 
great eminence in Staffordshire. 
** Philips," said he, " was once at 



table, when I asked him how came 
the King of Epirus to drive oxen, 
and to say Pm goaded on by love. 
After which question he never spoke 
again."' Works, w'm.y^^. Theodore 
William Inge of Thorpe Constantine, 
near Tamworth, the son of *the 
gentleman of great eminence,* mar- 
ried Henrietta, daughter of Sir John 
Wrottesley. Burke's Landed Gentry ^ 
ed. 1882, i. 849. 

^ Dr. Rose was a schoolmaster of 
Chiswick. One of his daughters had 
married Dr. Bumcy's son Charles, 
the Greek scholar, on June 24 of this 
year. Gentleman* s Magazine y 1 783, 
p. 540. Another daughter, who mar- 
ried a Mr. Foss, was the mother of 
Edward Foss, the author of the 
Judges of England, Diet, of Nat, 
Biog, XX. 51. 

'It was Miss Bumey, a writer of 
fiction, who had reported to Mrs. 
Thrale that Johnson showed no 
traces of disease. 

I have 



326 



To Mrs, Thrale. 



[▲JO. 1788. 



I have since partaken of an epidemical disorder, but common 
evils produce no dejection '. 

Paradise's company, I fancy, disappointed him; I remember 
nobody. With Reynolds was the archbishop of Tuam, a man 
coarse of voice and inelegant of language ^. 

I am now broken with disease, without the alleviation of familiar 
friendship or domestick society ; I have no middle state between 
clamour and silence, between general conversation and self-tor- 
menting solitude. Levet is dead, and poor Williams is making 
haste to die : I know not if she will ever more come out of her 
chamber. 

I am now quite alone, but let me turn my thoughts another 

way. 

I am. Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

876. 

To Mrs. Thrale ^ 
Madam, London, August 20, 1783. 

This has been a day of g^eat emotion ; the office of the Com- 
munion of the Sick has been performed in poor Mrs. Williams's 
chamber. She was too weak to rise from her bed, and is there- 
fore to be supposed unlikely to live much longer. She has, I 



' Johnson's position may be illus- 
trated by the following passage in 
one of his Adventurers (No. Ill) : — 
Mt is asserted by a tragic poet that 
est miser nemo nisi comparatuSy *^ no 
man is miserable but as he is com- 
pared with others happier than him- 
self." * Horace Walpole wrote on 
September i: — *The summer has 
been wonderfully hot, and of late 
very unhealthy. Our globe really 
seems to be disordered.* Letters, 
viiL 404. See ante, ii. 320, n, i. 

" The following anecdote in the 
Memoir of Goldsmith prefixed to his 
Misc. Works y^d^, 1801, i. no, though 
dated August 7, 1773, no doubt be- 
longs to this year: — 'I was dining 



at Sir Joshua Reynolds's, August 7, 
1773, where were the Archbishop of 
Tuam and Mr. (now Lord) Eliot, 
when the latter, making use of some 
sarcastical reflections on Goldsmith, 
Johnson broke out warmly in his 
defence, and in the course of a 
spirited eulogium said, '^s there a 
man. Sir, now who can pen an essay 
with such ease and elegance as Gold- 
smith ? " ' On August 7, 1773, John- 
son was on his way to Scotland. 
Antey i. 223. In 1784 Reynolds 
exhibited the portrait of Dr. Bourke, 
Archbishop of Tuam. Taylor's Rey* 
noldsy ii. 435. 
' Piozzi Letters y ii. 301. 

hope, 



Aetot. 78.] 



To Mrs. Tkrale. 



327 



hope, little violent p^in, but is wearing out by torpid inappetence ' 
and wearisome decay; but all the powers of her mind are in tlieir 
full vigour, and when she has spirits enough for conversation, she 
possesses all the intellectual excellence that she ever had. Surely 
this is an instance of mercy much to be desired by a parting 
soul '. 

At home I see almost all my companions dead or dying. At 
Oxford I have just left ^ Wheeler, the man with whom I most 
delighted to converse. The sense of my own diseases, and the 
sight of the world sinking round me, oppress me perhaps too 
much. I hope that all these admonitions will not be vain, 
and that I shall learn to die as dear Williams is dying, who 
was very cheerful before and after this aweful solemnity, and 
seems to resign herself with calmness and hope upon eternal 
mercy. 

I read your last kind letter with great delight ; but when I 
came to love and honour^ what sprung in my mind ? — How loved, 
how honoured once, avails thee not *. 

I sat to Mrs, Reynolds yesterday for my picture, perhaps the 
tenth time^ and I sat near three hours with the patience of 
mortal born to bear; at last she declared it quite finished, and 
seems to think it fine. I told her it was Johnsotis grimly ghost. 



' Johnson gives in his Dictionary 
not inappetence but inappetency^ 
defining it as 'want of stomach or 
appetite.' 

^ When near his end he refused 
opiates; 'for,' said he, 'I have 
prayed that I may render up my 
soul to God unclouded.' Life^ iv. 
415. 

^ Left is no doubt a misprint for 
lost, Johnson's s is easily mistaken 
for/. Dr. Wheeler died on July 22, 
1783. Hannah More who was at 
Oxford at the time writes : — * Poor 
Dr. Wheeler ! but don't you pity the 
excellent Bishop of London? He 
sent off an express, as soon as his 
daughter died, to hasten Dr. Wheeler 
up to be with and console him ; an 



express from the doctor's sister to 
say he was dead met the Bishop's 
messenger on the road.' H. More's 
Memoirs^ i. 294. Miss Lowth, the 
Bishop's last surviving child, died 
suddenly on July 21, and Dr. Wheeler 
died suddenly the next day. Gentle- 
maris Magazine^ 17^3) p. 629. 

^ He is quoting a line in Pope's 
Elegy to the Memory of an Un^ 
fortunate Lady. 

^ He had sat to her three years 
earlier. Ante^ ii. 179. According to 
Northcote, Reynolds said of his 
sister's oil-paintings, 'they make 
other people laugh and me cry.' 
*• She generally,' Northcote adds, ' did 
them by stealth.' Ufe of Reynolds^ 
ii. i6a 

It 



328 



To Mrs, Thrale. 



[A.D. 178S. 



It is to be engraved, and I think in glided^ &c.' will be a good 

inscription. 

I am, Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

877. 

To Mrs. Thrale*. 
Dear Madam, London, August 26, 1783. 

Things stand with me much as they have done for some 
time. Mrs. Williams fancies now and then that she grows better, 
but her vital powers appear to be slowly burning out. Nobody 
thinks however that she will very soon be quite wasted, and as 
she suffers me to be of very little use to her, I have determined 
to pass some time with Mr. Bowles near Salisbury^ and have 
taken a place for Thursday. 



' ' 'Twas at the silent solemn hour 
When night and morning meet ; 

In glided Margaret's grimly ghost, 
And stood at William's feet.' 

Margarets Ghost, Percy Ballads^ 
iii. 3, 16. 

' Pioszi Letters^ ii. 303. 

^ For Johnson's visit to Heale, 
near Salisbury, see Ufe^ iv. 234-9. 
One of Johnson's fellow-travellers in 
the stage-coach described the journey 
in the Monthly Magazine^ quoted in 
Croker's Boswell, ed. 1844, x. 151. 
I abridge his account. * Upon enter- 
ing the coach,' he writes, * I per- 
ceived three gentlemen, one of whom 
strongly attracted my notice. He 
was a corpulent man, with a book 
in his hand, placed very near to his 
eyes. He had a large wig which did 
not appear to have been combed for 
an age ; his clothes were threadbare. 
I was struck with his resemblance 
to the print of Dr. Johnson, given as 
a frontispiece to the Lives of the 
Poets. The gentleman by the side 
of him remarked, '^ I wonder. Sir, 
that you can read in a coach which 



travels so swifdy [with halts for 
meals it took nearly fifteen hours to 
go eighty-two miles] ; it would make 
my head ache." " Ay, Sir," replied 
he, '' books make some people's head 
ache." This appeared to me John- 
sonian. I knew several persons with 
whom Dr. Johnson was well ac- 
quainted. **Do you know Miss 
Hannah More, Sir?" "Well, Sir; 
the best of all the female versifiers." 
We now reached Hounslow, and 
were served with our breakfJEist. 
[Hounslow is 9J miles from Hyde 
Park Comer]. " May I take the 
liberty. Sir, to enquire whether you 
be not Dr. Johnson ? " " The same, 
Sir.'' " I am happy,*' replied I, "to 
congratulate the learned world that 
Dr. Johnson, whom the papers lately 
announced to be dangerously indis- 
posed, is re-established in his health." 
" The civilest young man I ever met 
with in my life" was the answer. 
From that moment he became very 
gracious towards me, I was then 
preparing to go abroad. "What 
book of travels, Sir, would you advise 

Some 



Aetot. 78.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



329 



Some benefit may be perhaps received from change of air, 
some from change of company, and some from mere change of 
place. It is not easy to grow well in a chamber where one has 
long been sick, and where every thing seen and every person 
speaking revives and impresses images of pain. Though it be 
that no man can run away from himself*, he may yet escape from 
many causes of useless uneasiness. That the mind is its own 
place^^ is the boast of a fallen angel that had learned to lie. 
External locality has great effects, at least upon all embodied 
beings. I hope this little journey will afford me at least some 
suspense of melancholy. 

You give but an unpleasing account of your performance at 
Portland. Your scrambling days are then over. I remember 
when no Miss and few Masters could have lefl you behind, or 
thrown you out in tfie pursuit of honour^ or of curiosity. But tempus 
edax rerum^, and no way has been yet found to draw his teeth. 

I am, dear Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 



me to read, previously to my setting 
off upon a tour to France and Italy?" 
" Why, Sir, as to France, I know no 
book worth a groat ; and as to Italy, 
Baretti paints the fair side, and 
Sharp the foul; the truth perhaps 
lies between the two." [See Z^, iL 
57 ; iii* 55-] I observed that at 
dinner he drank only water. I asked 
him, whether he had ever tasted 
bumboy a West Indian potation, 
which is neither more nor less than 
very strong punch. ** No, Sir,** said 
he. I made some. He tasted ; and 
declared that if ever he drank any- 
thing else than water it should be 
bumbo. When the sad moment of 
separation at Salisbury arrived, " Sir," 
said he, '* let me see you in London, 
upon your return to your native 
country. I am sorry that we must 
part. I have always looked upon 
it as the worst condition of man's 
destiny that persons are so often torn 



asunder, just as they become happy 
in each other's society." ' 
' ' Caelum non animum mutant 
qui trans mare currunt : ' 
*For they who through the ven- 
turous ocean range 
Not their own passions, but the 

climate change.' 
Francis. Horace, i Epistles^ xi. 

27. 

' ' The mind is its own place, and 
in itself 
Can make a heaven of hell, a 
hell of heaven.' 

Paradise Losty i. 254. 
' * Whene'er did Juba, or did For- 
tius show 
A virtue that has cast me at a 

distance. 
And thrown me out in the pur- 
suits of honour.' 
Addison. Caio^ Act i. scene i. 
* ' Tempus edax rerum, tuque invi- 
diosa vetustas 

To 



330 



To the Reverend Dr. Taylor. [ajx itss. 



878. 

To Dr. Brocrlesby. 

Heale near Salisbury, August 29, 1783. Published in the Ufi^ iv. 
234- 

878. 
To THE Reverend Dr. Taylor*. 

Dear Sir, 

I sat to Opey as long as he desired, and I think the head is 
finished, but it [is] not much admired. The rest he is to add 
when he comes again to town \ 

I did not understand that you expected me at Ashbourne, and 
have been for a few days with a Gentleman in Wiltshire. If you 
write to me at London, my letters will be sent, if they should 
happen to come before I return. 

I am. Sir, 

Your most humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 

Heale near Salisbury, Sept 3, 1783. 
To the Reverend Dr. Taylor at Ashbourne, Derbyshire. 



Omnia destruitis.* 
Ovid. Metamorphoses ^ xv. 234. 
* Thy teeth, devouring time, thine, 

envious age, 
On things below still exercise your 
rage.' 

Dryden. 
' First published in Notes and 
Queries, 6th S. v. 481. 

' Opie who was only twenty-two 
years old, had been brought up to 
London in 1781 by Dr. Wolcot. He 
is described by a brother Cornish- 
man as ' that unlicked cub of a car- 
penter.' His father was glad to part 
with him. He said, 'the boy was 
good for nothing— could never make 
a wheel-barrow — was always gazing 
upon cats, and staring volks in the 
face.' R. Polwhele's Traditions, 6r*c,, 



ed. 1826, i. 77, In London at first 
he was all the rage. *The street 
where he lived was so crowded with 
coaches of the nobility as to become 
a real nuisance to the neighbourhood ; 
so that, as he jestingly observed to 
me,' writes Northcote, ' he thought he 
must place cannon at his door to 
keep the multitude off. He was only 
the embryo of a painter ; when he 
had proved himself to be a real artist 
the capricious public left him with 
disgust because he was a novelty no 
longer.* Northcote's Reynolds^ iL 
126. Hawkins believes that the por- 
trait of Johnson was never finished. 
Hawkins's /c?Affj^», p. 569. In 1889 
it was given to the Athenaeum Club, 
London, by Mr. T. Humphry Ward. 
Athenceum, August 10, 1889. 

To 



Aatat78.] To Mtss Susatifta Tkrale. 331 



880. 

To Miss Susanna Thrale*. 
Dear Miss, [Heale], September 9, 1783. 

I am glad that you and your sisters have been at Portland. 
You now can tell what is a quarry and what is a cliflF. Take all 
opportunities of filling your mind with genuine scenes of nature : 
description is always fallacious, at least till you have seen 
realities you cannot know it to be true. This observation might 
be extended to life, but life cannot be surveyed with the same 
safety as nature, and it is better to know vice and folly by report 
than by experience. A painter, says Sydney, mingled in the 
battle that he might know how to paint it ; but his knowledge 
was useless, for some mischievous sword took away his head *. 
They whose speculation upon characters leads them too far into 
the world, may lose that nice sense of good and evil by which 
characters are to be tried. Acquaint yourself therefore both with 
the pleasing and the terrible parts of nature, but in life wish to 
know only the good. 

Pray shew Mamma this passage of a letter from Dr. Brocklesby : 
' Mrs. Williams, from mere inanition, has at length paid the great 
debt to nature ^ about three o'clock this morning, (Sept. 6). She 
died without a struggle, retaining her faculties entire to the very 
last, and as she expressed it, having set her house in order ^ was 
prepared to leave it at the last summons of nature.' 

I do not now say any thing more than that I am, 

My dearest, 

Your, &c., 

SAM: Johnson. 

881. 

To Francis Barber ^ 
Dear Francis, Heale, Sept. 16, 1783. 

I rather wonder that you have never written ; but that is 

' Piozzi Letters^ ii. 308. Essays: 0/ Death, 

'It was the painter's hands that 'Your son, my Lord, has paid a 

were struck off. ' So he returned, soldier's debt.' 

well skilled in wounds, but with never Macbeth^ Act v. sc. 8. 

a hand to perform his skill' Arcadia^ * 2 Kings xx. i. 

ed. 1725, i. 359. ' First published in Croker's Bos* 

^ * The fear of death, as a tribute well, page 739. 

^ue unto nature, is weak.' Bacon's 

now 



332 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A^. 1789. 



now not necessary, for I purpose to be with [you] on Thursday 

before dinner. As Thursday is my birth-day % I would have 

a little dinner got, and would have you invite Mrs. Desmoulins, 

Mrs. Davis' that was about Mrs. Williams, and Mr. Allen and 

Mrs. Gardiner. 

I am, 

Yours, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

882. 

To Dr. Burney. 

[London], September 20, 1783. Published in the Life^ iv. 239. 

888. 

To Mrs. Thrale 3. 
Dear Madam, London, Sept. 22, 1783. 

Happy are you that have ease and leisure to want intelli- 



' See ante^ i. 250, for Johnson's 
unwillingness to have his birthday 
recalled to his thoughts. In 1781 
he viewed the day with calmness, 
if not with cheerfulness. He writes : — 
' I rose, breakfasted, and gave thanks 
at church for my creation, preserva- 
tion, and redemption. As I came 
home, I thought I had never begun 
any period of life so placidly. I 
have always been accustomed to let 
this day pass unnoticed, but it came 
this time into my mind that some 
little festivity was not improper. I 
had a dinner ; and invited Allen and 
Levet.' Pr, and Med,, p. 198. On 
his return to London he wrote to 
Dr. Burney : — * I came home on the 
1 8th at noon, to a very disconsolate 
house.' Life^ iv. 239. The following 
day at the Old Bailey, a few minutes' 
walk from Johnson's house, fifty-eight 
convicts received sentence of death. 
GentlematCs Magazine, 1783, p. 802. 

' Not the wife of Tom Davies, of 
whom Churchill wrote : — 



'That Davies hath a very pretty 

wife.' 
Churchill's Poems, ed. 1766, i. 16. 

This Mrs. Davis was most likely 
the woman whom Miss Burney found 
at Bolt Court the day before Johnson's 
death. She writes : — * All the rest 
went away but a Mrs. Davis, a good 
sort of woman, whom this truly 
charitable soul had sent for to take 
a dinner at his house. I then went 
and waited with her by the fire. 
Mr. Langton then came. He could 
not look at me, and I turned away 
from him. Mrs. Davis asked how 
the Doctor was. " Going on to death 
very fast," was his mournful answer. 
" Has he taken," said she, "any- 
thing ? '* " Nothing at all We carried 
him some bread and milk — he re- 
fused it, and said :—* The less the 
better."" Mme. D*Arbla/s Dtary^ 

ii. 337. 

For Mr. Allen see ante, ii. 61, and 
for Mrs. Gardiner, ante, ii. 174, 

^ Piozsd Letters, ii. 31a 

gence 



Aetat. 74.] 



To Mrs. Tkrale. 



333 



gence of air-ballons'. Their existence is I believe indubitable ; 
but I know not that they can possibly be of any use. The con- 
struction is this. The chymical philosophers have discovered 
a body (which I have forgotten, but will enquire), which, dissolved 
by an acid, emits a vapour lighter than the atmospherical air '. 
This vapour is caught, among other means, by tying a bladder, 
compressed upon the bottle in which the dissolution is performed ; 
the vapour rising swells the bladder, and fills it. The bladder is 
then tied and removed, and another applied, till as much of this 
light air is collected as is wanted. Then a large spherical case is 
made, and very large it must be, of the lightest matter that can 
be found, secured by some method, like that of oiling silk, against 
all passage of air. Into this are emptied all the bladders of light 
air, and if there is light air enough it mounts into the clouds, 
upon the same principle as a bottle filled with water will sink in 
water, but a bottle filled with aether would float. It rises till it 
comes to air of equal tenuity with its own^, if wind or water does 
not spoil it on the way. Such, Madam, is an air ballon. 



' In the GentUtnaris Magastne 
for 1783, p. 795, under date of * Paris, 
September 2,' it is reported that * a 
discovery has been made, of which 
the Government hath thought proper 
to give notice, in order to prevent 
the terrors which it might excite 
among the people.' The balloon is 
then described. No person went up 
till a few weeks later. Post^ Letter 
of December 13, 1783. Cowper 
wrote the day after Johnson: — 
* French philosophers amuse them- 
selves, and, according to their own 
phrase, cover themselves with glory 
by inventing air-balls, which by 
their own buoyancy ascend above 
the clouds, and are lost in regions 
which no human contrivance could 
ever penetrate before. An English 
tailor, an inhabitant of the dung- 
hills of Silver End, prays, and his 
prayer ascends into the ears of the 
Lord of Sabaoth. — He indeed covers 



himself with glory, fights battles, 
and gains victories; but makes no 
noise. Europe is not astonished at 
his feats, foreign Academies do not 
seek him for a member; he will 
never discover the art of flying, or 
send a globe of taffeta up to heaven. 
But he will go thither himself.' 
Cowper's Works, iv. 305. 

Johnson in his Dictionary has 
ballon, or balloon, but not, of course, 
in the sense which it was henceforth 
to bear. In the Ann, Reg, for 1783, 
L 215, the word is spelt ballon, 

' The * body * was iron-filings, the 
acid sulphuric acid, and the vapour 
nitrogen. 

^ Mt has been found that a ball 
filled with inflanmiable air could 
mount of itself towards the sky, with- 
out stopping till both the airs were 
in equilibrium, which must be at a 
very great height.' Gentleman^s 
Magazine^ 17^39 P* 795* 

Meteors 



334 



To Mrs, Tkrale. 



[▲.!>. 1788. 



Meteors have been this autumn very often seen*, but I have 
never been in their way. 

Poor Williams has I hope seen the end of her afflictions. She 

acted with prudence and she bore with fortitude. She has left 

me. 

Thou thy weary task hast done, 

Home art gone^ and ta'en thy wages*. 

Had she had good humour and prompt elocution, her universal 
curiosity and comprehensive knowledge would have made her 
the delight of all that knew her. She left her little to your 
charity school ^. 



' On August i8 a great meteor 
was seen at such distant places as 
Ostend, London, Edinburgh, and the 
North of Ireland. Gentleniatfs Maga- 
zine, 1783, pp. 711, 71a, 795, 885. 
The poet Crabbe and his wife saw 
this 'glorious phenomenon, as it 
burst forth as laige as the moon, 
but infinitely more brilliant. My 
mother,* writes their son, * who hap- 
pened to be riding behind, said that 
even at that awful moment (for she 
concluded that the end of all things 
was at hand) she was irresistibly 
struck with my father's attitude. 
He had raised himself from his horse, 
lifted his arm, and spread his hand 
towards the object of admiration and 
terror, and appeared transfixed with 
astonishment.' Crabbe's Works^ i. 
124. Cowper, in the Second Book 
of the Ta^k^ alluding, as he says 
in a note, to this meteor and also 
*to the fog that covered both Eu- 
rope and Asia during the whole of 
this summer' (ante^ ii. 320, n, i), 
writes : — 
'Fires from beneath, and meteors 

from above 
Portentous, unexampled, unexplained. 
Have kindled beacons in the skies, 

and th' old 
And crazy earth has had her shaking 

fits 



More frequent, and forgone her 

usual rest. 
Is it a time to wrangle, when the 

props 
And pillars of our planet seem to fail, 
And Nature with a dim and sickly 

eye 
To wait the close of all ? ' 

Cowper's Poems^ ed. 1786, ii. 4S. 
' * Thou thy worldly task, &c.' 

Cymbeline, Act iv. sc 2. 
' The Charity School was The 
Ladies' Charity School in the Parish 
of St. Sepulchre, mentioned in the 
Life, iv. 246. It was founded in 1702* 
with the object of training young 
girls for domestic servants. Mrs. 
Thrale was one of the Managers, 
and Johnson was a subscriber from 
1777 till his death. It is recorded 
in the Minutes on March 12, 1783 : — 
* Dr. Johnson, having tiun, presents 
Mary Ann Austin, daughter of Charles 
and Amey Austin, living at the top 
of Goswell Street, at one Mr. Mason's, 
near the prison bar.' Mrs. Williams, 
a few weeks before her death, had 
given the School ;£2oo; the re- 
mainder of her substance, amounting 
to £iS7i she left to it in her will. 
Probably the money which she had 
made by the benefit that Garrick had 
given her at Drury Lane, amounting 
to ;£200, had been invested. lb, L 

The 



Aetot. 74.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



335 



The complaint about which you enquire is a sarcocele: I 
thought it a hydrocele', and heeded it but little. Puncture has 
detected the mistake : it can be safely suffered no longer. Upon 
inspection three days ago it was determined extrema veniura. 
If excision should be delayed there is danger of a gangrene. 
You would not have me for fear of pain* perish in putrescence. 
I shall I hope, with trust in eternal mercy, lay hold of the possi- 
bility of life which yet remains. My health is not bad ; the gout 
is now trying at^ my feet. My appetite and digestion are good, 
and my sleep better than formerly : I am not dejected, and I am 
not feeble. There is however danger enough in such operations 
at seventy-four. 

Let me have your prayers and those of the young dear people. 

I am, dear Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

Write soon and often. 



393, n,\. In the possession of the 
Charity are her four silver tea-spoons, 
and sugar-tongs, and her portrait. 
It shows a woman of a strong but 
not very amiable character. It is 
perhaps the work of Miss Reynolds. 
The same Chanty possesses six tea- 
spoons which by tradition belonged 
to Johnson. They were made, as 
the hall-mark shows, in the year of 
Mrs. Williams* death. He had always 
taken tea with her. When her spoons 
were given to the Charity he had to 
supply their place. With them he 
had stirred countless cups of tea. 
Goldsmith and Boswell had used 
them with pride when * they went to 
Miss Williams ' (Life^ i. 421). Rey- 
nolds doubtless had often handled 
them, and Burke and many a famous 
men besides. 

The School was first established 
in King Street, Snow Hill. In 1847 



it was moved to John Street, Bed- 
ford Row ; thence to Queen's Square, 
Bloomsbury, and lastly to Powis 
Gardens, Notting Hill, where it is 
carried on with efficiency. Since its 
foundation more than 1500 girls have 
been started in life.* 

' John Wesley suffered from the 
same complaint. 'After two years 
he submitted to an operation, and 
obtained a cure. A little before this 
he notices in his Journal the first 
night that he had passed in wakeful- 
ness ; " I believe," he adds, " few can 
say this ; in seventy years I never 
lost one night's sleep.'" Southey's 
Life of Wesley y ed. 1846, ii. 384. 

' See Life^ iv. 399, 418, for his 
eagerness to endure pain if thereby 
life could be prolonged. 

^ Johnson in his Dictionary gives 
no instance of this use of try. 



* For most of this infonnation I am indebted to Miss A. M. Moore, of Oakfield, 
Eltham, the Hon. Secretary of the School. 

To 



336 



To Mrs. Montagu. 



[▲.!>. 1788. 



884. 

To Mrs. Montagu'. 

September 22, 1783. 

Madam, 
That respect which is always due to beneficence makes it fit 
that you should be informed, otherwise than by the papers, that, 
on the 6th of this month, died your pensioner, Anna Williams, 
of whom it may be truly said, that she received your bounty with 
gratitude, and enjoyed it with propriety*. You perhaps have 
still her prayers. 

You have, Madam, the satisfaction of having alleviated the 
sufferings of a woman of great merit, both intellectual and moral. 
Her curiosity was universal, her knowledge was very extensive, 
and she sustained forty years of misery with steady fortitude. 
Thirty years and more she had been my companion, and her 
death has left me very desolate. 

That I have not written sooner, you may impute to absence, 
to ill-health, to any thing rather than want of regard to the 
benefactress of my departed friend. 

I am. Madam, 

Your most humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 



* First published in Croker*s Bos^ 
well, page 739. 

' For Mrs. Montagu's kindness to 
Mrs. Williams, see antCy i. 371, «. i. 
Mr. Croker, with a grossness and 
confusion of thought which were not 
uncommon in him, says in a note 
that ' Mrs. Montagu's pension to 
Mrs. Williams was in truth an in- 
direct benefaction to Johnson him- 
self, and was probably so meant by 
the delicate and courteous charity of 
that exceUent lady.' 

This letter brought to a close 
Johnson's quarrel with Mrs. Mon- 
tagu. Anie^ ii. 139, n, i, 2sApost, p. 
340. He told Miss Bumey of his 
letter and added : — 



' ^* And I had a very kind answer 
from her." 

" Well then, Sir," cried I, " I hope 
peace now will be again proclaimed.' 

" Why, I am now," said he, " come 
to that time when I wish all bitterness 
and animosity to be at an end. I have 
never done her any serious harm^ 
nor would I ; though I could give 
her a bite! but she must provoke 
me much first. In volatile talk, in- 
deed, I may have spoken of her not 
much to her mind ; for in the tumult 
of conversation malice is apt to grow 
sprightly; and there, I hope, I am 
not yet decrepid." ' Mme. D'Arblay's 
Diary, ii. 292. 

To 



Aetat. 74.] To Mtss Reynolds. 337 

886. 

To THE Reverend Dr. Taylor'. 
Dear Sir, 

My case is what you think it, of the worst kind, a Sarcocele*. 

There is I suppose nothing to be done but by the knife — I have 

within these four days been violently attacked by the gout, which 

if [I] should continue in its grip^ would retard the other business; 

but I hope it will abate. 

I am, dear Sir, 

Your humble servant, 

Sept. 24, 1783. Sam: Johnson. 

To the Reverend Dr. Taylor in Ashbourne, Derbyshire. 

886. 

To Bennet Langton. 
London, September 29, 1783. Published in the Life^ iv. 240. 

887. 
To Bennet Langton. 

[London, September or October, 1783]. Two letters quoted in part 
in the Life, iv. 241. 

888. 

To James Boswell. 

[London], September 30, 1783. Published in the Life^ iv. 241. 

889. 

To Miss Reynolds ^ 
Dear Madam, October i, 1783. 

I am very ill indeed, and to my former illness is superadded 

the gout. I am now without shoes, and I have been lately almost 

motionless. 

To my other afflictions is added solitude. Mrs. Williams, 

' This copy of the original I owe ^ Johnson perhaps wrote gripe, in 

to the kindness of Mr. John S. H. accordance with the spelling in his 

Fogg, of 481 Broadway, Boston, Dictionary, 

United States. * First published in Croker's Bos* 

^ See anie, ii. 335, and Life, iv. 239. well, page 740. 

VOL. II. z a companion 



338 To Mrs. Thrale. [a.i>.i78s. 



a companion of thirty years, is gone. It is a comfort to me to 

have you near me. 

I am, Madam, 

Your most humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 

890. 

To Mr. Tomkeson '. 
Sir, ' I St October, 1783. 

I have known Mr. Lowe very familiarly a great while. 
I consider him as a man of very clear and vigorous understand- 
ing, and conceive his principles to be such that whatever you 
transact with him you have nothing to expect from him unbe- 
coming a gentleman, 

I am, Sir, 

Your humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 

891. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 
Madam, London, Oct. 6, 1783. 

When I shall give a good and settled account of my health 
I cannot venture to say; some account I am ready to give, 
because I am pleased to find that you desire it. 

I yet sit without shoes, with my foot upon a pillow, but my 
pain and weakness are much abated, and I am no longer crawling 
upon two sticks. To the gout my mind is reconciled by another 
letter from Mr. Mudge, in which he vehemently urges the 
excision, and tells me that the gout will secure me from every 
thing paralytick^: if this be true, I am ready to say to the 
arthritick pains, Deh I venite ogni di, diirate un anno *. 

' First published in Croker's Bos- ^ See antCy ii. 108, n, 5. Mr. Mudge, 

welly page 823. Boswell describes as * the celebrated 

For Mauritius Lowe see antey surgeon, and now physician, of 

ii. 203. The name Tomkeson is not Plymouth.* Life, i. 378. For John- 

in the indexes of the Gentleman* s son's letters to him about his^ health 

Magazine, Perhaps the copyist has see tb, iv. 240. 

been at fault. ♦ Mrs. Piozzi in her Anecdotes, 

» Piozzi Letters, ii. 313. p. 69, quotes * the famous distich of 

My 



Aetat. 74.] 



To Mrs, Tkrale. 



339 



My physician in ordinary is Dr. Brocklesby, who comes almost 
every day ; my surgeon in Mr. Pott's absence is Mr. Cruikshank, 
the present reader in Dr. Hunter's school '. Neither of them 
however do much more than look and talk. The general health 
of my body is as good as you have ever known it, almost as 
good as I can remember. 

The carriage which you supposed made rough by my weakness 
was the common Salisbury stage, high hung, and driven to 
Salisbury in a day. I was not fatigued'. 

Mr. Pott has been out of town, but I expect to see him soon, 
and will then tell you something of the main affair, of which 
there seems now to be a better prospect. 

This afternoon I have given to Mrs. Cholmondely, Mrs. Way, 



an Italian improvisatore^ when the 
Duke of Modena ran away from the 
comet in the year 1742 or 1743 : — 

Se al venir vostro i principi sen' 
vanno 

Deh venga ogni di — durate un 
anno, 
" which," said Dr. Johnson, " would 
do just as well in our language 
thus : — 

If at your coming princes disappear, 

Comets 1 come every day — and stay 
a year." ' 

Piozzi's Anecdotes y p. 69. 

* In 1 784 Reynolds exhibited Pott's 
portrait in the Academy. Taylor's 
Reynolds^ ii. 435. 

Dr.WiUiam Hunter in 1770 opened 
at his own expense an Anatomical 
School in Great Windmill Street, with 
a Museum attached. Cruikshank was 
successively his pupil, anatomical- 
assistant, and partner. On Hunter's 
death he and Dr. Baillie carried on 
the School. * He occasionally in- 
dulged himself too freely with the 
bottle although never to intoxication 
or insensibility.' He died of apoplexy 
at the age of 55 on June 27, 1800. 
His Christian names, William Cum- 
berland, were given by his parents — 



Z 2 



he was a Scotchman — *out of com- 
pliment to the hero of Culloden.' 
If he was bom, as is stated, in 1745, 
that battle had not yet been fought, 
and the Duke was neither hero nor 
butcher. ' Cruikshank attended Dr. 
Johnson in his last illness, and was 
termed by him, in allusion to his 
benevolent disposition, "a sweet- 
blooded man." When he was lancing 
the dying man's legs to reduce the 
dropsy, Johnson called out to him, 
" I want life and you are afraid oJF 
giving me pain — deeper, deeper."' 
Gentlemof^s Magazine^ 1800, ii. 694, 
792 ; Chalmers' Biog. Diet xviii. 
325, and Dici. of Nat, Biog, xiii. 260. 
See also Lifey iv. 219, for Johnson's 
letter to Reynolds recommending 
Cruikshank as Hunter's successor as 
Professor of Anatomy to the Royal 
Academy. 

See Appendix B for Dr. Brock- 
lesb/s Report of a conversation with 
Johnson and Boswell on March 30, 
1783, the day of Hunter's death. 

' He had written to Dr. Brocklesby : 
— * I was no more wearied with the 
journey, though it was a high-hung 
rough coach, than I should have 
been forty years ago.' lb, iv. 234. 

Lady 



340 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A.I>. 1783. 



Lady Sheffield's relation, Mr. Kindersley the describer of Indian 
manners S and another anonymous lady. 

As Mrs. Williams received a pension from Mrs. Montagu, it 
was fit to notify her death. The account has brought me 
a letter not only civil but tender ; so I hope peace is proclaimed*. 

The state of the Stocks I take to be this : When in the late 
exigencies the ministry gave so high a price for money, all the 
money that could be disengaged from trade was lent to the 
publick. The stocks sunk because nobody bought them ^ They 
have not risen since, because the money being already lent out, 
nobody has money to lay out upon them till commerce shall by 
the help of peace bring a new supply. If they cannot rise, they 
will sometimes fall ; for their essence seems to be fluctuation ; 
but the present sudden fall is occasioned by the report of some, 
new disturbances and demands which the Irish are machinating^. 

I am, Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson, 

892. 

To Mrs. Thrale ^ 

London, October 9, 1783. 
Two nights ago Mr. Burke sat with me a long time; he 
seems much pleased with his journey. We had both seen Stone- 
henge this summer for the first time. I told him that the view 



' For Mrs. Cholmondeley see 
ante^ ii. 186, and for Mrs. Way, ante, 
ii. 252. Mr. Kinsdersley is a mis- 
take for Mrs. Kinsderley, who in 
1777 published Letters from the 
Island of Teneriffe, Brazil, the Cape 
of Good Hope, and the East Indies* 

' Ante, ii. 336, «. 2. 

^ On September 9 the three per 
cent, consols were at 64 ; by October 
6 they had fallen to 59. Gentle- 
man^ s Magazine, 1783, pp. 808, 896. 
* Thursday, September 25. This day 
Nathan Solomon, the great Jew 
broker, sent a letter to the Stock 
Exchange, declaring his intention 



never more to return to that bouse. 
The stocks fell considerably. At 
one period the three per cent, consols 
were done at 5 8 J. Such a peace 
price was never before known in this 
country.' lb, p. 803. 

* Horace Walpole wrote ^\^ days 
later : — * The aspect of Ireland is 
very tempestuous. I doubt they will 
hurt us materially without benefitting 
themselves. If they obtain very short 
parliaments, they will hurt themselves 
more than us, by introducing a con- 
fusion that will prevent their im- 
provements.' Letters, viii. 417. 

* Piozzi Letters^ ii. 315. 

had 



▲etat. 74.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



341 



had enabled me to confute two opinions which have been 
advanced about it. One, that the materials are not natural 
stones, but an artificial composition hardened by time. This 
notion is as old as Camden's time ; and has this strong argument 
to support it, that stone of that species is no where to be found. 
The other opinion, advanced by Dr. Charlton, is, that it was 
erected by the Danes \ 

Mr. Bowles' made me observe, that the transverse stones were 
fixed on the perpendicular supporters by a knob formed on the 
top of the upright stone, which entered into a hollow cut in the 
crossing stone. This is a proof that the enormous edifice was 
raised by a people who had not yet the knowledge of mortar ; 
which cannot be supposed of the Danes who came hither in 
ships, and were not ignorant certainly of the arts of life. This 
proves likewise the stones not to be factitious; for they that 
could mould such durable masses could do much more than make 
mortar, and could have continued the transverse from the upright 
part with the same paste. 

You have doubtless seen Stonehenge, and if you have not, 
I should think it a hard task to make an adequate de- 
scription. 

It is, in my opinion, to be referred to the earliest habitation of 
the Island, as a Druidical monument of at least two thousand 
years ; probably the most ancient work of man upon the Island. 



' * It is the opinion of some,* writes 
Camden, * that these stones are not 
natural, or such as are dug out of the 
quarries, but artificial, of fine sand 
cemented together by a glewy sort of 
matter.' Camden's Britannioy ed. 
1722, i. 121. Walter Charleton pub- 
lished in 1663 Chorea Gigantum; or 
the most famous Antiquity of Great 
Britain^ vulgarly called Stone-Hengy 
standing on Salisbury Plain^ restored 
to the Danes, He maintained that 
it was * principally, if not wholly, de- 
signed to be a Court Royal, or Place 
for the Election and Inauguration of 
their Kings.' Ed. 1725. The Epistle 
Dedicatory^ p. 3. Dryden addressed 



to him some lines in which he says : — 
* Through you, the Danes (their short 
dominion lost) 
A longer conquest than the Saxons 

boast. 
Stone-Heng,once thought a Temple, 

you have found 
A Throne, where Kings, our Earthly 
Gods, were crowned.' 
Pepys records on July 28, 1666, 
some *very pretty discourse of Dr. 
Charleton's, concerning Nature's 
fashioning every creature's teeth 
according to the food she intends 
them.' Diary, ed. 185 1, iii. 245. 

^ Johnson's host at Heale. Ante^ 
it. 328. 

Salisbury 



342 To the Reverend Dr. Taylor. [a.i>. itss. 

Salisbury cathedral, and its neighbour Stonehenge, are two 
eminent monuments of art and rudeness, and may show the first 
essay, and the last perfection, in architecture. 

I have not yet settled my thoughts about the generation of 
light air', which I indeed once saw produced, but I was at the 
height of my great complaint. I have made enquiry, and shall 
soon be able to tell you how to fill a ballon. 

I am. Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

898. 

Sir ^^ ^^^ Reverend Dr. Taylor ^ 

Your prohibition to write till the operation is performed is 
likely, if I observed it, to interrupt our correspondence for a long 
time. 

When Mr. Pot^ and Mr. Cruikshank examined the tumid 
vessicle, they thought it a Sarcocele. or flesh swelling, I had 
flattered myself that it was only an hydrocele, or Water swelling. 
This could be determined with certainty only by puncture, which 
at my request was made by Mr. Pot, and which confirmed their 
opinion. They advised some palliative, and I went to a Friend 
in Wiltshire *, from whom the bulk and pain of the encreasing 
tumour drove me home for help. 

Mr. Pot seemed to think that there was no help but from the 
knife, and only postponed the operation to his return from a 
journey of a week. In that week the puncture burst open, and 
by its discharge, abated the inflammation, relaxed the tension, 
and lessened the tumor by at least half. Mr. Pot at his return 
found so much amendment, that he has left the disease for a time 
to nature. Mr. Cruikshank would cut another orifice, but Mr. 

* Ante^ ii. 333. Johnson had *at- ^ Johnson lops off superfluous con- 
tended some experiments that were sonants. As he always writes Bos- 
made by a physician at Salisbury on wel^ Gastrely instead of Bosweli, 
the new kinds of air.' Life, iv. 237. Gastrell, in like manner he cuts do\*-n 

' From the original in the posses- Pott, 

sion of Mr. Alfred Morrison, of Font- "* Mr. Bowles of Heale. Ante, 

hill House. ii. 328. 

Pot 



Aetat.74.] To Mrs. Tkralc. 343 

Pot is not yet willing. In the mean time I have no pain, and 
little inconvenience. 

When all was at the worst, I consulted Mudge' of PUmouth, 
a very skilful man, and Dr. Heberden, who both vehemently 
pressed the excision, which perhaps would at last be the safer 
way, but Mr. Cruikshank is afraid of it. We must at present sit 
still. 

I have for some weeks past had a sharp fit of the gout, to 
which I am reconciled by Mr. Mudge, who thinks it a security 
against the palsy; and indeed I recollect none that ever had 
both". I have now nothing of the gout, but feet a little tender, 
and ankles somewhat weak. I am in my general health better 
than for some years past. 

I am. Sir, 

Your most humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 

London, Oct. 20, 1783. 
To the Reverend Dr. Taylor in Ashbourne, Derbyshire. 

894. 

To Mrs. Thrale^ 
Dear Madam, London, October 21, 1783. 

I have formerly heard, what you perhaps have heard too, 

that— 

The wheel of life is daily turning round, 

And nothing in this world of certainty is found. 

When in your letter of the eleventh, you told me that my two 
letters had obliged, consoled, and delighted you, I was much 
elevated, and longed for a larger answer ; but when the answer 
of the nineteenth came, I found that the obliging, consolatory, 
and delightful paragraphs had made so little impression, that 
you want again to be told what those papers were written to tell 
you, and of what I can now tell you nothing new. I am as I 
was ; with no pain and little inconvenience from the great com- 
plaint, and feeling nothing from the gout but a little tenderness 
and weakness. 

Physiognomy, as it is a Greek word, ought to sound the G : 

' Ante^ ii. 338, «. 3. ' Ante^ ii. 338. ' Piozzi Letters^ ii. 318. 

but 



344 1^0 Mrs. Thrale. [a,i>. i783. 

but the French and Italians^ I think, spell it without the G ; and 
from them perhaps we learned to pronounce it. G, I thinks is 
sounded in formal, and sunk in familiar language. 

Mr. Pott was with me this morning, and still continues his 
disinclination to fire and sword. The operation is therefore 
still suspended ; not without hopes of relief from some easier and 
more natural way. 

Mrs. Porter the tragedian, with whom spent part of his 

earlier life, was so much the favourite of her time, that she 
was welcomed on the stage when she trod it by the help of a 
stick '. She taught her pupils no violent graces ; for she was 
a woman of very gentle and ladylike manners, though without 
much extent of knowledge, or activity of understanding. 

You are now retired, and have nothing to impede self-examina- 
tion or self-improvement. Endeavour to reform that instability 
of attention which your last letter has happened to betray. Per- 
haps it is natural for those that have much within to think little 
on things without ; but whoever lives heedlessly lives but in 
a mist, perpetually deceived by false appearances of the past, 
without any certain reliance on recollection. Perhaps this begins 
to be my state ; but I have not done my part very sluggishly, if 
it now begins. 

The hour of solitude is now come, and Williams is gone. But 
I am not, I hope, improperly dejected. A little I read, and a 
littie I think. I am, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

896. 

To Mrs. Thrale*. 
Madam, London, October 27, 1783. 

You may be very reasonably weary of sickness ; it is neither 
pleasant to talk nor to hear of it. I hope soon to lose the dis- 

' * She died about the year 1762. iii. 500. He said that he had never 

When Johnson, some years bdfore seen her equalled * in the vehemence 

her death, paid her a visit she ap- of rage.' Lt/ey iv. 243. According 

peared to him so wrinkled that, he to Horace Walpole *she surpassed 

said, a picture of old age in the Garrick in passionate tragedy.' 

abstract might be taken from her Letters^ iv. 336. 
countenance.' Davies's Dram, Misc, ' Pioszi LetterSy ii. 320. 

gusting 



Aetat. 74.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



345 



gusting topick ; for I have now neither pain nor sickness. My 
ancles are weak, and my feet tender. I have not tried to walk 
much above a hundred yards, and was glad to come back upon 
wheels. The Doctor and Mr. Metcalf ' have taken me out I 
sleep uncertainly and unseasonably. This is the sum of my 
complaint. I have not been so well for two years past The 
great malady is neither heard, seen, felt, nor — understood. But 
I am very solitary. 

Semperque relinqui 

Sola sibi, semper longam incomitata videtur 

Ire viam^ 

But I have begun to look among my books, and hope that I 
am all, whatever that was, which I have ever been. 

Mrs. Siddons in her visit to me behaved with great modesty 
and propriety, and left nothing behind her to be censured or 
despised. Neither praise nor money, the two powerful corrupters 
of mankind, seem to have depraved her. I shall be glad to see 
her again. Her brother Kemble calls on me, and pleases me 
very well. Mrs. Siddons and I talked of plays ; and she told me 
her intention of exhibiting this winter the characters of Constance, 
Catherine, and Isabella in Shakespeare ^. 



* In the autumn of the previous 
year Mr. Philip Metcalfe had taken 
Johnson out in his carriage, at 
Brighton. Ufe^ iv. 1 59. * Mr. Met- 
calfe seems,* writes Miss Bumey, * to 
have taken an unaccountable dislike 
to Mrs. Thrale, to whom he never 
speaks.' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary ^ 
ii. 172. 

» Virgil. jEneid^ iv. 466. 
' She seems alone 
To wander in her sleep through ways 

unknown, 
Guideless and dark.' 

Dryden. 

^ This passage is quoted by Bos- 
well in the Li/ey iv. 242. To Mrs. 
Siddons*s modesty testimony is borne 
by Horace Walpole, who wrote at 
Christmas, 1782: — * Mrs. Siddons 
continues to be the mode, and to be 



modest and sensible. She declines 
great dinners, and says her business 
and the cares of her family take up 
her whole time.* Letters, viii. 320. 
Kemble, who gave Boswell a minute 
of what passed at the interview with 
Johnson, says that the Doctor * asked 
her which of Shakspeare's characters 
she was most pleased with. Upon 
her answering that she thought the 
character of Queen Catharine, in 
Henry the Eighth, the most 
natural : — " I think so too. Madam, 
(said he ;) and whenever you perform 
it, I will once more hobble out to the 
theatre myself.** ' U/ey iv. 242. 

Eighteen years earlier in his 
edition of Shakespeare (ed. 1765, v. 
491) he had written :—* The meek 
sorrows and virtuous distress of 
Catharine have furnished some scenes 

I have 



346 



To Miss Reynolds. 



(;A.I>. 1788. 



I have had this day a letter from Mr. Mudge ; who, with all 
his earnestness for operation, thinks it better to wait the effects 
of time, and, as he says, to let well alone. To this the patient 
naturally inclines, though I am afraid of having the knife yet to 
endure when I can bear it less. Cruickshank was even now in 
doubt of the event ; but Pott, though never eager, had, or dis- 
covered, less fear. 

If I was a little cross, would it not have made patient Grisel 
cross, to find that you had forgotten the letter that you was 
answering ? But what did I care, if I did not love you ? You 
need not fear that another should get my kindness from you; 
that kindness which you could not throw away if you tried, you 
surely cannot lose while you desire to keep it. 

I am. Madam, 

Your, &c, 

Sam: Johnson. 

I have a letter signed S. A. Thrale ; I take S. A. to be Miss 
Sophy : but who is bound to recollect initials ? A name should 
be written, if not fully, yet so that it cannot be mistaken. 



896. 

To Miss Reynolds'. 

My dearest Dear, London, October 27, 1783. 

I am able enough to write, for I have now neither sick- 
ness nor pain ; only the gout has left my ancles somewhat 
weak. 

While the weather favours you, and the air does you good, 
stay in the country: when you come home, I hope we shall often 



which maybe justly numbered among 
the greatest efforts of tragedy. But 
the genius of Shakespeare comes in 
and goes out with Catharine. Every 
other part may be easily conceived 
and easily written.* 

Horace Walpole wrote on January 
15, 1788 : — * I asked Mrs. Siddons in 
which part she would most wish me 
to see her. She named Portia in the 
Merchcmt of Venice \ but I begged to 



be excused. With all my enthusiasm 
for Shakespeare, it is one of his plays 
that I like the least. The story of 
the caskets is silly, and except the 
character of Shylock, I see nothing 
beyond the attainment of a mortal. 
Euripides, or Racine, or Voltaire 
might have written all the rest* 
Letters^ ix. 124. 

* First published in Croker's Bos- 
weilj page 741. 

see 



▲etst. 74.] 



To Mrs. Thrale, 



347 



see one another, and enjoy that friendship to which no time is 
likely to put an end on the part of, 

Madam, 

Your most humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 

897. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 
Madam, London, Nov. i, 1783. 

You will naturally wish to know what was done by the 
robbers at the brewhouse '. They climbed by the help of the 
lamp iron to the covering of the door, and there opening the 
window, which was never fastened, entered and went down to 
the parlour, and took the plate off the sideboard ; but being in 
haste, and probably without light, they did not take it all. They 
then unlocked the street-door, and locking it again, carried away 
the key. The whole loss, as Mr. Perkins told me, amounts to 
near fifty pounds. 

Mr. Pott bade me this day take no more care about the tumour. 
The gout too is almost well in spite of all the luxury to which my 
friends have tempted me by a succession of pheasants, partridges, 
and other delicacies. But Nature has got the better. I hope to 
walk to church to-morrow. 

An air ballon has been lately procured by our virtuosi, but it 
performed very little to their expectation ^. 



* Piozzi Letters^ ii. 323. 

" The following entries in the 
Gentleman* s Magazine at this time 
show the dreadful state of the com- 
munity : — 

* October 28. Eleven malefactors 
were executed at Tyburn. Notwith- 
standing these numerous sacrifices to 
the justice of the country, no less 
than 160 criminals were to be tried 
at the Sessions at the Old Bailey 
that were to begin the very next day.* 

P. 973. 

* November i. To such a pitch 
of audacious villainy are the robbers 
about London arrived that ten of 
them armed with cutlasses and 
pistols, in two boats, boarded a vessel 



near Union Stairs, Wapping, about 
two this morning and stole thereout 
two bales of woollens.' lb, 

* November 4. The Sessions for the 
City of London ended, when six con- 
victs received sentence of death, 
which with twelve condemned on 
Saturday for Middlesex, make 
eighteen in all capitally convicted 
this Sessions. Villains increase so 
fast, that a bare recital of their names 
and atrocious crimes would more 
than fill our Magazine^ P. 974. 

' On November 26 one made of 
yellow taffety was launched in the 
Artillery Ground, in the sight of an 
almost incredible number of people. 
No one ascended. lb, p. 977. 

The 



348 To Mrs. Porter. [a.d. 1788. 

The air with which these balls are filled, is procured by dis- 
solving filings in the vitriolick (or I suppose sulphureous) acid ' ; 
but the smoke of burnt straw may be used, though its levity is 
not so great. 

If a case could be found at once light and strong, a man might 
mount with his will, and go whither the winds would carry him. 
The case of the ball which came hither was of goldbeaters' skin. 
The cases which have hitherto been used are apparently defective, 
for the ball came to the ground ; which they could never do, 
unless there were some breach made. 

How old is the boy that likes Rambler better than apples and 
pears? 

I shall be glad of Miss Sophy's letter, and will soon write to 

S. A. ; who, since she is not Sophy, must be Susy. Methinks it 

is long since I heard from Queeney. 

I am, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

898. 

To Mrs. Porter'. 
Dear Madam, 

The death of poor Mr. Porter ^, of which your maid has sent 

me an account, must have very much surprised you. The death 

of a friend is almost always unexpected : we do not love to think 

of if*, and therefore are not prepared for its coming. He 

was, I think, a religious man, and therefore that \sic\ his end 

was happy. 

Death has likewise visited my mournful habitation. Last 
month died Mrs. Williams ^ who had been to me for thirty 
years in the place of a sister : her knowledge was great, and her 
conversation pleasing. I now live in cheerless solitude. 

My two last years have passed under the pressure of successive 
diseases. I have lately had the gout with some severity. But 
I wonderfully escaped the operation which I mentioned, and am 
upon the whole restored to health beyond my own expectation. 

' AntCy ii. 333, «. 2. * He probably wrote * think on 

' First published in Malone's Bos- it.' 
well. ^ She had died on September 6 — 

^ H er second brother. Ufe^ i. 94, /r. 3. more than two months before. 

As 



Aetat. 74.] 



To Richard Jackson. 



349 



As we daily see our friends die round us, we that are left must 
cling closer, and, if we can do nothing more, at least pray for one 
another ; and remember, that as others die we must die too, and 
prepare ourselves diligently for the last great trial. 

I am, Madam, 

Yours affectionately, &c., 
Bolt-court, Fleet-street, Nov. lo, 1783. SaM: JOHNSON. 



899. 

DEAR Sir, '^^ ^^^"^^^ J^^'^"^'' ^- 

The Readership of the Temple ^ being vacant, I take the 



' From the original in the posses- 
sion of Mr. Frederick Barker, of 41, 
Gonterstone Road, West Kensington, 
London. 

The letter is not addressed, but at 
the foot is written in another hand, 
'Richard Jackson, Esq.' Johnson 
spoke of Jackson as *the all-know- 
ing ' ; on which Boswell has the 
following note ; — * A gentleman, who 
from his extraordinary stores of 
knowledge, has been stiled omms- 
cient, Johnson, I think very properly, 
altered it to all-knowing, as it is a 
verbum solenne^ appropriated to the 
Supreme Being.* Life^ iii. 19. 

Wraxall, who speaks of him as 
'Omniscient Jackson,' says that he 
was an intimate friend of Lord Shel- 
bume and a member of his Ministry. 
Wraxall's Memoirs^ ed. 181 5, ii. 61, 
235. * There was a silk gownsman,' 
said Bentham, ' who had never any 
business, but who went by the name 
of Omniscient Jackson. I gave the 
name to MaccuUoch (Dr) who was 
all omniscience, and praterea nihiU 
Bentham's Works ^ x. 285. 

Charles Lamb thus describes Jack- 
son in The Old Benchers of the Inner 
Temple :—* Jackson— the omniscient 
Jackson he was called— was of this 
period. He had the reputation of 



possessing more multi&rious know- 
lege than any man of his time. He 
was the Friar Bacon of the less 
literate portion of the Temple. I 
remember a pleasant passage of the 
cook applying to him, with much 
formality of apology, for instructions 
how to write down edg'e bone of beef 
in his bill of commons. He was sup- 
posed to know, if any man in the 
world did. He decided the ortho- 
graphy to be — as I have given it — 
fortifying his authority with such 
anatomical reasons as dismissed the 
manciple (for the time) learned and 
happy.* 

. ' * Since the reign of Henry VII L 
there has been a divine belonging to 
this church, named a master or 
custos. Besides the master there is 
a reader, who reads divine service 
twice a day, at eight o'clock in the 
morning and at four in the afternoon.* 
Dodsley's London and its Environs^ 
vi. 113. The Reader at this time 
would have but little help from the 
Master, Thomas Thurlow, who was 
also Dean of St. Paul's and Bishop 
of Lincoln. Letters ofRadcliffe and 
James f p. 232, n. i. 

Mr. Hoole read the church-service 
to Johnson on his deatli-bed. Li/e^ 
iv. 409. 

liberty 



350 To Mrs, Thrale. [a.i>. i783. 

liberty of entreating your Countenance and vote for Mr. Hoole, 
a young clergyman, whom I have known for a great part of his 
life, and whom I can confidently offer to your notice, as a Man 
of uncommon parts, and blameless character. 

I am, Sir, 

Your most humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 

Bolt-cour [sic\ Fleet Street, Nov. ii, 1783. 

900. 

DEAR MADAM, ^^^ ^^^^ '^^^^^^ '' 

Since you have written to me with the attention and tender- 
ness of ancient time, your letters give me a great part of the 
pleasure which a life of solitude admits. You will never bestow 
any share of your good will on one who deserves better. Those 
that have loved longest love best. A sudden blaze of kindness may 
by a single blast of coldness be extinguished, but that fondness 
which length of time has connected with with [sic] many circum- 
stances and occasions, though it may for a while [be] suppressed 
by disgust or resentment, with or without a cause, is hourly revived 
by accidental recollection. To those that have lived long together, 
every thing heard and every thing seen recals some pleasure 
communicated, or some benefit conferred, some petty quarrel, or 
some slight endearment. Esteem of great powers, or amiable 
qualities newly discovered, may embroider a day or a week, but 
a friendship of twenty years is interwoven with the texture of 
life. A friend may be often found and lost, but an old friend 
never can be found, and Nature has provided that he cannot 
easily be lost. 

I have not forgotten the Davenants ', though they seem to have 
forgotten me. I began very early to tell them what they have 
commonly found to be true. I am sorry to hear of their building. 
I have always warned those whom I loved, against that mode of 
ostentatious waste ^. 

' Piozzi Letters^ ii. 325. Corrected 47, Great Russell Street, London, 
by me from the original in the pos- ' Ante^ i. 333, n, i. 

session of the late Mr. S.J. Davey, of ^ Ante^ i. 99. 

You 



Aetot. 74.] 



To Miss S, A, Thrale, 



351 



You seem to mention Lord Kilmurrey' as a stranger. We 
were at his house in Cheshire ; and he one day dined with Sir 
Lynch. What he tells of the epigram is not true, but perhaps 
he does not know it to be false. Do not you remember how he 
rejoiced in having no park ? He could not disoblige his neigh- 
bours by sending them no venison. 

The frequency of death, to those who look upon it in the leisure 
of Arcadia', is very dreadful. We all know what it should teach 
us ; let us all be diligent to learn. Lucy Porter has lost her 
brother. But whom I have lost — let me not now remember^. 
Let not your loss be added to the mournful catalogue. Write 
soon again to Madam, 

Your most humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 

London, Nov. 13, 1783. 
To Mrs. Thrale at Bath. 

901. 

To Miss S. A. Thrale 1 

Dear Miss, 

Here is a whole week, and nothing heard from your house. 
Baretti said what a wicked house it would be^ and a wicked 
house it is. Of you however I have no complaint to make, for 



' When Johnson was at Comber- 
mere, he visited Lord Kilmorey's 
house — Shavington Hall, in Shrop- 
shire. * He shewed the place with too 
much exultation,' he recorded. * He 
has no park, and little water.' Life, 

V. 433- 
' He had quoted Sidney's Arcadia 

a few weeks earlier. Ante^ ii. 331. 

' He was thinking of that friend 

'whose face for fifteen years had 

never been turned upon him but with 

respect and benignity — whose favour 

he enjoyed for almost a fourth part of 

his life.* Life^ iv. 84-5. The ninth 

day after the date of Johnson's letter 

Miss Bumey ' passed in nothing but 

sorrow — exquisite sorrow for my dear 

unhappy friend, who sent me one 



letter that came early by the Bath 
Diligence and another by the post.' 
Her friend was Mrs. Thrale, whose 
unhappiness was caused by her 
struggles to overcome her love for 
Piozzi, to whom she had engaged 
herself in the spring of this year. 
Mme. D'Arblay's Diary ^ ii. 285, and 
Hay ward's Piozzi^ i. 105. 

* Piozzi Letters^ ii. 327. 

Miss S. A. Thrale was Susanna 
Thrale, as is shown, ante^ ii. 348. 
Of her alone of all Mrs. Thrale's 
children I have not been able to ob- 
tain a certificate of birth or baptisno. 

' * A hint I gave to Johnson, but 
he would not take it, because he 
never thought or would think of 
Piozzi.'— Baretti. 

I owe 



352 



To Miss S. A. Tkrale. 



[A.D. 1788. 



I owe you a letter. Still I live here by my own self, and have 
had of late verj' bad nights ; but then I have had a pig to dinner, 
which Mr. Perkins gave me. Thus life is chequered. 

I cannot tell you much news, because I see nobody that you 
know. Do you read the Tatlers ? They are part of the books 
which every body should read, because they are the sources of 
conversation', therefore make them part of your library. Bicker- 
staff, in the Tatler, gives as a specimen of familiar letters, an 
account of his cat *. I could tell you as good things of Lily the 
white kitling, who is now at full growth, and very well behaved ; 
but I do not see why we should descend below human beings, 
and of one human being I can tell something that you will like 
to hear. 

A friend, whose name I will tell when your Mamma has tried 
to guess it, sent to my physician to enquire whether this long 
train of illness ^ had brought me into any difficulties for want of 
money, with an invitation to send to him for what occasion re- 
quired. I shall write this night to thank him \ having no need 
to borrow. 

I have seen Mr. Seward since his return only once ; he gfave 
no florid account of my mistress's health ^ Tell her that I 



* * It is said by Addison, in a sub- 
sequent work, that the Tatler and 
Spectator had a perceptible influence 
upon the conversation of that time, 
and taught the frolic and the gay to 
unite merriment with decency; an 
effect which they can never wholly 
lose, while they continue to be among 
the first books by which both sexes 
are initiated in the elegancies of 
knowledge.* Johnson's Worksy vii. 
430. The * subsequent work ' is The 
Freeholder^ No. 45. 

' Writing of his little dog and cat 
he says : — * They both of 'em sit by 
my fire every night, expecting my 
coming home with impatience ; and 
at my entrance never fail of running 
up to me, and bidding me welcome, 
each of 'em in his proper language. 
As they have been bred up together 
from their infancy and seen no other 



company, they have learned each 
other's manners, so that the dog often 
gives himself the airs of a cat, and 
the cat, in several of her motions and 
gestures, affects the behaviour of the 
little dog.' Tlie Tatler^ No. 112. 

^ Johnson had perhaps in mind 
* the train of ills ' in Addison's Caio^ 
Act iii. sc. 2. 

* See Life^ iv. 245, for his letter to 
W. G. Hamilton, dated the next 
day. 

^ Mrs. Thrale wrote to Miss 
Bumey three months later : — * Mr. 
Seward's disapprobation [of her affec- 
tion for Piozzi] is merely external, and 
by no means, like yours, the growth 
of his heart ; but the coarseness of 
his expressions he has to himself, and 
I cannot guess how I have deserved 
them.' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary ^ 
ii. 306. 

hearken 



Aetat. 74.] 



To Miss Bumey. 



353 



hearken every day after a letter from her % and do not be long 

before you write yourself to, 

My dear, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

902. 

To Miss BuRNEY^ 

Madam, 

You have been at home a long time, and I have never seen 
you nor heard from you. Have we quarreled ? 

I have sent a book which I have found lately, and im- 
agine to be Dr. Bumey's. Miss Charlotte^ will please to 
examine. 

Pray write me a direction of Mrs. Chapone^ and pray 



' Johnson gives as one definition 
of hearkerty *to listen by way of 
curiosity ' ; and quotes from Richard 
JIIj Act i. sc. I, *He hearkens 
after prophecies and dreams/ and 
from Rogers [? Dr. John Rogers] * he 
hearkens after any expedient that 
offers to shorten his way to it.* 

" From the original in the posses- 
sion of Mrs. Haly, 25 Mount Sion, 
Tunbridge Wells, to whom it was 
given by a daughter of Admiral 
Bumey— Miss Bume/s brother. In 
Mme. D'Arblay's Diary^ ii. 283, and 
in her Memoirs of Dr, Bumey , ii. 
356, an incorrect copy is given, which 
Miss Bumey, not having the letter 
by her, wrote down from memory. 
She gives also her reply as follows : — 

* Dear Sir, 

May I not say dear? for 
quarrelled I am sure we have not. 
The bad weather alone has kept me 
from waiting upon you ; but now you 
have condescended to give me a 
summons, no lion shall stand in the 



way of my making your tea this after- 
noon, unless I receive a prohibition 
from yourself, and then I must 
submit ; for what, as you said of a 
certain great lady, signifies the bark- 
ing of a lap-dog, if once the lion puts 
out his paw ? 

The book was very right. Mrs. 
Chapone lives at either No. 7 or 8 in 
Dean Street, Soho. 

I beg you. Sir, to forgive a delay 
for which I can only *' tax the elements 
with unkindness *," and to receive 
with your usual goodness and indul- 
gence, your ever most obliged and 
most faithful humble servant, 

F. BURNEY. 

St. Martin's Street, Nov. 19, 1783.^ 

The * great lady* was Mrs. 
Montagu. Memoirs of Dr. Bumey y 
ii. 357 note. 

^ Charlotte Bumey, afterwards 
Mrs. Broome. Mme. D'Arblay's 
Diary^ vi. 193. 

* Johnson wrote to Mrs. Chapone 
on the 28th. Lifey iv. 247. 



VOL. II. 



♦ King Lear, Act Hi. sc. a. 
Aa 



let 



354 



To Miss Burney. 



[A.I>. 1788. 



let me sometimes have the honour of telling you, how much 
I am, 

Madam, 

Your most humble servant, 
Bolt-court, Nov. 19, 1783. SaM: JOHNSON *. 

At the foot of this letter is written in Miss Burney's hand : — * F. B. 
flew to him instantly and most gratefully.' 



908. 

To Miss BURNEV^ 

Mr. Johnson begs of Miss Burney that she will favour him 

with a copy of Cecilia to lend a friend. 

Saturday. 



' Miss Burney with an overstrained 
delicacy refused to allow Boswell to 
print Johnson*s letters to her. * One 
I have from him,' she writes, * that is 
a masterpiece of elegance and kind- 
ness united. Twas his last.' Boswell, 
she says, called upon her when she 
was at Windsor, and begged for her 
help : — 

'"My help?" 

" Yes, Madam ; you must give me 
some of your choice little notes of the 
Doctor's ; we have seen him long 
enough upon stilts ; I want to show 
him in a new light. Grave Sam, and 
great Sam, and solemn Sam, and 
learned Sam, — all these he has ap- 
peared over and over. Now I want 
to entwine a wreath of the graces 
across his brow ; I want to show him 
as gay Sam, agreeable Sam, pleasant 
Sam; so you must help me with 
some of his beautiful billets to your- 
self.'' * She was too shy by nature to 
yield, and moreover at this time she 
was oppressed by the propriety of 
a Court. Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, 
V. 167. See also Memoirs of Dr, 
Burney y iii. 1 14. 

' From the original in the pos- 
session of Mrs. £. V. Chappel, of 
East Orchard, Shaftesbury. 



Cecilia was published in the sum- 
mer of 1782, more than four years after 
Miss Bumey*s first novel Evelina, 
Boswell wrote to Mrs. Thrale from 
Edinburgh on December 20, 1782 : — 
* Everybody here is^ running after 
Cecilia, and I am vain of telling that 
I have had the pleasure of being 
frequently in Miss Burney 's company 
at Mrs. Thrale's.' From an Auto- 
graph Letter in the possession of ike 
late Mr, S, J, Davey, He had met 
her six months earlier in Johnson's 
house. * I mentioned Cecilia, JOHN- 
SON (with an air of animated satis- 
faction). " Sir, if you talk of Cecilia^ 
talk on." ' Life, iv. 223. Mrs. Bar- 
bauld wrote to her brother on January 
2, 1784 : — *Next to the balloon, Miss 
B. is the object of public curiosity. 
She is a very unaffected, modest, 
sweet, and pleasing young lady ; — 
but you, now I think of it, are a 
Goth, and have not read Cecilia,^ 
Barbauld's Works, ii. 23. Horace 
Walpole wrote on September 17, 
1785 : — * Dr. Burney and his daughter 
Evelina-Cecilia, have passed a day 
and a half with me. He is lively and 
agn'eeable, she half-and-half sense 
and modesty, which possess her so 
entirely that not a cranny is left for 

To 



Aetat. 74.] To the Reverend Dr. Taylor. 355 

904. 

To THE Reverend Dr. Taylor '. 

Dear Sir, 

You desire me to write often, and I write the same day, and 
should be sorry to miss any thing that might give you ease or 
pleasure ^ 

From the fatigue of your journey no harm, I hope, will ensue. 
Exercise short of great fatigue must be your great medicine, but 
painful weariness I would wish you to avoid ^ You will do well, 
if you have recourse again to milk, which once restored you be- 
yond expectation, and will now perhaps help you again *. 

It does not appear from your Doctor's prescription that he 
sees to the bottom of your distemper. What he gives you 
strikes at no cause, and is only intended for an occasional exciter 
of the stomach. 

Exercise yourself every morning, and when you can catch a 
momentaiy appetite, have always something ready. Toast and 
hot wine will be good, or a jelly, or potted meats, or anything 
that can be eaten without trouble, and dissolves of itself by 
warmth and moisture. Let nothing fret you ; Care is all [? al- 
ways] a slow, and may now be to you a quick poison. No 
worldly thing but your health is now worth your thought, if any 
thing troublesome occurs, drive it away without a parley. If I 
were with you, perhaps I might help to keep you easy, but we 
are at a great distance. 

I do not think that you have so much to hope from physick as 
from regimen. Keep a constant attention to petty conveniencies. 
Suffer neither heat nor cold in a disagreeable degree. Beware of 
costiveness. Take the air every morning, and very often let me 
know how you do, and what you eat or drink and how you rest. 

affectation or pretension.* Letters^ feelings.* Lockhart's Scott ^ ed. 1839, 

ix. 1 3. More than forty years later, ix. 50. 

on November 18, 1826, Sir Walter * From the original in the posses- 
Scott describes her as * an elderly sion of Messrs. J. Pearson & Co., of 
lady, with no remains of personal 5 Pall Mall East, 
beauty, but with a simple and gentle ' Dr. Taylor was ill. Post^ p. 357. 
manner, a pleasing expression of ^ Antiy ii. 99, 102. 
countenance, and apparently quick ^ Ante^ ii. 234, 236. 

A a a My 



356 To Mrs. Tkrale. [a.d.178S. 

My nights are restless, but my sarcocele * gives me no trouble, 
and the gout is gone, and my respiration when I am up not 
uneasy. 

Let us pray for one another. 

I am, dear Sir, 

Yours affectionately, 

Sam: Johnson. 

London, Nov. 19, 1783. 
To the Reverend Dr. Taylor in Ashbourne, Derbyshire. 

905. 

To THE Right Hon. William Gerard Hamilton. 
[London], November 19, 1783. Published in the Ufe^ iv. 245. 

906. 

To Mrs. Thrale*. 

Dear Madam, London, Nov. 20, 1783. 

I began to grieve and wonder that I had no letter, but not 
being much accustomed to fetch in evil by circumspection or 
anticipation, did not suspect that the omission had so dreadful 
a cause as the sickness of one of my dears. As her physician 
thought so well of her when you wrote, I hope she is now out of 
danger. You do not tell me her disease ; and perhaps have not 
been able yourself fully to understand it. I hope it is not of the 
cephalick race^ 

That frigid stillness with which my pretty Sophy melts away, 
exhibits a temper very incommodious in sickness, and by no 
means amiable in the tenour of llfe^ Incommunicative taciturnity 
neither imparts nor invites friendship ^, but reposes on a stubborn 
sufficiency self-centered, and neglects the interchange of that 

' Ante^ ii. 335. * Johnson in The IdUr, No. 103, 

' Piozzi Letters^ ii. 329. has * an even and unvaried tenour 

^ Johnson defines cephalick as of life.* When he wrote this he 

* that which is medicinal to the head.* perhaps had in his mind * the 

He does not give a definition which noiseless tenour of their way ' of 

includes * that which pertains to the Gray's Elegy, 

head.* What he dreaded was an ^ * This is the present case of 

illness of the same kind as that Hetty [Miss Thrale—Queeney] rather 

which had carried off many of Mrs. than Sophy.* Baretti. 
Thrale's children. 

social 



Aetat. 74.] To the Rcvercnd Dr. Taylor. 



357 



social officiousness * by which we are habitually endeared to one 
another. They that mean to make no use of friends, will be at 
little trouble to gain them ; and to be without friendship, is to be 
without one of the first comforts of our present state. To have 
no assistance from other minds, in resolving doubts, in appeasing 
scruples, in balancing deliberations, is a very wretched destitution. 
If therefore my loves have this silence by temper, do not let 
them have it by principle ; show them that it is a perverse and 
inordinate disposition, which must be counteracted and reformed. 
Have I said enough ? 

Poor Dr. Taylor represents himself as ill ; and I am afraid is 
worse than in the summer. My nights are very bad ; but of the 
sarcocele I have now little but the memory. 

I am, Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

807. 
^ ^ To THE Reverend Dr. Taylor *. 

Dear Sir, 

You desired me to write often, and I now write though 
I have nothing new to tell you, for I know that in the tediousness 
of ill health a letter always gives some diversion to the mind, 
and I am afraid that you live too much in solitude. 

[I] feel the weight of solitude very pressing ; after a night of 
broken and uncomfortable slumber I rise to a solitary breakfast, 
and sit down in the evening with no companion ^ Sometimes 
however I try to read more and more. 



' Johnson defines officiousness as 
' forwardness of civility, or respect, 
or endeavour. Commonly in an ill 
sense/ Mrs. Piozzi, criticising the 
line in which he praises Levett as 
* Offidous, innocent, sincere,* 
says:— * Johnson, always thinking 
neglect the worst misfortune that 
could befall a man, looked on a 
character of this description with 
less aversion than I do.' British 
Synonomyy ii. 79. She did not under- 
stand that he used officious in the 



sense of ' kind ; doing good offices/ 
and not in the sense of * importunely 
forward.' 

' First published in Notes and 
Queries^ 6th S. v. 482. 

^ Levett had * always waited upon 
him every morning, through the 
whole course of his late and tedious 
breakfast,' and with Mrs. Williams 
he had always taken tea, however 
late he might be in coming home. 
LAfe^ i. 343, 421. 

You 



358 



To Sir John Hawkins, 



[A.I>. 1783. 



You must likewise write to me and tell me how you live, and 
with what diet. Your milk kept you so well that I know not 
why you forsook it, and think it very reasonable to try it again *. 
Do not omit air and gentle exercise. 

The ministry talk of laying violent hands on the East India 
company, even to the abolition or at least suspension of their 
charter *. I believe corruption and oppression are in India at an 
enormous height, but it has never appeared that they were 
promoted by the Directors, who, I beUeve, see themselves de- 
frauded, while the country is plundred ; but the distance puts 
their officers out of reach ^, and I doubt whether the government, 
in its present state of diminished credit, will do more than g^ve 
another evidence of its own imbedllity \sic\ *. 

You and I however have more uigent cares, than for the East 

Indian company. We are old and unhealthy. Let us do what 

we can to comfort one another. 

I am, dear Sir, &c., 

London, Nov. 32, 1783. SaM : JOHNSON. 

To the Rev. Dr. Taylor in Ashbourne, Derbyshire. 

908. 

Dear Sir ^^ ^'^ John Hawkins ^ 

As Mr. Ryland was talking with me of old friends and past 



' Ante, ii. 355. 

' On November 20, Fox had 
brought in his East India Bill, 'a 
singularly bold and original plan for 
the government of the British terri- 
tories in India. WTiat was proposed 
was that the whole authority, which 
till that time had been exercised over 
those territories by the East India 
Company, should be transferred to 
seven Commissioners who were to 
be named by Parliament, and were 
not to be removable at the pleasure 
of the Crown.' Macaulay's Miscel- 
laneous Writings^ ed. 1871, p. 406. 

^ * All distant power,' said Johnson, 
*is bad. I am clear that the best 
plan for the government of India is 
a despotick govemour ; for if he be 
a good man, it is evidently the best 



government ; and supposing him to be 
a bad man, it is better to have one 
plunderer than many.' Life^ iv. 213. 

* Johnson showed more foresight 
than Horace Walpole, who wrote 
early in December : — * Mr. Fox's 
competitor, Mr. Pitt, appears by no 
means an adequate rival. . • . The 
opponents of the Bill have no ho|>es 
but in the House of Lords, where 
however I do not believe they expect 
to succeed. Mr. Pitt's reputation is 
much sunk.* Letters^ \'iii. 437-9. 
On December 19 Pitt became First 
Lord of the Treasury, and formed 
that Ministry which lasted seventeen 
years. 

^ First published in Hawkins's 
Ufe of Johnson^ page 562. 

Hawkins records that Johnson said 

times. 



Aetat. 74.] 



To Mrs. Tkrale. 



359 



times, we warmed ourselves into a wish, that all who remained of 
the Club should meet and dine at the house which once was 
Horseman's, in Ivy-lane. I have undertaken to solicit you, and 
therefore desire you to tell on what day next week you can con- 
veniently meet your old friends. 

I am. Sir, 

Your most humble servant, 
Bolt-court, Nov. 22, 1783. SaM: JOHNSON. 



909. 

To Mrs. Thrale*. 
Dear Madam, London, Nov. 24, 1783. 

The post came in late to-day, and I had lost hopes. If the 
distress of my dear little girl keep me anxious, I have much 
consolation from the maternal and domestick character of your 
dear letters. 

I do not much fear her pretty life, because scarcely any body 
dies of her disorder ; but it is an unpromising entry upon a new 
period of life : and there is, I suspect, danger lest she should have 
to struggle for some years with a tender, irritable, and as it is 
not very properly called, a nervous constitution '. But we will 
hope better ; and please ourselves with thinking that nature, or 



to him this month: — 'What a man 
am I, who have got the better of 
three diseases, the palsy, the gout, 
and the asthma, and can now enjoy 
the conversation of my friends with- 
out the interruptions of weakness 
or pain ! ' It was, in what Hawkins 
calls ' this seeming spring-tide of his 
health and spirits' that Johnson 
wrote this Letter. The old Club 
'had been formed in the winter of 
1749, and had met weekly at the 
King's Head, a famous beef-steak 
house in Ivy-lane, near St. Paul's, 
every Tuesday evening.' Jb, p. 219, 
and Li/€, i. 190 ; iv. 253, 435. ' Ivy- 
lane runs from Paternoster Row into 
Newgate Street This lane took its 
name from the Ivy which grew on 
the walls of the prebends' houses, 



formerly situated here. Stow* Dods- 
ley's London and its Environs^ iiL 
265. Goldsmith in his Essay on 
Clubs says : — * If a man be phleg- 
matic he may sit in silence at the 
hum-drum club in Ivy-lane.' Gold- 
smith's Works^ ed. 1801, iv. 302. 
According to a writer in the Builder 
(December, 1884), * The King's Head 
was burnt down twenty-five years 
ago, but the cellarage remains be- 
neath No. 4, Alldis's dining-rooms, 
on the eastern side.' 

' Piozzi Letters y ii. 331. 

' Johnson in his Dictionary gives 
as the second meaning of nervous^ 
'relating to the nerves; having the 
seat in the nerves. [In medical cant] 
Having weak or diseased nerves.* 

physick, 



36o To Mrs. Tkrale. [a.d.1788. 

physick, will gain a complete victory; that dear Sophy will 
quite recover, and that she and her sister will love one another 
one degree more for having felt and excited pity, for having- 
wanted and given help. 

I received yesterday from your physicians a note, from which 
I received no information ; they put their heads together to tell 
me nothing. Be pleased to write punctually yourself, and leave 
them to their trade. Let me have something every post till my 
dear Sophy is better. 

My nights are often very troublesome, so that I try to sleep in 

the day. The old convulsions of the chest have a mind to fasten 

their fangs again upon me. I am afraid that winter will pinch 

me. But I will struggle with it, and hope to hold out yet against 

heat and cold. , ,, , 

I am, Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam : Johnson. 

810. 

To Mrs. Thrale*. 
Dear Madam, London, Nov. 27, 1783. 

I had to-day another trifling letter from the physicians. Do 
not let them fill your mind with terrours which perhaps they 
have not in their own ; neither suffer yourself to sit forming 
comparisons between Sophy and her dear father ; between whom 
there can be no other resemblance, than that of sickness to sick- 
ness. Hystericks and apoplexies have no relation. Hystericks 
commonly cease at the times when apoplexies attack ; and very 
rarely can be said to shorten life. They are the bugbears of 
disease, of great terrour but little danger. 

Mrs. Byron' has been with me to-day to enquire after Sophy ; 
I sent her away free from the anxiety which she brought with her. 

Do however what the Doctors order ; they know well enough 

what is to be done. My pretty Sophy will be well, and Bath 

will ring with the great cure. , o 

X am, occ, 

Sam: Johnson, 

* Piozzi Letters y ii. 332. 2 ^nte^ ii. 79. 

To 



Aotat. 74.] 



To Mrs, Tkrale. 



361 



811. 

To Mrs. Chapone. 
[London], November 28, 1783. Published in the Lifcy iv. 247. 

812. 

To Mrs. THRALE^ 
Dear Madam, London, Nov. 29, 1783. 

The life of my dear, sweet, pretty, lovely, delicious Miss 
Sophy is safe ; let us return thanks to the great Giver of exist- 
ence, and pray that her continuance amongst us may be a blessing 
to herself and to those that love her. Multosetf dices ^ my dear girl*. 

Now she is recovered, she must write me a little history of her 
sufferings, and impart her schemes of study and improvement ^ 
Life, to be worthy of a rational being, must be always in 
progression ; we must always purpose to do more or better than 
in time past. The mind is enlarged and elevated by mere 
purposes, though they end as they begin by airy contemplation. 
We compare and judge, though we do not practise ^ 

She will go back to her arithmetick again ; a science which 
will always delight her more, as by advancing further she discerns 
more of its use, and a science devoted to Sophy's ease of mind ; 
for you told in the last winter that she loved metaphysicks 
more than romances. Her choice is certainly as laudable as it 
is uncommon ; but I would have her like what is good in both. 

God bless you and your children ; so says. 

Dear Madam, 

Your old Friend, 

Sam : Johnson. 



* Piozzi Letters^ ii. 334. 

' ' And so say L' Baretti. Their 
prayer that many happy years might 
fall to her lot was only granted in 
part. *She died on November 8, 
1824, at Sandgate, the wife of Henry 
Merrick Hoare. She never had any 
children.' MS. note in the copy of 
the Piozzi Letters which had be- 
longed to Baretti. 

' For Johnson's * schemes of life ' 
see ante^ ii. 300, n. 3. 

^ Boswell quotes this passage. Life^ 



iv. 396, «. 4. With ' airy contempla- 
tion * compare line 10 in The Vanity 
of Human Wishes^ where the poet 
describes how man — 
' Shuns fancied ills, or chases airy 

good.' 
In RasselaSy ch. 44, he says : — * No 
man will be found in whose mind' 
airy notions do not sometimes tyran- 
nise, and force him to hope or fear 
beyond the limits of sober proba- 
bility.' 

To 



362 



To the Reverend Dr. Taylor. f a.i>. i7a3. 



913. 

To THE Reverend Dr. Taylor *. 

Dear Sir, 
Your Doctor's fixed air recommends him but little to my 
esteem'; I like Doxy's^ prescription better, and your own 
regimen better than either. By persevering in the use of milk 
I doubt not but you will gain health enough to keep your 
residence ^ and that we can consult at leisure what may be best 
for both. This is but at two months distance. If your health 
or safety could be much promoted by any attention of mine, 
I would come do^Ti, but my own sickliness makes me unwilling 
to be far from my Physicians, and unless I were sure of some 
considerable good, such a journey is not to be undertaken. If 
I come to you, I must go to Lichfield. 

While milk agrees with you, do not be persuaded to forsake 
it. Go to bed, and rise, as Nature dictates, not by rule but 
according to convenience. Make your mind easy, and trust God. 

My time passes uncomfortably, my nights have been of late 
spasmodick without opium and sleepless with it. I hope that when 
wc meet we shall both be better \ 

I am. Sir, 

Your most humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 

London, Nov. 29, 1783. 
To the Reverend Dr. Taylor in Ashbourne, Derbyshire. 



* From the original. I have care- 
lessly failed to record the name of 
the correspondent to whose kindness 
I owe a copy of this Letter. 

' * Carbonic acid was long known 
before its nature was understood. 
Black gave it the name of fixed air.* 
Penny Cyclo,^ ed. 1836, vi. 282. In 
a review in the Gentlematis Maga- 
zine for 1773, p. 447, of Dr. Priest- 
ley's Observations on different Kinds 
of Air it is stated that * the three 
terms in common use for distinguish- 
ing the different kinds of air are 
Fixed air, Mephitic and Inflammable.' 
The use which Taylor's doctor would 
have made of * fixed air ' is perhaps 



explained in the same review, where 
mention is made of *the effects of 
fixed air applied by way of clyster in 
the case of a putrid fever.' See eUso 
ib, p. 553. 

^ See antCy ii. 129, «. i, for mention 
of Garrick's niece, Miss Doxy. 

^ He had to keep his residence as 
Prebendary of Westminster. U/e^ 

ii. 473. 

5 In 1783, probably about this time, 
for it was when Johnson was very 
poorly, he dined with the Duke of 
Chaulnes at the Adelphi, as the fol- 
lowing letter shows : — 

* The Duke of Chaulnes' best com- 
pliments to Doctor Bumey: he 

To 



Aetat. 74.] 



To Sir John Hawkins. 



363 



914. 

To Mrs. Porter. 
London, November 29, 1783. Published in the Life^ iv. 256. 

815. 

To Sir John Hawkins'. 

Dear Sir, 

In perambulating Ivy-lane, Mr. Ryland found neither our 
landlord Horseman nor his successor. The old house is shut up, 
and he liked not the appearance of any near it; he therefore 
bespoke our dinner at the Queen's Arms, in St Paul's Church- 
yard ', where, at half an hour after three, your company will be 
desired to-day by those who remain of our former society. 

Your humble servant, 

Dec. 3 [1783.] Sam : Johnson. 



desires the favour of his company 
to dinner with Doctor Johnson on 
Sunday next, between about three 
and four o'clock, which is the hour 
convenient to the excellent old Doctor, 
the best piece of man, indeed, that 
the Duke ever saw.' Memoirs of 
Dr, Bumey, ii. 338. 

' First published in Hawkins's 
Life 0/ Johnson, page 563. 

* With this invitation,* writes Haw- 
kins, 'I cheerfully complied, and 
met all who could be mustered of 
our society, namely Johnson, Mr. Ry- 
land, and Mr. Payne of the Bank. 
In the evening we regaled with coffee. 
At ten we broke up, much to the 
regret of Johnson, who proposed 
staying ; but finding us inclined to 
separate, he left us with a sigh that 
seemed to come from his heart, 
lamenting that he was retiring to 
solitude and cheerless meditation.' 

John Payne had been a bookseller, 
but was now Chief Accountant of the 
Bank. Li/Cy i. 317, «. i. * He was,' 
says Isaac Reed, 'of a very diminu- 
tive appearance. Once Johnson in 
a gaiety of humour proposed to run 



a race with him. Before they had 
run half the distance Johnson caught 
his litde adversary up in his arms, 
and without any ceremony placed 
him upon the arm of a tree which 
was near, and then condnued running 
as if he had met with a hard match.' 
Croker's Boswelly ed. 1835, x. 145. 

" It was at the Queen's Arms 
that Johnson's City Club met, which 
was composed of men who were 
not patriots^ collected for him by 
Mr. Hoole. Li/ey iv. 87. Jeremy 
Bentham was a member. 'Tasso 
Hoole,' he writes, * was one of Dr. 
Johnson's lickspittles. He had, I 
think, a place at the East India 
House ; and got money by plays and 
translations, which he got people to 
subscribe for. He even asked me 
for subscriptions, though he lived in 
style — asked me who lived in beg- 
gary ! He got me to subscribe, and 
Chamberlain Clarke forced him to 
give back the money.' Bentbam's 
Works yX, 184. For Hoole's generous 
conduct about one of his plays which 
had not succeeded, see Ld/ey ii. 289, 



«. 3' 



To 



364 



To Mrs. Tkrale. 



[AJ9.1789L 



916. 

To Sir Joshua Reynolds. 
[London], December 4, 1783. Published in the Ufe^ iv. 253. 



917. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 
Dear Madam, London, Dec 13, 1783. 

I think it long since I wrote, and sometimes venture to hope 

that you think it long too. The intermission has been filled with 

spasms, opiates, sleepless nights; and heavy days. These vellica- 

tions* of my breast shorten my breath ; whether they will much 

shorten my life I know not, but I have been for some time past 

very comfortless. My friends here ever continue kind, and much 

notice is taken of me. 

I had two pretty letters from Susy and Sophy, to which I will 
send answers, for they are two dear girls. You must all guess 
again at my friend ^ 

I dined about a fortnight ago with three old friends ; we had 
not met together for thirty years, and one of us thought the 
other* grown very old. In the thirty years two of our set 
have died ^ ; our meeting may be supposed to be somewhat 



/ 



' Piozzi Letters^ ii. 339. 

From the day after that on which 
he wrote this letter he was confined 
to the house for 129 days. Post^ 
Letters of March 10 and April 21, 

1784. 

' *Vellication. Twitching; stimu- 
lation.' Johnson's Dictionary, 

^ Ante, ii. 352. 

* Johnson, I conjecture, wrote * the 
others.* It was Hawkins perhaps 
who thought his friends grown old. 
* I could not but compare our meet- 
ing,' he writes, * to that of the four 
old men in the Senile Colloquium of 
Erasmus.* Hawkins's Johnson^ p. 

563. 
' Johnson, posty p. 390, says that 

it was three and thirty years ago 

that the Club met, and that all the 



members were alive but Hawkes- 
worth and Dyer. The Club which 
Hawkins describes had ten mem- 
bers, — Johnson, Hawkins, Ryland, 
Payne, Barker, Salter, Dyer, M'Ghie, 
Bathurst and Hawkesworth. Of these 
the last six were dead. Hawkins 
adds that it was formed in the winter 
of 1749, and broke up about the 
year 1756. Hawkins's Johnson^ pp. 
219, 361. The difference between 
his account and Johnson's is irre- 
concilable. I conjecture that the Old 
Club was dissolved earlier than he 
states, and that a second was formed 
composed only of six members. Ac- 
cording to Nichols {Lit, Anec, ix. 
502) the Club was Imown as The 
Rambler Club. Perhaps this was 
a second Club. 

tender. 



Aetat. 74.] To the Reverettd Dr. Taylor. 



365 



tender. I boasted that I had passed the day with three friends, 
and that no mention had been made among any of us of the air 
ballon, which has taken full possession, with a very good claim, 
of every philosophical mind and mouth '. Do you not wish for 
the flying coach ' ? 

Take care of your own health, compose your mind, and you 
have yet strength of body to be well. 

I am, Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

918. 

To THE Reverend Dr. Taylor ^ 

Dear Sir, 

Perhaps you wonder that I do not write. I am very severely 
crushed [? harassed] by my old spasm which suffers [? suffering] 
me to get no sleep in the night, necessarily condemns the day to 
sluggishness and restlessness. I am indeed exceedingly distressed. 
I think you have chosen well, in taking a later month for 
yourself*, but I was sorry to miss you so long a time. I am 



' Horace Walpole wrote a few 
days earlier : — * Balloons occupy 
senators, philosophers, ladies, every- 
body. . . . All this may be very im- 
portant ; to me it looks somewhat 
foolish.' Letters y viii. 438. Ben- 
jamin Franklin wrote to Sir J. Banks 
from Passy near Paris on November 
21 : — * A few months since the Idea 
of Witches riding through the Air 
upon a Broomstick and that of 
Philosophers upon a bag of Smoke 
would have appeared equally im- 
possible and ridiculous.' Messrs. 
Sotheby & Co.'s Auction Catalogue ^ 
March 1 1, 1886, Lot 1281. 'Beaucoup 
de gens qui se piquent de rester 
froids au milieu de Tenthousiasme 
public n*ont pas manqud de rdp^ter : 
— "Mais quelle utilite retirera-t-on 
de ces experiences ? A quoi bon cette 
d^couverte dont on fait tant de 
bruit." Le v^n^rable Franklin leur 
r^pond avcc sa simplicitd accou- 



tum^ : — " Eh ! k quoi bon Penfant 
qui vient de naftre?*" Mimoires 
Historiques^ &c Par Grimm et 
Diderot, ed. 18 14, iii. 66. 

' Eight years later Darwin wrote 
in his Economy of Vegetation^ i. 
289:— 

'Soon shall thy arm, unconquer'd 
Steam! afar 
Drag the slow barge, or drive the 

rapid car ; 
Or on wide-waving wings expanded 

bear 
The flying-chariot through the fields 
of air.' 
' From the original in the Dreer 
Autograph Collection belonging to 
the Historical Society of Pennsyl- 
vania. I owe the copy to the kind- 
ness of Mr. John W. Jordan the 
Assistant Librarian. 

* The month, no doubt, in which 
he should reside as a Prebendary of 
Westminster. 

indeed 



366 To Miss Reynolds. [a.i>. its*. 

indeed heavily loaded with distempers. Sometimes I fancy that 

exercise would help me, but exercise I know not how to get. 

Sometimes I think that a warmer climate would relieve me, but 

the removal requires a great deal of money. At present I subsist 

by opiates, and with them shall try to fight through the winter, 

and try something efficacious, if life be granted me, in the Spring. 

The [? sarcocele] continues well. Write to what comfort you can. 

We are almost left alone. 

I am, Sir, 

Your affectionate, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

London, Dec. 20, 1783. 
To the Reverend Dr. Taylor in Ashbourne, Derbyshire. 

819. 

To Miss Reynolds '. 

DEAREST MADAM. °**=«"^ '3, 1783- 

You shall doubtless be very welcome to me on Christmas 
day. I shall not dine alone, but the company will all be people 
whom we can stay with or leave. I will expect you at three, if 
I hear no more. I am this day a little better ^ 

I am, dear Madam, 

Your most humble servant, 

Sam JojiNSON. 

I mean, do not be later than three ; for as I am afraid I shall 
not be at church, you cannot come too soon. 

920. 

To James Boswell. 

London, December 24, 1783. Published in the Life^ iv. 248. 

' First published in Croker's Bos- better since, though still in a most 

well^ page 744. alarming way. Indeed, I am very 

■ Miss Bumey recorded on De- much afraid for him. He was ver)', 

cember 16 : — * I spent the afternoon very kind. Oh ! what a cruel, hea\'y 

with Dr. Johnson, who indeed is loss will he be ! ' Mme. D'Arblay's 

very ill, and whom I could hardly Diary, ii. 293. 
tell how to leave. But he is rather 

To 



Aetat. 74.] 



To Mrs, Thrale. 



367 



021. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 
Dear Madam, London, Dec. 27, 1783. 

The wearisome solitude of the long evenings did indeed 
suggest to me the convenience of a club in my neighbourhood, 
but I have been hindered from attending it by want of breath. 
If I can complete the scheme, you shall have the names and the 
regulations '. 

The time of the year, for I hope the fault is rather in the 
weather than in me, has been very hard upon me. The muscles 
of my breast are much convulsed. Dr. Heberden recommends 
opiates, of which I have such horrour that I do not think of them 
but in extremis^. I was however driven to them last night for 
refuge, and having taken the usual quantity durst not go to bed, 
for fear of that uneasiness to which a supine posture exposes me, 
but rested all night in a chair with much relief, and have been 
to-day more warm, active, and cheerful. 

You have more than once wondered at my complaint of 
solitude, when you hear that I am crowded with visits, hiopem 
me copia fecii^ . Visitors are no proper companions in the chamber 
of sickness. They come when I could sleep or read, they stay 
till I am weary, they force me to attend when my mind calls for 
relaxation, and to speak when my powers will hardly actuate my 
tongue. The amusements and consolations of languor and 
depression are conferred by familiar and domestick companions, 
which can be visited or called at will, and can occasionally be 
quitted or dismissed, who do not obstruct accommodation ^ by 
ceremony, or destroy indolence by awakening effort. 



* Pioszi LetterSy ii. 340. 

' For *the little evening club in 
Essex Street, in the Strand,' see Life^ 
iv. 253, 436. 

^ Bos well records that having called 
on Johnson on March 23 in this year 
he found him relieved by opium. 
* He however protested against it 
as a remedy that should be g^ven 
with the utmost reluctance, and only 
in extreme necessity.' Life^ iv. 171. 

* Ante^ ii. 326. He had written 



to Bos well three days earlier: — *I 
am now a little better. But sickness 
and solitude press me very heavily. 
I could bear sickness better if I were 
relieved from solitude.' lb, iv. 249. 
The quotation is from Ovid's Meta- 
morphosesy iii. 466. 

^ Accommodation is a favourite 
word with Johnson. He defines it : — 
' I. Provision of conveniences. 2. In 
the plural, conveniences, things re- 
quisite to ease or refreshment.' In 

Such 



368 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[AJ>. 1788. 



Such scKiety I had with Levet and WiUiams ; such I had 

where — I am never likely to have it more '. 

I wish, dear Lady, to you and my dear girls many a cheerful 

and pious Christmas. 

I am, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

022. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 
Dear Madam, London, Dec. 31, 1783. 

Since you cannot guess, I will tell you that the generous 
man was Gerard Hamilton. I returned him a very thankful and 
respectful letter I 

Your enquiry about Lady Carlisle* I cannot answer, for I 



TkeRatnbler^ No. 145, he says : — 'The 
meanest artizan or manufacturer con- 
tributes more to the accommodation 
of life than the profound scholar and 
argumentative theorist.* The Duke 
in Measure for Measurey Act iii. sc I, 
1. 13, reasoning with life says : — 

* Thou art not noble ; 

For all the accommodations that 
thou bear'st 

Are nursed by baseness.' 
See Ufe^ v. 310, «. 3 iox accommodate, 
* Mme. D'Arblay records that 
some day in the autumn of this year 
she called on him. Hitherto he had 
never mentioned to her his fears 
about Mrs. Thrale. As she sat with 
him, *a sudden change from kind 
tranquillity to strong austerity took 
place in his countenance ; startled 
and affrighted she held her peace. 
A silence almost awful succeeded. 
Then see-sawing violently in his 
chair, as usual when he was big with 
any powerful emotion whether of 
pleasure or of pain, he seemed deeply 
moved; but without looking at her, 
or speaking, he intently fixed his 
eyes upon the fire. Then suddenly 



turning to her with an air of mingled 
wrath and woe he hoarsely ejacu- 
lated :—" Piozzi ! " He evidenUy 
meant to say more; but the effort 
with which he articulated that name 
robbed him of any voice for amplifi- 
cation, and his whole frame grew 
tremulously convulsed. At length, 
and with great agitation, he broke 
forth with : — " She cares for no one. 
You, only — you, she loves still. But 
no one— and nothing else. You she 
still loves—." A half smile now, 
though of no very gay character, 
softened a little the severity of his 
features, while he tried to resume 
some cheerfulness in adding : — " as 
— she loves her little finger." He 
saw how distressing was the theme 
to a hearer whom he ever wished to 
please, not distress ; and he named 
Mrs. Thrale no more.' Memoirs of 
Dr, Bumeyy ii. 358-63. (I have 
abridged the account.) 

' Piozzi Letters^ ii. 342. 

^ Life^ iv. 245, and anie^ ii. 352, 364. 

* The wife of the fifth Earl of 
Carlisle and daughter of the first 
Marquis of Stafford. 

never 



AeUt. 74.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



369 



never saw her, unless perhaps without knowing her at a con- 
versation '. 

Sir Joshua has just been here, and knows nothing of Miss 
Bingham ; if one of Lord Lucan's daughters be meant, the eldest 
is now Lady Spencer ; she is languishing in France with a diseased 
leg, and the third is a child '. 

Pray send the letter which you think will divert me, for I have 
much need of entertainment; spiritless, infirm, sleepless and 
solitary, looking back with sorrow and forward with terrour : — 
but I will stop. 

Barry of Ireland had a notion that a man's pulse wore him 
out ^ ; my beating breast wears out me. The physicians yester- 
day covered it with a blister, of which the effect cannot yet be 
known *. Good God prosper their endeavours ! Heberden is of 
opinion that while the weather is oppressive we must palliate. 

In the mean time I am well fed ; I have now in the house 
pheasant, venison, turkey and ham, all unbought. Attention and 
respect give pleasure, however late or however useless. But they 
are not useless when they are late ; it is reasonable to rejoice, as 
the day declines, to find that it has been spent with the appro- 
bation of mankind ^. 



* Anie^ il 105, n, 4. 

' For Johnson's acquaintance with 
Lord Lucan's family see emte^ ii. 65, 
nn, 4, 9. Gibbon, writing from Lau- 
sanne on September 5, 1785 about his 
English visitors says :—* Those who 
have repaid me for the rest were Lord 
and Lady Spencer. He is a valuable 
man, and where he is familiar a 
pleasant companion ; she a charming 
woman, who with sense and spirit 
has the simplicity and playfulness of 
a child.' Gibbon's Misc, IVorks, ii. 
384. Jones composed an Ode on 
their marriage, of which Horace 
Walpole wrote : — * If it is not perfect, 
still the eighth, ninth and tenth 
stanzas have merit enough to shock 
Dr. Johnson, and such sycophant 
old nurses, and that is enough for 
me. How precious is any line of De- 

VOL. n. B b 



mosthenes that offended King Philip 
and the whole Court of Macedon!' 
Letters^ viii. 74. 

^ ' His notion Was that pulsation 
occasions death by attrition ; and that 
therefore the way to preserve life is 
to retard pulsation.' Life^ iii. 34. 

* Miss Bumey records : — * Tuesday, 
December 30. I spent the evening 
with Dr. Johnson. There were some 
very disagreeable people with him ; 
and he once affected me very much 
by turning suddenly to me, and 
grasping my hand, and saying : — 
* The blister I have tried for my 
breath has betrayed some very bad 
tokens ; but I will not terrify myself 
by talking of them ; ah, friez Dieu 
pour moi^ Mme. D'Arblay's Diaryy 
ii. 295. 

' ' Our uncertainty concerning our 

The 



370 



To the Reverend Dr. Taylor, [ajj. its*. 



The ministry is again broken, and to any man who extends his 
thoughts to national consideration the times are dismal and 
gloomy '. But to a sick man what is the publick ? 

The new year is at hand ; may God make it happy to me, to 
you, to us all, for Jesus Christ's sake ! Amen ^ 

I am, Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 



023. 

Dear Sir '^^ ^^® Reverend Dr. Taylor ^. 

I was intending to write to you, to quarrel with your silence, 
when waking after a short sleep in my chair, I found your kind 
letter lying on the table. 

Since your Milk has restored you, let it preserve you, do not 
forsake it again for any length of time. As for me I know not 
on which side to turn me, I am irregular in nothing. My breast 
is now covered with a blister, which \s^ I believe, to be kept open ; 
it gives no pain, and perhaps has hitherto produced no benefit, 
for though I have not since its application, suffered anything 
from Spasms, I have never been without opium, and therefore 



own merit, and our anxiety to think 
favourably of it, should together 
naturally enough make us desirous 
to know the opinion of other people 
concerning it ; to be more than 
ordinarily elevated when that opinion 
is favourable/ Adam Smith's Theory 
of Moral Sentiments, ed. i8oi, i. 
259. 

' To Boswell he had written a 
week earlier : — * The present dreadful 
confusion of the publick ought to 
make you wrap yourself up in your 
hereditary possessions, which, though 
less than you may wish, are more 
than you can want ; and in an hour 
of religious retirement return thanks 
to God, who has exempted you from 
any strong temptation to faction, 
treachery, plunder, and disloyalty.' 



Life^ iv. 249. Earl Temple, who on 
the 19th entered Pitt's Ministry as 
Secretary of State, had resigned on 
the 22nd. Pari, Hist, xxiv. 227. 
* The heart of the young minister, 
stout as it was, almost died within 
him. He could not once close his 
eyes on the night which followed 
Temple's resignation.' Macaulay's 
Misc. Works y ed. 1871, p. 407. 

' In Messrs. Sotheby & Co.'s 
Auction Catalogue of May 10, 1875, 
Lot 119 is 'a beautiful and most 
pious prayer in the autograph of Dr. 
Johnson, dated January i, p.m. 11, 
1 784.* It was sold for eight guineas. 

^ From the original in the posses- 
sion of Mr. Alfred Morrison, of Font- 
hill House. 

know 



Aetat. 74.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



371 



know not, which has helped me ; nor am I helped much, for in 
bed I scarce get any sleep ; what I have is in a chair. Dr. Heberden 
tells me that I must be content to support myself by opiates in 
the winter, and try to get better help in hotter weather. 

In spring I have a desire of trying milk somewhere in the 
country. My lower parts begin to swell. May we all be received 
to mercy. 

There is likely to be a vacancy soon in Wicher's Alms- 
houses in Chappel street ', which it will [be] your Dean's turn to 
fill up. A poor relation of mine wants a habitation. His name 
is Heely. I intend to ask Dr. Bell's interest, and if you [think] 
it proper, wish you would write to the Dean in Heely's favour '. 

I wish us both a happy year. 

I am. Sir, 

Affectionately yours, 

London, Jan. 3, 1784. SaM : JOHNSON. 

Write soon and often. 

To the Reverend Dr. Taylor in Ashbourne, Derbyshire. 

024. 

To Charles Dilly. 
[London], January 6, 1784. Published in the Life^ iv. 257. 

026. 

Dear Madam, '^^ ^^^- Thrale^. London, Jan. 12, 1784. 
If, as you observe, my former letter was written with trepi- 
dation, there is little reason, except the habit of enduring, why 



' Chapel Street, Broad Way, West- 
minster. Dodsley*s London^ ii. 90. 
* Your Dean * was the Dean of West- 
minster. For Dr. Bell see ante i. 118. 

' For Heely see ante^ i. 306. He 
was elected to the Almshouse. Haw- 
kins visited him there, and was in- 
formed by him that *' the endowment 
yielded him an allowance of half-a- 
crown a week, and half a chaldron 
of coals at Christmas.' Hawkins's 
Johnson^ p. 602. Bos well, properly 
censuring the unjust charge brought 



against Johnson by Hawkins of 
neglecting this man, says : — * Sir 
John chooses to call him a relation 
of Dr. Johnson's.' Life^ iv. 370. 
Johnson however here speaks of him 
as ' a poor relation of mine.' Relation 
he defines ^s a person related by birth 
or marriage, Heely's second mar- 
riage, especially as he had no children 
by his first wife, Johnson's cousin, 
did, as Boswell says, dissolve the 
connection. 
^ Piozzi Letters^ ii. 344. 



Bb a 



this 



372 



To Mrs. TArale. 



[A.D. 1784. 



this should shew more steadiness. I am confined to the house ; 
I do not know that any things grow better ; my physicians direct 
me to combat the hard weather with opium ; I cannot well 
support its turbulence, and yet cannot forbear it, for its immediate 
effect is ease ; having kept me waking all the night it forces 
sleep upon me in the day, and recompenses a night of tediousness 
with a day of uselessness. My legs and my thighs grow very 
tumid ' : in the mean time my appetite is good, and if my 
physicians do not flatter me death is [not] rushing upon me*. 
But this is in the hand of God. 

The first talk of the sick is commonly of themselves ; but if 
they talk of nothing else, they cannot complain if they are soon 
left without an audience. 

You observe, Madam, that the ballon engages all mankind, and 
it is indeed a wonderful and unexpected addition to human 
knowledge^ ; but we have a daring projector, who, disdaining the 
help of fumes and vapours, is making better than Daedalean 
wings, with which he will master the ballon and its companions 
as an eagle masters a goose. It is very seriously true that a sub- 
scription of eight hundred pounds has been raised for the wire 
and workmanship of iron wings * ; one pair of which, and I think 
a tail, are now shown in the Haymarket, and they are making 
another pair at Birmingham. The whole is said to weigh two 
hundred pounds — no specious- preparation for flying, but there 
are those who expect to see him in the sky. When I can leave 
the house I will tell you more. 



' Tumid is one of * the three un- 
common or learned words' which 
Boswell discovers in the Lives of 
the Poets, Johnson describes Wal- 
ler's legs as growing tumid. Life^ iv. 

39. 
' I have inserted not which clearly 

seems omitted. See the next letter 
for Dr. Heberden's favourable re- 
port of his state. 

^ Mrs. Thrale wrote to Miss Bur- 
ney from Bath on January 15 : — 
* Air balloons go no faster than post- 
horses at last. I caught my death 
almost by looking at one the other 



day which went to Bristol in an hour 
from hence. I dare say Sir John 
Lade*s phaeton would have beaten 
our Icarus out of sight.* Mme. D'Ar- 
bla/s Diary^ ii. 300. 

* Johnson, in RasselaSy ch. vi, in 

* A Dissertation on the Art of Flying,' 
had ridiculed the invention of wings. 

* In a year,* he writes, * they were 
finished, and on a morning appointed 
the maker appeared, furnished for 
flight, on a little promontory: he 
waved his pinions awhile to gather 
air, then leaped from his stand, and 
in an instant dropped into the lake.' 

I had 



Aetat. 74.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



373 



I had the same old friends to dine with me on Wednesday ', 
and may say that since I lost sight of you I have had one pleasant 

^^' I am, Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

Pray send me a direction to Sir Musgrave in Ireland '. 



026. 

To Mrs. Thrale^. 
Dear Madam, London, Jan. 21, 1784. 

Dr. Heberden this day favoured me with a visit ; and after 
hearing what I had to tell him of miseries and pains, and com- 
paring my present with my past state, declared me well. That 
his opinion is erroneous, I know with too much certainty; and 
yet was glad to hear it, as it set extremities at a greater distance : 
he who is by his physician thought well, is at least not thought 
in immediate danger. They therefore whose attention to me 
makes them talk of my health, will, I hope, soon not drop, but 
lose their subject. But, alas I I had no sleep last night, and sit 
now panting over my paper. Dabit Deus his quoque finem^. 
I have really hope from spring ; and am ready, like Almanzor, to 
bid the sun^ swiftly, and Uave weeks and moftths behind him ^ 
The sun has looked for six thousand years upon the world to 
little purpose, if he does not know that a sick man is almost 
as impatient as a lover. 

Mr. Cator gives such an account of Miss Cecy*, as you and all 



' Ante, ii. 364. 

' Sir Richard Musgrave. Ante^ 
ii. 295, n. I. 

^ Piozzi Letters, ii. 346. 

* * This too the gods shall end.' 

^neid'u 199. 

Windham, who called on him this 
day, found him too ill to admit him ; 
as was the case also on the 24th and 
25th. Windham's Diary, p. 2. 

' Almanzor's speech is at the end 
of Dryden's Conquest of Granada : — 



' Move swiftly. Sun, and fly a lover's 

paoe; 
Leave weeks and months behind 
thee in thy race.' 
Johnson no longer says, as he had 
said twenty-five years earlier in the 
strength of his manhood, that ' the 
distinction of seasons is produced 
only by imagination operating on 
luxury. To temperance every day 
is bright.' The Idler, No. xi. 
* For Mr. Cator, one of Mr. 

of 



374 



To the Reverend Dr. Taylor. [a.d. itm. 



of us must delight to hear; Cator has a rough, manly, inde- 
pendent understanding, and does not spoil it by complaisance ; 
he never speaks merely to please, and seldom is mistaken in 
things which he has any right to know. I think well of her for 
pleasing him, and of him for being pleased"; and at the close ', 
am delighted to find him delighted with her excellence. Let 
your children, dear Madam, be his care, and your pleasure ; close 
your thoughts upon them, and when sad fancies are excluded, 
health and peace will return together. 

I am, dear Madam, 

Your old Friend, 

Sam : Johnson. 

027. 

To Mr. Perkins. 
[London], January 21, 1784. Published in the Life^ iv. 257. 



828. 

T^ ^ To THE Reverend Dr. Taylor*. 

Dear Sir, 

I am still confined to the house, and one of my amusements 

is to write letters to my friends, though they, being busy in the 

common scenes of life, are not equally diligent in writing to me. 

Dr. Heberden was with me two or three days ago, and told me 

that nothing ailed me, which I am glad to hear, though I knew 

it not to be true. My nights are restless, my breath is difficult, 

and my lower parts continue tumid. 

The struggle, you see, still continues between the two sets of 

ministers : those that are out and in one can scarce call them, for 

who is out or in is perhaps four times a day a new question \ 



Thrale's executors, see ante^ i- 355» 
n, 7. Cecy is Mrs. Thrale's daughter, 
Caecilia. She did not die till seventy- 
three years after this good account 
was given of her. 

' ^ At the close ' is, I think, a very 
uncommon expression for in short or 
in fine. 

' First published in my edition of 



the Life^ vol. iv, page 260, from the 
original in the possession of Mr. M. 
M. Holloway of Hillbrow, Streatham. 
' Pitt had come into office on 
December 19 of the previous year, 
not by a vote of the House of 
Commons, but by the favour of the 
King. Ante, ii. 370,/!. i. * His con- 
test against the House of Commons 

The 



Aetat. 74.] To the Reverend Dr, Taylor. 



375 



The tumult in government is, I believe, excessive, and the efforts 
of each party outrageously violent, with very little thought on 
any national interest, at a time when we have all the world for 
our enemies, when the King and parliament have lost even the 
titular dominion of America ^ and the real power of Government 
every where else. Thus Empires are broken down when the 
profits of administration are so great, that ambition is satisfied 
with obtaining them, and he that aspires to greatness needs do 
nothing more than talk himself into importance. He has then 
all the power which danger and conquest used formerly to give ; 
he can raise a family and reward his followers. 

Mr. Burke has just sent me his Speech upon the affairs of 
India, a volume of above a hundred pages closely printed *. I will 
look into it; but my thoughts seldom now travel to gfreat distances. 

I would gladly know when you think to come hither, and 
whether this year you will come or no. If my life be continued, 
I know not well how I shall bestow myself. 

I am^ Sir, 

Your affectionate &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

* London, Jan. 24, 1784.' 
* To the Rev. Dr. Taylor in Ashbourne, Derbyshire. 



lasted from the 17th of Decem- 
ber, 1783, to the end of March, 
1784. In sixteen divisions the op- 
position triumphed. Again and again 
the King was requested to dismiss his 
ministers. But he was determined 
to go to Germany rather than yield.' 
Macaulay's Misc, IVorkSy ed. 1871, 
p. 407. Horace Walpole wrote on 
February 2 : — * Once or twice a week 
there is a day which it is said will be 
decisive. To-day is in that number ; 
yet I expect it so little, that I am 
writing to you at ten at night, with- 
out inquiring whether the House of 
CommonSjwhere action was expected, 
is up, without knowing what was to 
be there.* Letters, viii. 453. 

' By the first article of the Treaty of 
Peace signed at Paris on September 
3, 1783. George III, *for himself. 



his heirs and successors relinquished 
all claims to the government, pro- 
priety and territorial rights of the 
United States of America and every 
part thereof.' 

' Burke's Speech in the House of 
Commons on December i, 1783, on 
Fox's India Bill. Pari, Hist., xxiii. 
13 1 2. It was published by Dodsley. 
In this speech describing the English 
rule in India he said : — ' England has 
erected no churches, no hospitals, no 
palaces, no schools; England has 
built no bridges, made no high roads, 
cut no navigations, dug out no 
reservoirs. Every other conqueror 
of every other description has left 
some monument, either of state or 
beneficence, behind him. Were we 
to be driven out of India this day, 
nothing would remain to tell that it 

To 



376 To Mrs. Thrak. [a.d-i784. 



029. 

To Richard Clark. 
[London], January 27, 1784. Published in the Life^ iv. 258. 

830. 

Dear Sir, '^^ ^^- Heberden'. 

When you favoured me with your last visit, you left me full 
of cheerfulness and hope. But my Distemper prevails, and my 
hopes sink, and dejection oppresses me. I entreat you to come 
again to me and tell me if any hope of amendment remains and 
by what medicines or methods it may be promoted Let me see 
you, dear Sir, as soon as you can. 

I am. Sir, 

Your most obliged and 

most humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 

Bolt-court, Fleet Street, Feb. 6, 1784. 

931. 

Dear Madam, ^^ ^^^' Thrale-. London, Feb. 9, 1784. 
The remission of the cold did not continue long enough to 
afford me much relief. You are, as I perceive, afraid of the 
opium ; I had the same terrour, and admitted its assistance only 
under the pressure of insupportable distress, as of an auxiliary 
too powerful and too dangerous. But in this pinching season I 
cannot live without it ; and the quantity which I take is less than 
it once was. 

My physicians flatter me, that the season is a great part of my 
disease ; and that when warm weather restores perspiration, this 
watery disease will evaporate. I am at least willing to flatter 
myself. 

I have been forced to sit up many nights by an obstinate 

had been possessed during the in- sion of the Rev. C. G. Andrews, of 

glorious period of our dominion, by Wouldham Rectory, Rochester, a 

anything better than the ouran- great-grandson of Dr. Heberden. 

outang or the tiger.' lb, p. 1333. » Piozzi Letter s^ ii. 348. 



From the original in the posses- 



sleeplesncss, 



Aetat. 74.] 



To Mrs. ThraUs 



377 



sleeplesness, which makes the time in bed intolerably tedious, 
and which continues my drowsiness the following day. Besides, 
I can sometimes sleep erect, when I cannot close my eyes in a 
recumbent posture. I have just bespoke a flannel dress, which I 
can easily slip off and on, as I go into bed, or get out of it. Thus 
pass my days and nights in morbid wakefulness, in unseasonable 
sleepiness, in gloomy solitude, with unwelcome visitors, or un- 
grateful exclusions, in variety of wretchedness. But I snatch 
every lucid interval ', and animate myself with such amusements 
as the time offers. 

One thing which I have just heard, you will think to surpass 
expectation. The Chaplain of the factory at Petersburg relates, 
that the Rambler is now, by the command of the Empress, trans- 
lating into Russian'; and has promi.sed when it is printed to 
send me a copy. 



' Johnson gives in his Dictionary ex- 
amples of lucid interval from Bacon, 
Dryden, The Tatler, and Bentley. 
He defines it 'bright with the 
radiance of intellect ; not darkened 
with madness^ Gibbon tells how he 
was sent to school * in a lucid interval 
of comparative health.' Misc, Works j 

i. 31- 

' The Chaplain was the Rev. 
William Tooke, author of A view of 
the Russian Empire during the Reign 
of Catherine II, Nichols introduced 
him to Johnson, and heard him tell 
him that * translations of the Rambler 
and of Blackstone*s Commentaries 
had been made into the Russian 
language by the especial command of 
the Empress.' Nichols's Z/V. Anec, 
ii. 553. Three months later, at the 
Essex-Head Club, * Johnson called to 
us,' writes Boswell, *with a sudden 
air of exultation, as the thought 
started into his mind, " O I Gentle- 
men, I must tell you a very great 
thing. The Empress of Russia has 
ordered the Rambler to be translated 
into the Russian language, so I shall 
be read on the banks of the Wolga. 



Horace boasts that his fame would 
extend as far as the banks of the 
Rhone; now the Wolga is farther 
from me than the Rhone was from 
Horace." Boswell. "You must 
certainly be pleased with this. Sir." 
Johnson. " I am pleased. Sir, to be 
sure. A man is pleased to find he 
has succeeded in that which he has 
endeavoured to do." ' Life^ iv. 276. 

In this he was mistaken. Rasselas 
was translated into Russian in 1795, 
but the Rambler remains untrans- 
lated, lb, vi. p. Ixiv. 

Among the subscribers to Mickle's 
Lusiad published in 1776 I find 
' Basilius Nitikin, Esq., Gent of 
Russia, St. Mary Hall, Oxford, and 
Mr. Prochore SuvorofT, Gent, of 
Russia, Queen's College, Oxford.' 

Johnson defines Factory as ' I. A 
house or district inhabited by traders 
in a distant country. 2. The traders 
embodied in one place.' Its modem 
sense of a manufactory is not given. 
Manufactory is not in his Dictionary. 
In the Gentleman*s Magazine for 
1766, p. 385, where mention is made 
of the British Factory, the town is 

Grant, 



378 



To the Reverend Dr. Hamilton. [ajo.its*. 



Grant, O Lord, that all who shall read my pages, may become 
more obedient to thy laws ' ; and when the wretched writer shaU 
appear before thee, extend thy mercy to him, for the sake of 
Jesus Christ. Amen. j ^^^ Madam, 

Your, &c, 

6am : Johnson. 

882. 

To James Boswell. 
[London], February ii, 1784. Published in the JJJe^ iv. 259. 



083. 

To THE Reverend Dr. Hamilton*. 
Sir, Bolt Court, Feb. 11, 1784. 

My physicians endeavour to make me believe that I shall 
sometime be better qualified to receive visits from men of ele- 
gance and civility like yours. 

Mrs. Pelld shall wait upon you, and you will judge what will 
be proper for you to do. I once more return you my thanks, 

^^ ^"'^ Sir, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

034. 

Madam, '^o Mrs. Rogers 3. 

A very dangerous and enervaiting \sic\ distemper admonishes 
me to make my will. One of my cares is for poor Phebe Heme, 



called, as Johnson calls it, Peters- 
burg and not St. Petersburg. See 
also /A, p. 337. 

' In his last Rambler he says : — 
* It has been ray principal design to 
inculcate wisdom or piety. ... I 
shall never envy the honours which 
wit and learning obtain in any other 
cause, if I can be numbered among 
the writers who have given ardour to 
virtue and confidence to truth.* 

' First published in Croker's Bos- 



well^ page 758. For Dr. Hamilton 
see arite^ ii. 296. 

^ First published in Notes and 
Queries, 4th S. v. 442. Compared by 
me with the original in the posses- 
sion of the Rev. Edward B. Edgell, of 
Bromham Rectory, Chippenham. 

See ante, ii. 194, 206, for Johnson's 
Letters to Mrs. [Miss] Prowse, who 
had subsequently married the Rev. 
J. M. Rogers, about Phebe or Eliza- 
beth Heme, a lunatic. 

to 



AeUt. 74.] 



To Mrs. Rogers. 



379 



to whom your worthy Mother left so kind a legacy. When I am 
gone who shall pay the rest of her maintenance ? I have not 
much to leave, but if you, Madam, will be pleased to undertake 
it, I can leave you an hundred pounds. But I am afraid that is 
hardly an equivalent, for my part has commonly amounted to 
twelve pounds or more. The payment to the house is eight 
shilling \sic\ a week, and some cloaths \_^ic\ must be had how- 
ever few or coarse. 

Be pleased, Madam, to let me know your resolution on my 
proposal, and write soon, for the time may be very short '. 

I am, Madam, 

Your most humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 

Bolt Court, Fleet Street, Feb. 17, 1784. 

836. 

To Mrs. Porter. 
[London], February 23, 1784. Published in the Lift^ iv. 261. 

936. 

To James Boswell. 
London, February 27, 1784. Published in the Ldfe^ iv. 261. 



* This letter shows by the hand- 
writing how ill Johnson was. He did 
not complete his will till December 
8, five days before his death. Mrs. 
Rogers sent the following answer : — 

* Sir, — I received your Letter 
yesterday with the most sincere con- 
cern, I hope it will please God yet to 
prolong a Life so valuable to the 
publick as well as to your private 
Friends ; in the mean time your kind 
and generous desire to provide for 
those that mustexperience such a loss, 
ought I am sure to be complyed \sic\ 
with and Mr. Rogers desires me to 
inform you that he will accept of the 
hundred pounds, and will so far be 
answerable for Mrs. Heame's main- 
tenance as to secure to her an annuitty 



\sic\ of ;£23, instead of that we now 
pay her which will make a certain 
provision to her in case of accident 
to us. I name him instead of myself 
as all I am entitled to of course is 
his, and every business more easily 
settled by him \sic\ In case you 
should approve of this to save time 
and trouble, the necessary descrip- 
tion will be the Revd. John Methuen 
Rogers of Berkley, Somerset. I beg 
leave to add our good wishes and to 
subscribe myself Sir, 
* Your faithful and 

'Obedient Servant, 

* Mary Rogers.' 
Endorsed : — 

' Dr. Johnson's Letter and my 
answer. February 1784.' 

To 



38o 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A.I>. 1784. 



i 
t' • 



<^' 



1 • I 



V • 



937. 

To James Boswell. 

[London], March 2, 1784. Published in the LifCy iv. 262. 

038. 

To Mrs. Thrale*. 
Madam, London, March 10, 1784. 

You know I never thought confidence with respect to 
futurity any part of the character of a brave, a wise, or a good 
man. Bravery has no place where it can avail nothing ; wisdom 
impresses strongly the consciousness of those faults, of which it 
is itself perhaps an aggravation ; and goodness, always wishing 
to be better, and imputing every deficience to criminal negligence, 
and every fault to voluntary corruption, never dares to suppose 
the condition of forgiveness fulfilled, nor what is wanting in the 
crime supplied by penitence. 

This is the state of the best, but what must be the condition 
of him whose heart will not suffer him to rank himself among 
the best, or among the good ? Such must be his dread of the 
approaching trial, as will leave him little attention to the opinion 
of those whom he is leaving for ever ; and the serenity that is 
not felt, it can be no virtue to feign ^. 

The sarcocele ran off long ago, at an orifice made for mere 
experiment. 

The water passed naturally, by God's mercy, in a manner 
of which Dr. Heberden has seen but few examples ^ The 



* Piozzi Letters^ ii. 350. 

Mrs. Thrale wrote to Miss Bumey 
on February 18 : — * Johnson is in a 
sad way doubtless ; yet he may still 
with care last another twelvemonth, 
and every week's existence is gain to 
him who, like good Hezekiah, wearies 
Heaven with entreaties for life. I 
wrote him a very serious letter the 
other day.* Mme. D'Arblay's Diary ^ 
ii. 305. She had much better have 
gone and * exchanged confidence by 
the fireside * with him. 

' Boswell quotes this passage. 



Life^ iv. 395. Hawkins says that 
calling on Johnson about this time 
he 'found him labouring under great 
dejection of mind. With a look that 
cut me to the heart he told me that 
he had the prospect of death before 
him, and that he dreaded to meet 

his Saviour He uttered this 

passionate exclamation : — ** Shall I 
who have been a teacher of others 
myself be a castaway ? " * Hawkins's 
Johnson^ p. 564. 

^ Boswell, who came up to London 
early in May, writes :— * One morning 

chirurgeon 



Aetat. 74.] 



To Mrs. Porter. 



381 



chirurgeon ' has been employed to heal some excoriations ; and 
four out of five are no longer under his cure. The physician laid 
on a blister, and I ordered, by their consent, a salve ; but neither 
succeeded, and neither was very easily healed. 

I have been confined from the fourteenth of December, and 
know not when I shall get out ; but I have this day dressed me, 
as I was dressed in health. 

Your kind expressions gave me great pleasure ; do not reject 
me from your thoughts. Shall we ever exchange confidence by 
the fireside again * ? 

I hope dear Sophy is better ; and intend quickly to pay my 
debt to Susy. j ^^^ ^^^^^^ 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 



989. 

To Mrs. Porter ^ 

My dearest Love, Bolt-court, loth March, 1784. 

I will not suppose that it is for want of kindness that you 

did not answer my last letter; and I therefore write again to 

tell you that I have, by God's great mercy, still continued to 

grow better. My asthma is seldom troublesome, and my dropsy 



when I found him alone, he com- 
municated to me, with solemn 
earnestness, a very remarkable cir- 
cumstance which had happened in 
the course of his illness, when he was 
much distressed by the dropsy. He 
had shut himself up, and employed 
a day in particular exercises of re- 
ligion, — fasting, humiliation, and 
prayer. On a sudden he obtained 
extraordinary relief, for which he 
looked up to Heaven with grateful 
devotion. He made no direct in- 
ference from this fact ; but from his 
manner of telling it, I could perceive 
that it appeared to him as something 
more than an incident in the common 
course of events.' Life^ iv. 271. 
Hawkins says that Johnson told him 



that on that day 'he had ordered 
Frank not to admit any one to him, 
and, the better to enforce the charge, 
had added these awful words : — "For 
your master is preparing himself to 
die."* YiKwVxn^^ Johnson^ p. 565. 

' Ante^ ii. i, n» 4. 

* A few days later Mrs. Thrale 
wrote from Bath to Miss Bumey : — 
'My going to London would be a 
dreadful expense, and bring on a 
thousand inquiries and inconveni- 
ences—visits to Johnson and from 
Cator [one of Mr. Thrale's executors] ; 
and where must I live for the time 
too?' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary ^ ii. 307. 

^ First published in Croker*s Bos- 
welly page 749- 

has 



3^2 



Ta Mrs. Gastrell and Miss Asian. (>J>. 



lias ran itself almost away, m a manner wiiicii my phyacian says 
is very ancommoii. 

I have been confined firom the 14th of December^ and shall not 
soon venture abroad ; bat I have this day dressed myself as I 
was before my sickness. 

If it be inconvenient to you to write, desire Mr. Pearson to 
let me know how yoa do, and how 3roo have passed this long 
wmter. I am now not wrdioixt hopes that we shall once more 
see one another. 

Make my compliments to Mrs, Cobb and Miss Adey, and to 
an my friends, particularly to Mr. Pearson. 

I am, my dear. 

Your most humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 

MO. 

To Mrs. Gastrell and Miss Aston'. 

Dear Ladies, 
The kind and speedy answer with whidi 3rou &voiired me 
to my last letter, encourages me to hope, that you will be glad 
to hear again that my recovery advances^ My Disorders are an 
Asthma and Dropsy. The Asthma gives me no great trouble 
when I am not in motion, and the water of the dropsy has passed 
away in so happy a manner, by the Groodness of God, as Dr. 
Heberden declares himself not to have known more than four 
times in all his practice. I have been confined to the house 
from December the fourteenth, and shall not venture out till the 
weather is settled, but I have this day dressed myself as before 
I became ilL Join with me in returning thanks, and pray for me 
that the time now granted me may not be ill spent. 

Let me now, dear Ladies, have some account of you. Tell me 
how the [sic] You, have endured this long and sharp winter *, and 



' First published in Croker's Bos- 
welly page 750. Corrected by me 
from the original in Pembroke 
College Library. 

' In the Gentleman's Magazine for 
1784, p. 306, under date of March 16 
it is stated that in France 'the 
weather has driven the wolves in 



many places even into the fann-yards, 
where they have done much mischief. 
The northern seas too, if the reports 
from Brest be true, have felt the 
unusual rigour of the season. Be- 
tween Quimperley and Lauvau 33 
whales have been taken.* 

gives 



Aetat. 74.] To Mrs. ThraU. 383 

gives \sic\ me hopes that we may all meet again with kindness 

and cheerfulness. 

I am, 

Dear Ladies, 

Your most humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 

March 11, 1784. 

841. 

To Mrs. THRALE^ 

Dear Madam, London, March 16, 1784. 

I am so near to health, as a month ago I despaired of being. 
The dropsy is almost wholly run away, and the asthma, unless 
irritated by cold, seldom attacks me. How I shall bear motion 
I do not yet know. But though I have little of pain, I am 
wonderfully weak. My muscles have almost lost all their 
spring ; but I hope that warm weather, when it comes, will re- 
store me. More than three months have I now been confined. 
But my deliverance has been very extraordinary. 

Of one thing very remarkable I will tell you. For the asthma, 
and perhaps other disorders, my physicians have advised the 
frequent use of opiates. I resisted them as much as I could ; and 
complained that it made me almost delirious. This Dr. Heberden 
seemed not much to heed ; but I was so weary of it, that I tried, 
when I could not wholly omit it, to diminish the dose, in which, 
contrarily to the known custom of the takers of opium, and 
beyond what it seemed reasonable to expect, I have so far 
succeeded, that having begun with three grains, a large quantity, 
I now appease the paroxysm with a quarter of an ounce of dia- 
codium ^, estimated an equivalent only to half a grain ; and this 
quantity it is now eight days since I took. 

That I may send to Mrs. Lewis ^ for when I shall venture out 
I do not know, you must let me know where she may be found, 
which you omitted to tell me. 

I hope my dear Sophy will go on recovering. But methinks 

* Piozzi Letters^ ii. 352. Dean of Ossory, who married one of 

" *The syrup of poppies.' John- Johnson's friends. Miss Cotterel.ylii/^ 

son's Dictionary, ii. 310, «. I, zxidpost^ p. 393. 
' The wife or widow of John Lewis, 

Miss 



384 To Mrs. Thrale. [a.i>.i784. 

Miss Thrale rather neglects me ; suppose she should try to write 
me a little Latin letter. 

Do you however write to me often, and write kindly ; perhaps 
we may sometime see each other. 

I am, Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

842. 

To James Boswell. 
London, March 18, 1784. Published in the Life^ iv. 264. 

848. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 
Madam, London, March 20, 1784. 

Your last letter had something of tenderness. The accounts 
which you have had of my danger and distress were I suppose 
not aggravated. I have been confined ten weeks with an asthma 
and dropsy. But I am now better. God has in his mercy 
granted me a reprieve ; for how much time his mercy must 
determine. 

On the 19th of last month I evacuated twenty pints of water, 
and I think I reckon exactly; from that time the tumour has 
subsided, and I now begin to move with some freedom. You 
will easily believe that I am still at a great distance from health ; 
but I am, as my chirurgeon expressed it, amazingly better. 
Heberden seems to have great hopes. 

Write to me no more about dying with a grace ; when you 
feel what I have felt in approaching eternity — in fear of soon 
hearing the sentence of which there is no revocation, you will 
know the folly * ; my wish is, that you may know it sooner. 
The distance between the grave and the remotest point of human 
longevity, is but a very little ; and of that little no path is certain. 



* Piozzi Letters^ ii. 354. every minute may divide, can cast his 

' * If he who considers himself as eyes round him without shuddering 

suspended over the abyss of eternal with horror, or panting for security ; 

perdition only by the thread of life, what can he judge of himself, but that 

which must soon part by its own he is not yet awakened to sufficient 

weakness, and which the wing of conviction ?&c.' 7>^^a»i^/<fr,No.iia 

You 



AeUt. 74.] 



To Miss Susy Tkrale. 



^ 
o 



85 



You knew all this, and I thought that I knew it too; but 
I know it now with a new conviction*. May that new con- 
viction not be vain ! 

I am now cheerful ; I hope this approach to recovery is a 
token of the Divine mercy. My friends continue their kindness. 
I give a dinner to-morrow. 

Pray let me know how my dear Sophy goes on. I still hope 
that there is in her fits ' more terrour than danger. But I hope, 
however it be, that she will speedily recover. I will take care 
to pay Miss Susy her letter. God bless you all. 

I am, Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

844. 

To Miss Susy Thrale^ 

My dearest Miss Susy, London, Mar. 25, 1784. 

Since you are resolved to stand it out, and keep mum till 
you have heard from me, I must at last comply; and indeed 
compliance costs me now no trouble, but as it irritates a cough, 
which I got, as you might have done, by standing at an open 
window ^ ; and which has now harassed me many days, and is too 
strong for diacodium, nor has yet given much way to opium itself. 
However, having been so long used to so many worse things, I 
mind it but little. I have not bad nights ; and my stomach 
has never failed me. But when I shall go abroad again, I know 
not. 

With Mr. Herschel it will certainly be very right to cultivate 



' Cowper, whose mind took a 
deeper gloom from religion than even 
Johnson's, wrote on May 10 to the 
Rev. John Newton : — * We rejoice 
in the account you give us of Dr. 
Johnson. His conversion will indeed 
be a singularproof of the omnipotence 
of Grace ; and the more singular, the 
more decided.' Southe/s Cowpety 
XV. 150. 

' She was hysterical. Aniey ii. 
360-1. 



' Piozsi Letters^ ii. 356. 

* Boswell, writing of Johnson's 
' particularities ' eleven years earlier, 
says : — * He sets open a window in the 
coldest day or night, and stands be- 
fore it. It may do with his consti- 
tution ; but most people, amongst 
whom I am one, would say, with the 
frogs in the fable, ''This may be 
sport to you ; but it is death to us.** ' 
Life^y, 306. 



VOL. II. 



C C 



an 



386 



To Miss Susy Thrale. 



[A.D. 1784. 



an acquaintance ; for he can show you in the sky what no man 
before him has ever seen, by some wonderful improvements 
which he has made in the telescope '. What he has to show is 
indeed a long "way off, and perhaps concerns us but little; 
but all truth is valuable, and all knowledge is pleasing in 
its first effects, and may be subsequently useful. Of whatever 
we see we always wish to know ; always congratulate ourselves 
when we know that of which we perceive another to be ignorant. 
Take therefore all opportunities of learning that offer themselves, 
however remote the matter may be from common life or common 
conversation'. Look in Herschel's telescope; go into a chy- 
mist's laboratory; if you see a manufacturer at work, remark 
his operations. By this activity of attention, you will find in 
every place diversion and improvement ^. 

Now dear Sophy is got well, what is it that ails my mistress ? 
She complains, and complains, I am afraid, with too much cause ; 
but I know not distinctly what is her disorder '*. I hop>e that 
time and a quiet mind will restore her. 

I am, my dearest, 
Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 



* Horace Walpole wrote on July 4, 
1 785 : — * Mr. Herschel has discovered 
that the Milky Way is not only a 
mob of stars, but that there is another 
dairy of them still farther off, whence 
I conclude comets are nothing but 
pails returning from milking, instead 
of balloons filled with inflammable 
air, which must by this time have 
made terrible havoc in such thickets 
of worlds, if at all dangerous.' Letters , 
viii. 569. Miss Bumey, who met 
Herschel in 1786, says :— * He has 
not more fame to awaken curiosity 
than sense and modesty to gratify it. 
... He has discovered 1,500 uni- 
verses.* Mme. D'Arblay*s Diary ^ iii. 
129, 262. 

' * It is evident that the earliest 
searchers after knowledge must have 
proposed knowledge only as their 



reward, and that science, though 
perhaps the nursling of interest, was 
the daughter of curiosity.' Tke 
Rambler^ No. 103. * Sir,* (said Dr. 
Johnson) * a desire of knowledge is 
the natural feeling of mankind ; and 
every human being, whose mind is 
not debauched, will be willing to give 
all that he has to get knowledge.' 
LAfe^ i. 458. 

^ * I have enlarged my notions,' he 
recorded, after seeing some iron and 
copper- works. Life^ v. 442. In look- 
ing over the silk-mill at Derby he 
taught Boswell * not to think with a 
dejected indifference of the works of 
art.' lb, iii. 164. 

* Miss Burney wrote in the previous 
November : — * Dr. Pepys had a long 
private conference with me concern- 
ing Mrs. Thrale, with whose real state 

To 



▲eUt. 74.] 



To John Nichols, 



387 



846. 

To Bennet Langton. 
[London], March 27, 1784. Published in the Zi/^; iv. 267. 

846. 

To James Boswell. 
London, March 30, 1784. Published in the Life^ iv. 265. 

847. 
To OziAS Humphry. 
[London], April 5, 1784. Published in the Life^ iv. 268. 

848. 

To Bennet Langton. 
April 8, 1784. Published in the Ufe^ iv. 267. 

848. 
To OziAS Humphry. 
[London], April 10, 1784. Published in the Life^ iv. 269. 

860. 

^ To John Nichols'. . .. ^ ,^0. 

Sir, ^ Apnl 12, 1784. 

I have sent you inclosed a very curious proposal from Mr. 
Hawkins, the son of Sir John Hawkins, who, I believe, will take 



of health he is better acquainted than 
any body, and sad indeed was all that 
he said. ... I am sorry not to be more 
explicit. I can only now tell you that 
I love Mrs. Thrale with a ncver-to- 
cease affection, and pity her more 
than ever I pitied any human being ; 
and, if I did not blame her, I could, 
1 should, I believe, almost die for 
her.' Mme. D'Arbla/s Diary ^ ii. 284. 
Mrs. Piozzi, writing of this time, 
says : — ' Insults at home, and spiteful 
expressions in every letter from the 
guardians broke my spirits quite 



down ; and letters from my grieving 
lover, when they did come, helped to 
render my life miserable.' Hayward's 
Piozzi^ i. 276. Those who were *at 
home' were her daughters, and 
among her guardians was Johnson, 
in whose letters not a single * spiteful 
expression ' has been seen. 

' First published in Nichols's 
Literary Anecdotes^ ix. 35. 

The work which John Sidney 
Hawkins proposed to edit was 
George Ruggle's Ignoramus. * He 
has been fortunate enough,' writes 



C c 2 



care 



388 To Mrs. ThraU. :aj>.i7»4. 

care that whatever his son promises shall be performed. If you 

are inclined to publish this compilation, the editor will agree for 

an edition on the following terms, which I think liberal enough. 

That you shall print the book at your own charge. That the 

sale shall be wholly for your benefit till your expenses are repaid ; 

except that at the time of publication you shall put into the 

hands of the editor, without price, . . . copies for his friends. 

That, when you have been repaid, the profits arising from the 

sale of the remaining copies shall be divided equally between 

you and the editor. That the edition shall not comprise fewer 

than five hundred. 

I am, Sir, 

Your most humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 

861. 

To THE Reverend Dr. Taylor. 
London, April 12, 1784. Published in the Life^ iv. 270. 

862. 

To Bennet Langton. 
[London], April 13, 1784. Published in the Life^ iv. 268. 

868. 

To Mrs. Thrale*. 

Dear Madam, London, April 15, 1784. 

Yesterday I had the pleasure of giving another dinner to 
the remainder of the old club ". We used to meet weekly about 
the year fifty, and we were as cheerful as in former times ; only 
I could not make quite so much noise ; for since the paralytick 
affliction, my voice is sometimes weak. 

Metcalf and Crutchley, without knowing each other, are both 

Dr. Lort, *to be in possession of the Hist,, vii. 473. His edition was 
Italian play of Baptista Porta, whence published in 1 787. 
Ruggle is said to have borrowed his ' Piozzi Letters, ii. 361. 
design, and which was Ruggle's own » Ante, ii. 364. * We were,* says 
copy. Farmer hunted this out among Hawkins, *very cheerfully enter- 
some literary lumber thrown aside in tained by him.* Hawkins's y^^Anx^ 
Clare HaU Library.' Nichols's Lit. p. 563. 

members 



Aetat. 74.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



389 



members of parliament for Horsham in Sussex. Mr. Cator is 
chosen for Ipswich '. 

But a sick man's thoughts soon turn back upon himself. I 
am still very weak, though my appetite is keen, and my digestion 
potent ; and I gratify myself more at table than ever I did at 
my own cost before. I have now an inclination to luxury which 
even your table did not excite ; for till now my talk was more 
about the dishes than my thoughts. I remember you com- 
mended me for seeming pleased with my dinners when you had 
reduced your table ; I am able to tell you with great veracity, 
that I never knew when the reduction began, nor should have 
known that it was made, had not you told me. I now think 
and consult to-day what I shall eat to-morrow. This disease 
likewise will I hope be cured '. For there are other things, how 
different I which ought to predominate in the mind of such a 
man as I : but in this world the body will have its part ; and my 
hope is, that it shall have no more. My hope but not my con- 
fidence ; I have only the timidity of a Christian to determine, 
not the wisdom of a Stoick to secure me. 

I hope all my dears are well. They should not be too nice 

in requiring letters. If my sweet Queeney writes more letters 

like her last, when franks come in again I will correct them and 

return them ^ 

I am, Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 



' For Metcalfe see ante^ ii. 345, and 
for Crutchley, ii. 1 28, n, 4. Cator was 
declared *not duly elected.' Pari, 
Hisi,y xxiv. 789. 

' Boswell dined with Johnson a 
few weeks later at General Paoli's. 
* There was a variety of dishes much 
to his taste, of all which he seemed to 
me to eat so much, that I was afraid 
he might be hurt by it ; and I 
whispered to the General my fear, 
and begged he might not press him. 
" Alas ! (said the General), see how 
very ill he looks ; he can live but a 
very short time. Would you refuse 



any slight gratifications to a man 
under sentence of death ? There is a 
humane custom in Italy, by which 
persons in that melancholy situation 
are indulged with having whatever 
they like best to eat and drink, even 
with expensive delicacies."* Life, 
iv. 330. Beattie, who dined with him 
about the same time, said : — * I verily 
believe that on Sunday last he ate as 
much to dinner as I have done in all 
for these ten days past.* Life of 
Beattity ed. 1824, p. 316. 

' There were no franks for there 
was no Parliament. The old one had 

To 



390 



To Mrs. ThraU, 



I;aJ>. 1784. 



864. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 
Dear Madam, London, April 19, 1784. 

I received in the morning your magnificent fish, and in the 
afternoon your apology for not sending it. I have invited the 
Hooles and Miss Bumey to dine upon it to-morrow. 

The club which has been lately instituted is at Sam's ' ; and 
there was I when I was last out of the house. But the people 
whom I mentioned in my letter are the remnant of a little club 
that used to meet in Ivy Lane about three-and-thirty years ago, 
out of which we have lost Hawkcsworth and Dyer, the rest arc 
yet on this side the grave ^. Our meetings now are serious, and 
I think on all parts tender. 

Miss Moore has written a poem called Le Bas Bleu ; which is 
in my opinion a very great performance *. It wanders about in 
manuscript, and surely will soon find its way to Bath. 

I shall be glad of another letter from my dear Queeney; the 
former was not much to be censured. The reckoning between 
me and Miss Sophy is out of my head. She must write to tell 
me how it stands. 



been dissolved on March 25 ; the 
new one met on May 18. Pari, Hist., 
xxiv. 775. Queeney probably had 
written in Latin as he had suggested, 
ante, ii. 384. 

' Piozzi Letters, ii. 363. 

' The Club met at the Essex Head, 
* kept by Samuel Greaves, an old 
servant of Mr. Thrale's.* Life, iv. 
253, and ante, ii. 367. * Your friend 
Sam,' Susan Bumey called him, 
writing to Miss Bumey. Early 
Diary of Frances Bumey, ii. 267. 

^ Ante, ii. 364, «. 5. 

* Hannah More, writing in this 
month, said : — * I cannot spare time 
to write another word, as I am very 
busy copying the Bas Bleu for the 
king who desires to have it. Did I 
tell you I went to see Dr. Johnson ? 
He said there was no name in poetry 



that might not be glad to ov^-n it 
You cannot imagine how I stared ; 
all this from Johnson, that parsi- 
monious praiser. I told him I was 
delighted at his approbation ; he 
answered quite characteristically: — 
" And so you may, for I give you the 
opinion of a man who does not rate 
his judgment in these things very 
low, I can tell you.'*' H. More's 
Memoirs, i. 319. Horace VValpole 
wrote to thank her for * her charming 
and very genteel poem.* Letters^ 
viii. 475. See also Life, iv. 108. The 
poem is so little known that I will 
quote a few lines as specimens ; — 

* Or how Aspasia's parties shone 
The first Bas-bleu at Athens known. 

1.7. 

* Hail, conversation, heav'nly fair. 

Thou bliss of life, and balm of care ! 

I am 



Aetat. 74.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



391 



I am sensible of the ease that your repayment of Mr 

has given ' ; you felt yourself ght^e by that debt ; is there an 
English word for it ? 

As you do not now use your books, be pleased to let Mr. 
Cator know that I may borrow what I want. I think at present 
to take only Calmet *, and the Greek Anthology. When I lay 
sleepless, I used to drive the night along by turning Greek 
epigrams into Latin. 

I know not if I have not turned a hundred ^. 

It is time to return you thanks for your present. Since I was 
sick, I know not if I have not had more delicacies sent me than 
I had ever seen till I saw your table. 

It was always Dr. Heberden's enquiry, whether my appetite 
for food continued. It indeed never failed me; for he con- 
sidered the cessation of appetite as the despair of nature yielding 
up her power to the force of the disease. 

I am. Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 



Call forth the long-forgotten know- 
ledge 
Of school, of travel, and of college. 
For thee, best solace of his toil. 
The sage consumes his midnight oil ; 
And keeps late vigils to produce 
Materials for thy future use.' 

1. 232. 

« « « « 

Then speaking of the traveller she 
continues : — 

*For this he bids his home farewell, 
The joy of seeing is to telL 
Trust me, he never would have 

stirred 
Were he forbid to speak a word ; 
And Curiosity would sleep, 
if her own secrets she must keep.* 

1. 256. 
* * My uncle's widow, Lady Salus- 
bury,* writes Mrs. Piozzi, *had 
threatened to seize upon my Welsh 
estate if I did not repay her money, 
lent by Sir Thomas Salusbury to my 



father This debt not having 

been cancelled stood against me as 
heiress. I had been forced to borrow 
from the ladies ; and Mr. Crutchley, 
when I signed my mortgage to them 
for £7iOOOf said : — " Now, Madam, 
call your daughters in and thank 
them ; make them your best curtsey 
(with a sneer) for keeping you out of 
a gaol.*' He added £y^ or £fioo 
more, and I paid that off as alluded 
to ; but Dr. Johnson knew how I was 
distressed, and you see how even he 
had been writing ! ! ' Hayward's 
Piozzi^ i. 276. 

' Probably Augustin Calmet's Dic- 
tionary of the Bible, 

' 'During his sleepless nights he 
amused himself by translating into 
Latin verse, from the Greek, many 
of the epigrams in the Anthologia, 
These translations, with some other 
poems by him in Latin, he gave to his 
friend Mr. Langton, who, having 

To 



392 To Mrs. Thrale. [a.i>. its*. 

866. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 

London, April 21, 17S4. 

Dear Madam, 

I make haste to send you intelligence, which, if I do not 
still flatter niyself, you will not receive without some d^ree of 
pleasure. After a confinement of one hundred twenty-nine da}^, 
more than the third part of a year, and no inconsiderable part of 
human life, I this day returned thanks to God in St. Clement's 
church, for my recovery ; a recovery, in my seventy-fifth year, 
from a distemper which few in the vigour of youth are known to 
surmount ; a recovery, of which neither myself, my friends, nor 
my physicians, had any hope ; for though they flattered me with 
some continuance of life, they never supposed that I could cease 
to be dropsical. The dropsy however is quite vanished, and the 
asthma so much mitigated, that I walked to-day with a more 
easy respiration than I have known, I think, for perhaps two 
years past. I hope the mercy that lengrthens my days, will 
assist me to use them well. 

The Hooles, Miss Burney, and Mrs. Hall (Wesley's sister), 
feasted yesterday with me very cheerfully on your noble salmon *. 
Mr. Allen could not come, and I sent him a piece, and a great 
tail is still left. 

Dr. Brocklesby forbids the club at present, not caring to ven- 
ture the chillness of the evening ; but I purpose to shew myself 
on Saturday at the Academy's feast. I cannot publish my 
return to the world more effectually ; for, as the Frenchman says, 
tout le monde sy troiivera. 

For this occasion I ordered some cloaths ; and was told by 
the taylor, that when he brought me a sick dress, he never 

added a few notes, sold them to the ' * The day,' writes Miss Burney, 

booksellers for a small sum, to be * was tolerable ; but Dr. Johnson is 

given to some of Johnson's relations, never his best when there is nobody 

which was accordingly done ; and to draw him out ; but he was much 

they are printed in the collection of pleased with my coming, and very 

his works.* Zi/ir, iv. 384, and W?r^j, kind indeed.' Mme. D'Arblay's 

i. 175. Diaryy ii. 310. 
' Piossi Letters, ii. 365. 

expected 



Aetat. 74.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



393 



expected to make me any thing of any other kind. My re- 
covery is indeed wonderful. 

I am, dear Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

966. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 
Madam, London, April 26, 1784. 

On Saturday I shewed myself again to the* living world at 
the Exhibition; much and splendid was the company: but like 
the Doge of Genoa at Paris *, I admired nothing but myself. I 
went up all the stairs to the pictures without stopping to rest or 
to breathe, 

' In all the madness of superfluous health ^' 

The Prince of Wales had promised to be there ; but when we 
had waited an hour and half, sent us word that he could not 
come \ 

My cough still torments me ; but it is only a cough, and much 
less oppressive than some of former times, but it disturbs my 
nights. 

Mrs. Davenant called to pay me a guinea, but I gave two for 
you. Whatever reasons you have for frugality, it is not worth 
while to save a guinea a-year by withdrawing it from a public 
charity. 

I know not whether I told you that my old friend Mrs. Cot- 
terel, now no longer Miss, has called to see me. Mrs. Lewis is 
not well *. 

Mrs. Davenant says, that you regain your health. That you 
regain your health is more than a common recovery; because I 



' Piozzi Letters^ ii. 367. 

' At Versailles. Antey i. 270, «. 2. 

' Pope. Essay on Man^ iii. 3. 

* He who was slowly to ripen into 
the First Gentleman in Europe was 
but twenty-one when be treated men 
like Johnson and Reynolds with this 
insolence. Reynolds exhibited six- 
teen pictures, among them the 



portraits of Fox, and Mrs. Siddons 
as the Tragic Muse. Leslie and 
Taylor's Reynolds^ ii. 436. 

' Miss Cotterel, like Miss Carter, 
Miss Porter, Miss Aston, and 
Miss Reynolds, having reached a 
certain age had taken the title of 
Mrs. Mrs. Lewis was her sister. 
Anie^ ii. 383, «. 3. 

infer, 



394 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A.I>. 17P4. 



infer, that you regain your peace of mind. Settle your thoughts 
and controul your imagination, and think no more of Hesf)erian 
felicity. Gather yourself and your children into a little system, 
in which each may promote the ease, the safety, and the pleasure 
of the rest *. 

Mr. Howard called on me a few days ago, and gave [me] the 
new edition, much enlarged, of his Account of Prisons *. He has 
been to survey the prisons on the continent ; and in Spain he 
tried to penetrate the dungeons of the Inquisition, but his 
curiosity was very imperfectly gratified. At Madrid they shut 
him quite out ; at Villadolid they shewed him some publick 
rooms. 

While I am writing, the post has brought your kind letter. 
Do not think with dejection of your own condition ; a little 
patience will probably give you health, it will certainly give you 
riches, and all the accommodations that riches can procure ^ 

I am. Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam : Johnson. 



^ Mrs. Piozzi has on this the follow- 
ing marginal note : — * Mrs. Davenant 
neither knew nor cared, as she wanted 
her brother, Harry Cotton, to marry 
Lady Keith [Queeney, married in 
1808 to Admiral Lord Keith], and I 
offered my estate with her. Miss 
Thrale said she wished to have 
nothing to do either with my family 
or my fortune. They were all 
cruel and all insulting.' Hay ward's 
Piozzi^ i. 321. Mme. D'Arblay, to 
whom the secret of Mrs. Thrale's at- 
tachment had been confided, says 
that * Miss Thrale's conduct, through 
scenes of dreadful difficulty, notwith- 
standing her extreme youth, was 
even exemplary.' Memoirs of Dr, 
Burney^ ii. 246 . 

^ In the Sale Catalogue of John- 
son's Library, Lot 286 is Howard's 
State of the Prisons in England and 
IVaieSy 1784. The first edition was 
published in 1777. 



Erasmus Darwin, addressing Be- 
nevolence, tells how — 
*From realm to realm, with cross or 

crescent crown'd, 
Where'er Mankind and Misery are 

found. 
O'er burning sands, deep waves, or 

wilds of snow. 
Thy Howard journeying seeks the 

house of woe.' 
7 Vie Botanic Garden, vol. ii, canto 2, 
1. 439. Horace Walpole speaks of 
Howard as * the apostle of humanity.' 
Letters^ ix. 177. 

^ For accommodation see ante, 
ii. 367, n. 5. Boswell records that 
when they were looking at Lord 
Scarsdale's seat at Keddlestone he 
remarked : — * " One should think that 
the proprietor of all this must be 
happy." " Nay, Sir," said Johnson ; 
" all this excludes but one evil — 
poverty."* Life, iii. 160. In Tk€ 
Rambler, No. 53, Johnson says that 

To 



Aetat. 74.] 



To Miss Reynolds. 



395 



867. 

To Mrs. Porter *. 
My Dear, London, April 26, 1784. 

I write to you now, to tell you that I am so far recovered 
that on the 21st I went to church to return thanks, after a con- 
finement of more than four long months. 

My recovery is such as neither myself nor the physicians at all 
expected, and is such as that very few examples have been 
known of the like. Join with me, my dear love, in returning 
thanks to God. 

Dr. Vyse * has been with (me) this evening ; he tells me that 
you likewise have been much disordered, but that you are now 
better. I hope that we shall some time have a cheerful inter- 
view. In the mean time let us pray for one another, 

I am. Madam, 

Your humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 



868. 

To Miss Reynolds ^ 
Dear Madam, Bolt-court, 30th April, 1784. 

Mr. Allen * has looked over the papers, and thinks that one 
hundred copies will come to five pounds. 

Fifty will cost 4/. loj., and five and twenty will cost 4/. ^. 
It seems therefore scarcely worth while to print fewer than a 
hundred. • 

Suppose you printed two hundred and fifty at 6/. loj., and, 
without my name ^ tried the sale, which may be secretly done. 
You would then see the opinion of the public without hazard, if 



*■ wealth is chiefly to be valued as it 
secures us from poverty ; for it is 
more useful for defence than acquisi- 
tion, and is not so much able to 
procure good as to exclude evil.' 

* First published in Malone's Bos- 
welL 

' Ante^ ii. 14. 

'^ First published in Croker*s Bos- 



well, page 753. 

For Miss Reynolds's writings see 
ante, ii. 180, 223, 249. 

^ Mr. Allen, Johnson's landlord, 
was a printer. 

^ I conjecture that Johnson wrote 
* without any name.' His Letter of 
May 28, posty p. 398, shows that she 
laid aside the thought of printing. 

nobody 



396 



To Mrs. Tkrale, 



[▲.D. 1784. 



/^ 



nobody knows but I. If any body else is in the secret, you shall 
not have my consent to venture. 

I am, dear Madam, 

Your most affectionate 

and most humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 

869. 

To Miss Jane Langton. 
[London], May lo, 1784. Published in the Life^ iv. 271. 

860. 

To Mrs. Thrale*. 

Now I am broken loose, my friends seem willing enough to 
see me. On Monday I dined with Paradise ; Tuesday, Hoole ; 
Wednesday, Dr. Taylor ; to-day, with Jodrel ; Friday, Mrs. 
Garrick ; Saturday, Dr. Brocklesby ; next Monday, Dilly *. 

But I do not now drive the world about ; the world drives or 



■ Piozzi Letters^ ii. 369. 

Johnson does not seem to have 
known that Mrs. Thrale had spent 
some days in London early in this 
month. Mme. D*Arblay's Diary ^ 

ii. 314- 
' Boswell dined with Johnson at 

Paradise's and at JoddrePs, but was 

too indolent to record the talk. At 

JoddreFs was Lord Monboddo, * who 

avoided any communication with Dr. 

Johnson.' Life^ iv. 272. At Mrs. 

Garrick's Johnson met Fanny Bumey 

and Hannah More (ib, p. 275) ; but 

neither of them gives any account of 

the evening, though Miss Bumey just 

mentions it. Mme. D'Arblay's Diary ^ 

ii. 315. Of the dinner at Dr. 

Brocklesby's Boswell gives some 

record. Life^ iv. 273. Windham 

also was there, who records in his 

Diary ^ p. 9: — * After dinner took 

Johnson an airing over Blackfriars 

Bridge, thence to the Club.' The 

Club was the Essex- Head Club, 

where, says Windham, 'there were 

/ - , 



» -r 



_,■* 






present Boswell, Murphy,Brocklesby, 
Berry, Mr. Bowles, Hoole and his 
son, and a son of Dr. Bumey, he that 
was expelled from Cambridge/ This 
must have been Charles Bumey the 
Greek scholar, who left Cambridge 
without taking his degree, though the 
degree of M.A. was conferred on him 
about thirty years later. Porson told 
how he had once called on Bumey to 
borrow a book, and not finding him 
at home carried it off. Bumey soon 
returning, * pursued him in a chaise, 
and recovered it. Porson talked of 
this affair with some bitterness. 
"Did Bumey suppose," he said, 
" that I meant to play his old tricks ? " 
(alluding to a well-known circum- 
stance in the earlier part of Bumey*s 
history).* Table Talk of Rogers^ 

p. 315- 

Of the talk which Johnson had 

that evening at the Essex-Head 

Club Boswell gives some account 

{Life^ iv. 275), and also of the dinner 

at Dilly's on Monday. lb, p. 278. 

r ^— Q -draws 



f" 



.* f 




r 



/^ 



O^j 



// 



A«tat. 74.] 



To Miss Reynolds. 



397 



draws me '. I am very weak ; the old distress of sleeplessness 
comes again upon me. I have however one very strong basis 
of health, an eager appetite and strong digestion. 

Queeney's letter I expected before now : Susy is likewise in 
debt. I believe I am in debt to Sophy, but the dear Loves 
ought not to be too rigorous. 

Dr. Taylor has taken St. Margaret's, in Westminster, vacant 
by Dr. Wilson's death ' : how long he will keep it I cannot guess : 
it is of no great value, and its income consists much of voluntary 
contributions. 

I am. Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

London, Thursday, May 13, 1784. 

You never date fully. 



961. 

Madam, To Miss Reynolds'. May 28, 1784. 

You do me wrong by imputing my omission to any captious 
punctiliousness. I have not yet seen Sir Joshua, and, when 



' Johnson perhaps had in mind a 
line in Dryden's Character of a Good 
Parson: — 'And forced himself to 
drive, but loved to draw.' In speak- 
ing of Warburton he said : — * When 
I read Warburton first and obfierved 
his force, and his contempt of man- 
kind, I thought he had driven the 
world before him.* Ufey v. 93. 

' Antey ii. 158. Dr. Wilson was 
also Rector of St. Stephen's, Wal- 
brook. In this church ' he erected a 
statue to the celebrated female 
historian [Mrs. Macaulay] while 
living, which was boarded up till her 
death by authority of the Spiritual 
Court.' Gentleman* sMagazineyiyZ^^ 
i. 317. In a small party at the 
Bishop's Palace in Lichfield Dr. 
Johnson was asked for ' his opinion 



with respect to the propriety of Dr. 
Wilson's conduct in putting up this 
statue. He did not at first hear the 
question; on its being repeated by 
Miss Seward he replied : — " Aye, 
aye ; poor foolish Wilson ! why. 
Madam, he was a fool for doing it, 
and she was a fool for per[mitting 
it to be done]*." ' British Museum, 
Add, AfSS. 24419. Horace Walpole 
speaks of Wilson as ' Mrs. Macaulay's 
idolater — that dirty disappointed 
hunter of a mitre. Dr. Wilson.' 
LetterSf vii. 42. 

^ First published in Croker's Bos- 
weii, page 757. 

For Johnson as a negotiator with 
Sir Joshua Reynolds on behalf of 
Miss Reynolds see ante, ii. 84, 
n. 2. 



* The MS. is imperfect. 



I do 



398 To Mrs. Thrale. [a^d. 1784. 



I do see him, I know not how to serve you. When I spoke 
upon your affairs to him, at Christmas, I received no encourage- 
ment to speak again. 

But we shall never do business by letters. We must see one 
another. 

I have returned your papers, and am glad that you laid aside 
the thought of printing them '. 

I am, Madam, 

Your most humble servant, 

Sam : Johnson. 

962. 

To OziAS Humphry. 
[London], May 31, 1784. Published in the Life^ iv. 269. 

963. 

To Mrs. Thrale'. 
Dear Madam, London, May 31, 1784. 

Why you expected me to be better than I am I cannot 
imagine : I am better than any that saw me in my illness ever 
expected to have seen me again. I am however at a great 
distance from health, very weak and very asthmatick, and troubled 
with my old nocturnal distresses ; so that I am little asleep in the 
night, and in the day too little awake. 

I have one way or other been disappointed hitherto of that 
change of air, from which I think some relief may possibly be 
obtained ; but Boswel and I have settled our resolution to go to 
Oxford on Thursday K But since I was at Oxford, my convivial 
friend Dr. Edwards and my learned friend Dr. Wheeler are both 
dead \ and my probabilities of pleasure are very much diminished. 
Why, when so many are taken away, have I been yet spared I 
I hope that I may be fitter to die 

How long we shall stay at Oxford, or what we shall do when 
we leave it, neither Bozzy nor I have yet settled ; he is for his 

' Ante^ ii. 395. UfCy iv. 283—311. 

' Piozzi Letters^ ii. 370. * For Edwards and Wheeler see 

^ For the Journey to Oxford see antCy ii. 257, 260, 327. 

* 

part 



Aetat. 74.] To the Rcvcrend Dr. Hamilton. 



399 



part resolved to remove his family to London and try his fortune 
at the English bar ' : let us all wish him success. 
Think of me, if you can, with tenderness. 

I am, Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

964. 

To Sir Joshua Reynolds. 
[London], June [? i], 1784. Published in the Life, iv. 283. 



966. 

To THE Reverend Dr. Hamilton*. 
Sir, [London], June 2, 1784. 

You do every thing that is liberal and kind. Mrs. Pelld is a 

bad manager for herself, but I will employ a more skilful agent, 

one Mrs. Gardiner ^, who will wait on you and employ Pell^'s 

money to the best advantage. Mrs. Gardiner will wait on you. 

I return you, Sir, sincere thanks for your attention to me. I 

am ill, but hope to come back better, and to be made better still 

by your conversation. 

I am, Sir, &c., 

Sam: Johnson*. 

966. 

To Mrs. Thrale^ 
Dear Madam, London, June 17, 1784. 

I returned last night from Oxford after a fortnight's abode 



' Boswell records a conversation 
which passed between him and John- 
son at Oxford on this subject. Ufe, 
iv. 309. See also anUy i. 316. To 
Bishop Percy he wrote from Carlisle 
on July 8 :— * I have at length re- 
solved, with Dr. Johnson's approba- 
tion, to try my fortune at the English 
bar, a scheme of which your Lord- 
ship talked to me in an animating 
strain when I was hospitably enter- 
tained by you at this place.' Nichols's 
LU. Hist', vii. 303. 



' First published in Croker's Bos- 
welly page 758. 

For Dr. Hamilton see anie, ii. 
296, 378. 

^ Antey i. 156, «. 3. 

^ In Messrs. Sotheby and Co.'s 
Auction Catalogue of May 10, 1875, 
Lot 116 is: — 'Brief Autographic 
Memoranda in Latin and English of 
Dr. Johnson's feelings,&c., on the 8th, 
9th, loth June, 1784. " Very breath- 
less and dejected," on the first date.' 

' Piossi LetterSy ii. 372. 

with 



400 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A.D. 1784. 



with Dr. Adams, who treated me as well as I could expect or wish ; 
and he that contents a sick man, a man whom it is impossible to 
please, has surely done his part well ' : I went in the common 
vehicle with very little fatigue, and came back I think with less *. 
My stomach continues good, and according to your advice I 
spare neither asparagus nor peas ^ and hope to do good execution 
upon all the summer fruits *. But my nights are bad, very bad ; 



' Boswell quotes this passage, 
Life, iv. 311. Mr. John Coke Fowler, 
Resident Magistrate at Swansea, who 
matriculated at Pembroke College in 
1837, tells the following anecdote : — 

* The old porter who lived for more 
than fifty years after Dr. Johnson's 
last visit to Oxford told me that the 
Doctor desired to mount the narrow 
stairs which led to his old rooms. 
He was then very unwell and infirm. 
Consequently the porter went behind 
him up the stairs, and in a manner 
hardly consistent with dignity applied 
his strength to that ponderous part 
of Dr. Johnson's frame which might 
otherwise have brought him back- 
wards.' Recollections of Public Men, 
Published in The Red Dragon, p. 

239. 
' It was on the way down that 

Johnson scolded the waiter for the 

roast mutton which was set before the 

passengers at dinner. Ante, ii. 257, 

n. 3. His conversation in the coach 

charmed his fellow-travellers, *two 

very agreeable ladies from America. 

" How he does talk !" one of them 

said to me aside (writes Boswell) ; 

" Every sentence is an essay." ' Life, 

iv. 284. 

^ Johnson dined one day at the 

house of W. J. Mickle, the translator 

of the Lusicidy who lived at Wheatley, 

* a very pretty country place, a few 
miles from Oxford.' Li/e^ iv. 308. I 
am informed that Mt is handed 
down as a tradition among Mickle's 
descendants that at this dinner 
Johnson said that his host was the 



first Scotchman at whose house he 
had had enough of green pease.' In 
the Sporting Magazine for October, 
1806, p. 10, the following anecdote is 
told of this same dinner : — * A gentle- 
man of the company said that what- 
ever genuine patriotism remained in 
the country was to be found only 
amongst the Whigs. Johnson asked 
him if he knew who was the first 
Whig. The gentleman replied in the 
negative. " Well then, Sir," said the 
Doctor, "I'll tell you who he was; 
his name was Lucifer, and for his 
patriotism he was kicked out of 
heaven."' Johnson is described as 
being * rather a man of taciturnity,' 
and as 'putting on his spectacles.' 
The spectacles throw doubt on the 
whole story ; perhaps it is nothing 
but a modification of Johnson's 
saying ' that the first Whig was the 
Devil.' Life, iii. 326. 

* Johnson wrote on July 20 : — * My 
appetite still continues keen enough ; 
and what I consider as a symptom of 
radical health, I have a voracious 
delight in raw summer fruit, of which 
I was less eager a few years ago.' lb, 
iv. 353. Sir William Temple, with 
whose writings he was familiar, 
says : — * No part of diet in any 
season is so healthful, so natural, 
and so agreeable to the stomach as 
good and well- ripened fruits. I can 
say it for myself at least and all my 
friends that the season of summer 
fruits is ever the season of health 
with us.' Temple's Worksy ed. 1757, 
iii. 236. 

the 



Aaut. 74.] To the Reverend Dr. Taylor, 401 

the asthma attacks me often, and the dropsy is watching an 
opportunity to return. I hope I have checked it, but great 
caution must be used, and indeed great caution is not a high 
price for health or ease. 

What I shall do next I know not ; all my schemes of rural 
pleasure have been some way or other disappointed. I have 
now some thought of Lichfield and Ashbourne. Let me know, 
dear Madam, your destination '. 

I am, Madam, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

967. 

g... To THE Reverend Dr. Taylor'. 

When we parted last night, I thought worse of your case, 
than I think since I have thought longer upon it. Your general 
distemper is, I think, a hectic fever, for which the bark is 
proper, and which quietness of mind, and gentle exercise, and 
fresh air may cure. Your present weakness is the effect of such 
waste of blood as would weaken a young man in his highest 
vigour. It might be necessary, but it must sink both your 
courage and strength. 

Dr. Nichols ^ hurt himself extremely in his old age by lavish 

' It was probably on the very day of his countrymen, a man very low 

Johnson wrote this letter that Piozzi in his profession.' Ufty ii. 354. See 

in Milan received the letter from Mrs. also ib. iii. 163. In the Gentlemar^s 

Thrale's doctor at Bath which brought Magazine^ 17851 i* I3) is a Memoir of 

him back post haste to England. Nicholls where it is stated that on 

Hayward's Piozzi^ i. 277. the death of George II, *this most 

* I owe the copy of this Letter to skilful physician was superseded to 

the kindness of Mr. F. Locker-Lamp- make way for one (Sir W. D.) who, 

son, of Rowfant, Crawley, in whose not long before, had been an army 

possession is the original. surgeon of the lowest class. By this 

^ Frank Nicholls. Johnson speak- exchange the upstart rose to dignity 

ing of the Earl of Bute's 'undue and riches.' Nicholls a few years 

partiality for Scotchmen ' said : — earlier had satirised the Scots in an 

* He turned out Dr. Nichols, a very anonymous pamphlet. To * lavish 

eminent man, from being physician phlebotomy' he had no doubt re* 

to the King, to make room for one sorted as a remedy against ' an in- 

VOL. n. D d phlebotomy. 



402 



To the Reverend Dr. Taylor. [aj>. i784. 



phlebotomy. Do not bleed again very soon, and when you can 
delay no longer be more moderate. 

I think you do right in going home, and hope you will have 
an easy and pleasant journey. 

I am, dear Sir, 

Yours affectionately, 

Sam : Johnson. 

Bolt Court, June 19, 1784. 

To the Reverend Dr. Taylor. 



968. 

To THE Reverend Dr. Taylor'. 

Dear Sir, 

It is now Wednesday Evening*. I hope you are lodged 
easily and safely in Ashbourne. Since we parted I have not 
been well. I dined on Saturday with Dr. Brocklesby, and was 
taken ill at his house, but went to the club ^ On Monday I was 
so uneasy that I staid at home. On Tuesday I dined at the 
club *, but was not well at night, nor am well to day but hope 



veterate asthmatic cough * which 
carried him off in his eightieth year, 
just as Johnson, under a similar 
distress, had had taken from him 
about fifty ounces of blood {ante^ ii. 

253). 

W. D. was William Duncan, who 

in 1764 was made a baronet. He 

married a sister of the Earl of Thanet. 

Walpole*s Letters^ vi. 1 30, and Gen- 

tlejnan's Magazine, 1764, p. 399. 

For Taylor's phlebotomy see ante, 
ii. 160. 

" From the original in the posses- 
sion of Mr. Alfred H. Huth, of Bolney 
House, Ennismore Gardens, London. 

' Boswell had visited Johnson in 
the morning of this day, after first 
seeing fifteen men in a batch hanged 
before Newgate. From the scene of 
this * legal massacre * (to use John- 



son's own words) Bolt Court was 
distant but a few minutes' walk. Life, 
iv. 328. 

^ The Essex Head Club which met 
on a Saturday and two evenings be- 
sides, lb. iv. 254, 275. An/ey ii. 396, 
w. 2. 

* The Literary Club. * On Tues- 
day, June 22,' writes Boswell, *I 
dined with him at the Literary 
Club, the last time of his being in 
that respectable society. He looked 
ill ; but had such a manly fortitude, 
that he did not trouble the company 
with melancholy complaints. They 
all shewed evident marks of kind 
concern about him, with which he 
was much pleased, and he exerted 
himself to be as entertaining as his 
indisposition allowed him.' lb, iv. 
326. 

the 



Aetat. 74.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



403 



the fit is abating. Boswel had a great mind to draw me to 
Lichfield, and as I love to travel with him, I have a mind to be 
drawn if I could hope in any short time to come to your house, 
for Lichfield will, I am afraid, not be a place for long continuance, 
and, to tell the truth, I am afraid of seeing my self so far from 
home, as I must return alone '. 

Sir John Hawkins has just told me that you preached on 
Sunday with great vigour. You have therefore a great fund of 
strength left, which I entreat you not to bleed away *. 

I am. Sir, 

Yours affectionately, 

Sam: Johnson. 

June 23, 1784. 

To the Reverend Dr. Taylor in Ashbourne, Derbyshire. 



969 

To Mrs. Thrale ^ 
Dear Madam, London, June 26, 1784. 

This morning I saw Mr. Lysons * : he is an agreeable young 

man, and likely enough to do all that he designs. I received 

him as one sent by you has a right to be received, and I 

hope he will tell you that he was satisfied ; but the initiatory ^ 



' Boswell, who was returning to 
Scotland, no doubt wanted Johnson 
to accompany him as far as Lichfield. 
Johnson told Mrs. Knowles that 'he 
was the best travelling companion in 
the world.' Lt/e^ iii. 294. At the 
beginning of the Journey to the 
Hebrides he praises * his gaiety of 
conversation and civility of manners.' 
Life, V. 52, and ante^ i. 291. Had 
they gone together a most interesting 
addition would have been made to 
the Life. As it was, Johnson started 
less than a fortnight after Boswell. 

' For Taylor's habit of * periodical 
bleeding ' see Life, iii. 1 52. Perhaps 
Johnson thought that he himself had 
bled his strength away by the fifty 
ounces which he had had taken from 
him in the spring of 1782. lb. iv. 146. 



' Pio!i2i Letters^ ii. 373. 

* Samuel Lysons, afterwards 
Keeper of the Records in the Tower, 
then a law-student. ' He made,' 
writes Mrs. Piozzi, ' my bargain with 
the bookseller [for the Anecdotes of 
Dr. Johnson\y from whom on my 
return I received ;f 300, a sum un- 
exampled in those days for so small 
a volume.* Hayward*s Piozzi^ ii. 1 26. 

Lysons, 'though a great friend 
of Mrs. Piozzi's, said that Johnson 
not only revised throughout her poem 
of The Three Warnings^ but supplied 
several new lines.' Prior's Maione^ 
p. 413. Boswell did not know of this. 
Life, ii. 26. 

* IniticUory is not in Johnson's 
Dictionary. 



D d 2 



conversation 



404 



To Mrs. ThraU. 



I9M. 



conversation of two strangers is seldom pleasing or instructive 
to any great degree, and ours was such as other occasioiis of the 
same kind produce. 

A message came to me yesterday to tdl me that Macfacan, 
after three days of illness, is dead of a suppression of urine. He 
was one of those who, as Swift says, stood as a screen between 
me and death \ He has I hope made a good exchange. He 
was very pious ; he was very innocent ; he did no ill ; and of 
doing good a continual tenour of distress allowed him few oppor- 
tunities : he was very highly esteemed in the house '. 

Write to me if you can some words of comfort. My dear 
girls seem all to forget me 

I am, Madam, 

Your, &c^ 

Sam: Johnson ^ 



' 'The fools, my juniors by a year. 
Are tortured with suspense and 

fear, 
Who wisely thought my age a 

screen, 
When death approached, to 
stand between.* 
On the Death of Dr. Swift: Swift's 
Works, ed. 1803, xi. 246. 

' The Charterhouse, of which he 
was *a poor brother.' Ante, ii. 
213. 

' Instead of * the words of comfort ' 
which he asked for he received in a 
few days the following letters un- 
signed. That they were unsigned 
was clearly intentional. Mrs. Thrale 
was not yet married to Piozzi, but 
she wished Johnson to believe, as his 
answer shows he inclined to believe, 
that she was married. In publishing 
the first of the letters — the second 
she left unpublished— she heads it 



' Mrs. Piozzi to Dr. Johnson/ as in 
like manner she heads his letter of 
July 8, ' Dr. Johnson to Mr&. PiooL* 
'We were married,' she says, 'in 
London by the Spanish ambassador's 
chaplain, and returned hither [to 
Bath] to be married by Mr. Morgan, 
of Bath, at St. James's Church, July 
25, 1784.' Hay ward's Piozzi^ i.277. 
In Jackson's Oxford Journal^ for 
July 31, is the following curious 
announcement : * Bath, July 28. 
Sunday (and not before) was married 
at St. James's Church in this dty, 
Gabriele Piozzi, Esq., of that Parish 
to Mrs. Thrale, Widow of Henry 
Thrale, Esq., of St. Saviour's, South- 
wark.' The Rev. H. R. Laughton,the 
Chaplain of the Spanish Chapel, in- 
forms me that he has examined the 
records which go back to 1734, but 
has not discovered any trace of the 
marriage. 



* MRS. PIOZZI TO DR. JOHNSON. 
* My dear Sir, Bath, June 30. 

* The enclosed is a circular letter which I have sent to all the guardians, 
but our friendship demands somewhat more ; it requires that I should beg 

To 



Aetot.74.] To Mrs. ThraU. 405 

970. 

Madam, '^'^ Mrs. Thrale '. 

If I interpret your letter right, you are ignominiously 

your pardon for concealing from you a connexion which you must have heard 
of by many, but I suppose never believed ^ Indeed, my dear Sir, it was con- 
cealed only to save us both needless pain ; I could not have borne to reject 
that counsel it would have killed me to take, and I only tell it you now be- 
cause all is irrevocably settled, and out of your power to prevent. I will say, 
however, that the dread of your disapprobation has given me some anxious 
moments, and though, perhaps, I am become by many privations the most 
independent woman in the world, I feel as if acting without a parent's consent 
till you write kindly to 

Your faithful servant* 

Piozzi Letters^ ii. 374. 

« gjj^ Circular. 

'As one of the executors of Mr. Thrale's will and guardian to his 
daughters, I think it my duty to acquaint you that the three eldest left Bath 
last Friday for their own house at Brighthelmstone in company with an 
amiable friend. Miss Nicholson, who has sometimes resided with us here, 
and in whose society they may, I think, find some advantages and certainly 
no disgrace. I waited on them to Salisbury, Wilton, &c., and offered to 
attend them to the seaside myself, but they preferred this lady's company to 
mine, having heard that Mr. Piozzi is coming back from Italy, and judging 
perhaps by our past friendship and continued correspondence that his return 
would be succeeded by our marriage. 

I have the honour to be, Sir, your obedient servant. 

Bath, June 30, 1784.' 

Hayward's Piozzi^ i. 1 10. 

Miss Nicholson, ' who,' Mrs. Piozzi September 17, 1764, and so was only 

says, *' has sometimes resided with us nineteen. Baretti has the following 

here,' was * directed to her door by note on Mrs. Thrale's first letter : — 

Providence' early in the very month in ' She was not yet married when she 

which she wrote this letter. lb, ii. 334. wrote her last letter but one to John- 

In another passage she writes: — 'Miss son. This letter of hers is falsified 

Thrale was of age by now, and I left for the purpose of this edition, and 

Miss Nicholson, the Bishop's grand- the answer to it [Letter 972] is a mere 

daughter, whom they appeared to forgery of hers. But this I shall prove 

like exceedingly, with themy but she in another place.' Johnson's letter 

soon quitted her post on observing was not forged, as Mr. Hayward saw 

that they gave people to understand the original. It was not, however, as 

she was a cast mistress of dear Piozzi, it is made to appear by Mrs. Piozzi, 

who never saw her face out of their an answer to her first letter, 
company, except once at a dinner ' First published in Hayward*s 

visit.' lb. i. 275. Miss Thrale was Piozziy i. ill. 
not of age. She was bom on In the Gentlemat^s Magazltu for 

• This line is quoted by Boswell, Lifc^ iv. 339. 

married ; 



4o6 To Mrs. Thrale. \MJD.vn^ 

married ; if it is yet undone, let us once ' more iaUk together. If 
you have abandoned your children and your religion, God forgive 
your wickedness; if you have forfeited your fame and your 
country, may your folly do no further mischief If the last act 
is yet to do, I who have loved you, esteemed you, reverenced 
you. and served yau^ I who long thought you the first of woman- 
kind, entreat that, before your fate is irrevocable, I may once 
more see you. I was, I once was. 

Madam, most truly yours, 

July 2, 1784, Sam: Johnson. 

I will come down if you will permit it'. 

December, 1784, ii. 895, a spurious printed in Croker's Barweli^ p. 777. 
copy of this letter is given — * an " * The four words fdiich I have 

adumbration' of it as Johnson, ac- printed in italics are indistinctly 

cording to Hawkins, called it. written, and cannot be satisfactorily 

Hawkins's y((7^/yj<7M, p. 569. It is re- made out' Note by Mr. Hayward 

• To this letter Mrs. Thrale sent the following answer : — 

'SIR, *July4,i784. 

* I have this morning received from you so rough a letter in reply to one 
which was both tenderly and respectfully written, that I am forced to desire 
the conclusion of a correspondence which I can bear to continue no longer. 
The birth of my second husband is not meaner than that of my first ; his 
sentiments are not meaner ; his profession is not meaner, and his superiority 
in what he professes acknowledged by all mankind. It is want of fortune 
then that is ignominious ; the character of the man I have chosen has no 
other claim to such an epithet. The religion to which he has been always 
a zealous adherent will, I hope, teach him to forgive insults he has not 
deserved ; mine will, I hope, enable me to bear them at once with dignity 
and patience. To hear that I have forfeited my fame is indeed the greatest 
insult I ever yet received. My fame is as unsullied as snow, or I should think 
it unworthy of him who must henceforth protect it. 

I write by the coach the more speedily and effectually to prevent your 
coming hither. Perhaps by my fame (and I hope it is so) you mean only 
that celebrity which is a consideration of a much lower kind. I care for that 
only as it may give pleasure to my husband and his friends. 

Farewell, dear Sir, and accept my best wishes. You have always com- 
manded my esteem, and long enjoyed the fruits of a friendship never 
infringed by one harsh expression on my part during twenty years of familiar 
talk. Never did I oppose your will, or control your wish ; nor can your 
unmerited severity itself lessen my regard ; but till you have changed your 
opinion of Mr. Pioxzi let us converse no more. God bless you.' 

H ay ward's /*/V75rar/, i. m. 

In this letter by the use of the word Johnson to believe that she is already 
husband she evidently wishes to lead married. 

To 



Aetat. 74.] 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



407 



971. 

To Sir Joshua Reynolds. 
[London], July 6, 1784. Published in the Life^ iv. 348. 



972. 

To Mrs. Thrale*. 
Dear Madam, London, July 8, 1784. 

What you have done, however I may lament it, I have no 
pretence to resent, as it has not been injurious to me : I there- 
fore breathe out one sigh more of tenderness, perhaps useless; 
but at least sincere *. 

I wish that God may grant you every blessing, that you may 
be happy in this world for its short continuance, and eternally 
happy in a better state ; and whatever I can contribute to your 
happiness I am very ready to repay, for that kindness which 
soothed twenty years of a life radically wretched. 

Do not think slightly of the advice which I now presume to 
offer. Prevail upon Mr. Piozzi to settle in England ^ : you may 



Johnson, speaking of her to Miss 
Bumey in the following November, 
said : — * If I meet with one of her 
letters I bum it instantly. I have 
burnt all I can find.' Mme. 
D'Arbla/s Diary, ii. 328. The one 
just quoted escaped the fire, and 
being found among his papers was 
returned by Hawkins, one of his 
executors, to the writer. Memoirs 
0/ Miss Hawkins, i. 66. The other 
two executors, Sir Joshua Reynolds 
and Sir William Scott, seven years 
later, talking in Malone's presence, 
' concerning that despicable woman, 
Mrs. Piozzi,' told him of these two 
letters ' which she had suppressed. 
She said in hers, as both Sir W. Scott 
and Sir Joshua agreed, that however 
she might have disgraced Miss 
Salusbury by marrying the brewer 
she could not di^prace Mrs. Tkrale 
by marrying Piozzi.' Prior's Malone, 



p. 412. Johnson praised Reynolds 
for the truthfulness of his stories 
(Piozzi's Anecdotes, p. 1 16) ; in Scott 
who became a great Judge we should 
have looked for accuracy. Yet how 
wide was their report from the truth ! 

* Piozzi Letters, ii. 375. 

According to the heading there 
given this letter was addressed ' To 
Mrs. Piozzi.' Mr. Hayward however 
says that both this letter and that of 
the 2nd were addressed, *To Mrs. 
Thrale.' Hayward's Piozzi, i. 109. 
Nevertheless with strange careless- 
ness in printing it he heads it ^ To 
Mrs. Piozzi.* 

' * How could Johnson have ever 
written such stuflf?'— Baretti. 

^ On this Mrs. Piozzi has the 
following note : — * Dr. Johnson's 
advice corresponded exactly with 
Mr. Piozzi's intentions. He was im* 
patient to show Italy to me and me 

live 



4o8 



To Mrs. Thrale. 



[A.D. 1784. 



live here with more dignity than in Italy, and with more security : 
your rank will be higher, and your fortune more under your own 
eye. I desire not to detail all my reasons, but every argument 
of prudence and interest is for England, and only some phantoms 
of imagination ' seduce you to Italy. 

I am afraid however that my counsel is vain, yet I have 
eased my heart by giving it. 

When Queen Mary took the resolution of sheltering herself 
in England, the Archbishop of St. Andrew's, attempting to dis- 
suade her, attended on her journey; and when they came to the 
irremeable ' stream that separated the two kingdoms, walked by 
her side into the water, in the middle of which he seized her 
bridle, and with earnestness proportioned to her danger and his 
own affection pressed her to return. The Queen went forward ^ 



to the Italians, but never meant to 
forbear bringing his wife home again, 
and showing he had brought her. 
Well aware of the bustle his marriage 
made, it was his most earnest wish 
that every doubt of his honour and 
of my happiness should be dispelled ; 
so that whilst our ladies [her 
daughters] and Madame D'Arblay, 
that was Miss Bumey, and Baretti, 
and all the low Italians of the Hay- 
market who hated my husband, were 
hatching stories how he had sold my 
jointure, had shut me up in a con- 
vent, &c., we made our journey to 
our residence in Italy as showy as 
we possibly could. All the English 
at every town partook of our 
hospitality ; the inhabitants came 
flocking, nothing loth, and we sent 
presents to our beautiful daughters 
by every hand that would carry 
them.* Hay ward's Piozzi^ i. 275. 

' In the opening lines of Rasselas 
Johnson addresses those * who pursue 
with eagerness the phantoms of hope.* 

' * Occupat vCneas aditum custode 
sepulto, 
Evaditque celer ripam irreme- 
abilis undse.* 



*The keeper charm'd, the chief 

without delay 
Pass'd on and took the irreme- 
able way.* 

Dryden. Mneid^ vi. 404. 
See ante^ i. 130. 
^ Mary did not cross the Solway 

Non horseback, but the arm of the sea 
in a fishing-boat, from Dundrennan 
in Galloway to Workington. John- 
son's story, which I did not find in 
Robertson, Hume,Keith or Anderson, 
I traced to Adam Blackwood, who 
gives the following account : — 

^ Messirejean Hamilton, A scheues- 
que de sainct Andr^, et pilmat de 
TEglise d'Escosse, h6me fort aag^, 
et de longue experience, ne peust 
jamais trouuer ceste opinion bonne, 
cognoissant de tout temps Tinfidelit^ 
du conseil d'Angleterre. ♦ ♦ * Mais 
tout cela ne peut oster de la teste de 
ceste Princesse Tasseurance qu'elle 
auoit prisauxpromessesdesacousine. 
Quoy voyant ce venerable Prelat, et 
qu'elle se precipitoit en un peril tout 
euident, ainsi qu'elle se mettoit sur 
I'eau pour descendre en cette terre 
fatale, il se mit k genoux, la saisit au 
corps auec les deux bras, et auec 

If 



A«tat. 74.] 



To the Reverend Dr. Adams. 



409 



If the parallel reaches thus far, may it go no further. — The 

tears stand in my eyes. 

I am going into Derbyshire, and hope to be followed by your 
good wishes, for I am, with great affection, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

Any letters that come for me hither will be sent me '. 



978. 

To James Boswell. 

[London], July 11, 1784. Published in part in the Life^ iv. 351, 
where it is misdated June 11. 



974. 

-^ ^ To THE Reverend Dr. Adams*. 

Dear Sir, 

I am going into Staffordshire and Derbyshire in quest of 
some relief^, of which my need is not less than when I was 
treated at your house with so much tenderness. 

I have now received the collations for Xenophon, which I have 
sent you with the letters that relate to them. I cannot at 
present take any part in the work, but I would rather pay for a 



larmes luy dist, qu' elle auroit la 
peine de le trainer, si elle passoit plus 
outre. Mais en fin la voyant obstinee 
en son malheur, et ne pouuant 
resister k sa volont^, apres luy avoir 
encores une fois remonstr^ que sa 
Majesty s'alloit perdre, son estat, 
son Royaume, ses bons seruiteurs, 
et la foy Catholique, il lui demanda 
cong^ de se retirer,' &c. Adami 
Blacvodaei [Adam Blackwood] Ofera 
Omnia, 1644, p. 589. Blackwood, or 
his French printer, makes a strange 
hash of the names of places. We find 
Dundreuen, Vvirldnton, Cokirmouth 
and Courberlande. The ' venerable 
prelate,' who was a man of the loosest 
life and a cruel persecutor, was hanged 
three years later. Froude's Hist, of 
England^ ed. 1870, vi. 221, 3; ix. 419. 



' ' In a memorandum on this letter 
Mrs. Piozzi says : — " I wrote him a 
very kind and affectionate letter."' 
Hayward's Piozziy L 1 14. 

* First published in Croker's Bos- 
well, page 782. Corrected by me 
from the original in the possession of 
Messrs. J. Pearson & Co., 5 Pall 
Mall Place, S.W. 

The Letter bears no address and 
is misdated June 1 1 . It was evidently 
written in July. On June 1 1 Johnson 
was with Boswell at Dr. Adams's 
house. It is ctuious that a Letter 
written to Boswell was also misdated 
June II. Ufe, iv. 351. 

The original was sold by Messrs. 
Christie & Co. on June 5, 1888 (Lot 

49)> for ll 5J- 
^ He set out on July 13. Z^,iv.353. 

collation 



4IO 



To the Reverend Dr. Adams. 



[AJ>. 1784. 



collation of Oppian, than see it neglected ; for the Frenchmen 
act with great liberality. Let us not fall below them *. 

I know not in what state Dr. Edwards left his book *. Some 
of his emendations seemed to me to (be) irrefragably certain, and 
such therefore as ought not to be lost. His rule was not (to) 
change the text, and, therefore, I suppose he has left notes to be 
subjoined. As the book is posthumous some account of the 
Editor ought to be given. 

You have now the whole process of the correspondence before 
you. When the Prior is answered, let some apology be made 
for me ^. 

I was forced to devide [sic] the collation, but as it is paged, 
you will easily put every part in its proper place. 

Be pleased to convey my respects to Mrs. and Miss Adams*. 

I am, Sir, 

Your most humble servant, 

London, June [July il], 1784. SaM : JOHNSON. 

976. 
To THE Reverend Mr. Bagshaw. 

[London], July 12, 1784. Published in the Life^ iv. 351. 



* The collation was probably 
wanted for an edition of Oppian by 
Belin de Ballu of which one volume 
was published at Strasbourg in 1786. 
The editor was *conseiller k la 
cour des monnaies * at Paris. He 
does not seem to have received the 
collation from Oxford *. 

* For Dr. Edwards see antey 
ii. 257. Johnson wrote to him on 
November 2, 1778: — *What comes 
of Xenophon } If you do not like the 
trouble of publishing the book, do 
not let your commentaries be lost.* 
Life, iii. 367. He lived long enough 
to complete the Greek text and the 
Latin version of the Memorabilia, the 
work on which he was engaged. The 
notes and the various readings were 
supplied by his friend, Henry Owen, 



who had the use of his manuscripts. 

* The Frenchmen * had collated the 
three manuscripts in the King's 
Library at Paris. The book was 
published in 1785. 

^ The Prior was, no doubt, the 
Prior of the English Benedictines in 
whose convent Johnson had a cell 
appropriated to him. Life, ii. 402. 
See ante, i. 402, for Johnson's Letter 
to Dr. Adams in which he introduces 

* a learned Benedictine.' 

* *Miss Adams happened to tcU 
him that a little coffee-pot, in which 
she had made his coffee, was the 
only thing she could call her own. 
He turned to her with a complacent 
gallantry, " Don't say so, my dear ; 
I hope you don't reckon my heart as 
nothing." * Ldfe, iv. 292. 



* I am indebted for this information to Mr. H. Omont of the Bibliothequc Nationale, 
Paris. 

To 



Aetat. 74.] 



To John Ryland. 



411 



976. 

To Bennet Langton. 
[London], July 12, 1784. Published in the Life, iv. 352. 



977. 

Dear Sir, '^^ J^"'* ^^^^^^ '• 

Mr. Payne ' will pay you fifteen pounds towards the stone 
of which you have kindly undertaken the care. The Inscrip- 
tion is in the hands of Mr. Bagshaw, who has a right to inspect 
it before he admits it into his Church. 

Be pleased to let the whole be done with privacy, that I may 
elude the vigilance of the papers. 

I am going for a while into Derbyshire in hope of help from 
the air of the country. 

I hope your journey has benefited you. The Club ^ prospers ; 
we meet by ten at a time. 

God send that you and I may enjoy and improve each other. 

I am, dear Sir, 

Your most humble servant, 

July 12, 1784. Sam : Johnson. 

To Mr. Ryland 
in Muscovy Court 
Tower hill. 



' First published in Notes and 
Queries i 5th S. vii. 381. Corrected 
by me from the original in the 
possession of Mr. Alfred Morrison, of 
Fonthill House. 

For Mr. Ryland see ante, i. 56. 

On the same day Johnson wrote 
the following letter : — 
* To the Reverend Mr. Bagshaw, at 
Bromley. 

*SlR, 

Perhaps you may remember, 
that in the year 1753 [1752], you 
committed to the ground my dear wife. 
I now entreat your permission to lay 
a stone upon her ; and have sent the 
inscription, that, if you find it proper, 
you may signify your allowance. 



You will do me a great favour by 
showing the place where she lies, 
that the stone may protect her re- 
mains. 

Mr. Ryland will wait on you for 
the inscription, and procure it to be 
engraved. You will easily believe 
that I shrink from this mournful 
office. When it is done, if I have 
strength remaining, I will visit 
Bromley once again, and pay you 
part of the respect to which you have 
a right from, Reverend Sir, 

Your most humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson.' 
/>/;?, iv. 351. 

■ Ante, ii. 363, n. i. 

^ The Essex Head Club. 

To 



412 To Sir John Hawkins. [aj>.i784. 

878. 

To Sir John Hawkins. 

Ashbourne, [?July, 1784]. 

In Hawkins's Life of Johnson^ page 571, the following extract is given 
from a letter written by Johnson to Hawkins from Ashbourne : — 

* Poor Thrale ! I thought that either her virtue or her vice would 
have restrained her from such a marriage. She is now become a 
subject for her enemies to exult over, and for her friends, if she has 
any left, to forget or pity.' 

By *her virtue' Hawkins understood he meant the love of her 
children, and by her vice, her pride. * He looked upon the desertion 
of children by their parents, and the withdrawing from them that pro- 
tection, that mental nutriment which in their youth they are capable 
of receiving, the exposing them to the snares and temptations of the 
world, and the solicitations and deceits of the artful and designing, as 
most unnatural.' 

878. 

To Dr. Brocklesby. 
Ashbourne, July 20, 1784. Published in the LifCy iv. 353. 

880. 

To Sir Joshua Reynolds. 
Ashbourne, July 21, 1784. Published in the Life^ iv. 366. 

881. 

To James Boswell. 

Ashbourne, July 26, 1784. Published in part in the Life^ iv. 348, 

378-9- 

882. 

To James Boswell. 

[Ashbourne], July 28, 1784. Published in part in the Ufe^ iv. 379. 

883. 

To Dr. Brocklesby. 
[Ashbourne], July 31, 1784. Published in the Life^ iv. 354. 

884. 

To Dr. Burney. 
[Ashbourne], August 2, 1784. Published in part in the Lift^ iv. 360. 

To 



Aeut. 74.] To Dr. Brocklesby. '413 

886. 

To Dr. Brocklesby. 
[Ashbourne], August 5, 1784. Published in part in the Life^ iv. 354. 

886. 

To John Hoole. 
[Ashbourne], August 7, 1784. Published in the LifCy iv. 359. 

887. 
To Dr. Brocklesby. 
[Ashbourne], August 12, 1784. Published in the Lifey iv. 354. 

888. 

^ To Heely. 

Ashbourne, August 12, 1784. Published in the Ufcy iv. 371. 

888. 

To John Hoole. 
[Ashbourne], August 13, 1784. Published in the lAfe^ iv. 359. 

880. 

To Dr. Brocklesby. 
[Ashbourne], August 14, 1784. Published in the lAfe^ iv. 354. 

881. 

To Thobias Davies. 
[Ashbourne], August 14, 1784. Published in the lAfe^ iv. 365. 

882. 

To Dr. Brocklesby. 
[Ashbourne], August 16, 1784. Published in the Life^ iv. 354. 

888. 

To Dr. Brocklesby. 
[Ashbourne], August 19, 1784* Published in the Life^ iv. 355. 

884. 

To George Nicol. 
Ashbourne, August 19, 1784. Published in the Life^ iv. 365 '. 

' See Appendix C. 

To 



414 



To Francesco Sastres. 



[AJD.lTSi. 



886. 

To Sir Joshua Reynolds. 
[Ashbourne], August 19, 1784. Published in the Z^, iv. 366. 

886. 

To THE Right Hon. William Windham. 
[Ashbourne, about August 21, 1784.] Published in the Ufe^ iv. 362. 

887. 

To Dr. Brocklesby. 
[Ashbourne], August 21, 1784. Published in the Li/e^ iv. 355. 

988. 

To Francesco Sastres'. 
Dear Sir, Ashbourne, Augrust 21, 1784. 

I am glad that a letter has at last reached you ; what became 
of the two former, which were directed to Mortimer instead of 
Margaret Street ^ I have no means of knowing, nor is it worth 
the while to enquire ; they neither enclosed bills, nor contained 
secrets. 



* Piozzi Letters^ ii. 405. 

Boswell, perhaps to punish Mr. 
Sastres for not letting him pub- 
lish Johnson's letters to him, thus 
contemptuously mentions him : — * Dr. 
Johnson associated with persons the 
most widely different in manners, 
abilities, rank, and accomplishments. 
He was at once the companion of 
the brilliant Colonel Forrester of the 
Guards, who wrote The Polite Phi- 
losopher, and of the auk ward and 
uncouth Robert Levet ; of Lord 
Thurlow, and Mr. Sastres, the Italian 
master ; and has dined one day with 
the beautiful, gay, and fascinating 
Lady Craven, and the next with 
good Mrs. Gardiner, the tallow- 
chandler, on Snow-hill.' Life, iii. 21. 
Mr. Sastres was present when John- 
son, a few days before his death. 



burnt his mother's letters. *They 
drew from him a flood of tears. 
When the paper they were written 
on was all consumed he saw him 
cast a melancholy look upon their 
ashes, which he took up and ex- 
amined to see if a word was still 
legible.' Piozzi Letters^ ii. 383. 
* The good Mr. Hoole,* writes Miss 
Burney, * and equally good Mr. Sasties 
attend Dr. Johnson rather as nurses 
than friends, for they sit whole hours 
by him without even speaking to him. 

He will not, it seems, be talked to 

at least very rarely. At times, indeed 
he re-animates; but it is soon over. 
and he says of himself, ** I am now 
like Macbeth — question enrages me." * 
Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, ii. 333. 

' Mortimer Street is close to Mar- 
garet Street. 

My 



Aetot. 74.] 



To Francesco Sastres. 



415 



My health was for some time quite at a stand, if it did not 
rather go backwards ; but for a week past it flatters me with 
appearances of amendment, which I dare yet hardly credit. My 
breath has been certainly less obstructed for eight days ; and 
yesterday the water seemed to be disposed to a fuller flow. But 
I get very little sleep ; and my legs do not like to carry me. 

You were kind in paying my forfeits at the club ' ; it cannot 
be expected that many should meet in the summer, however 
they that continue in town should keep up appearances as well 
as they can. I hope to be again among you. 

I wish you had told me distinctly the mistakes in the French 
words. The French is but a secondary and subordinate part of 
your design ; exactness, however, in all parts is necessary, though 
complete exactness cannot be attained ; and the French are so 
well stocked with dictionaries, that a little attention may easily 
keep you safe from gross faults ; and as you work on, your 
vigilance will be quickened, and your observation regulated ; 
you will better know your own wants, and learn better whence 
they may be supplied. Let me know minutely the whole state 
of your negotiations. Dictionaries are like watches, the worst is 
better than none, and the best cannot be expected to go quite 
true '. 

The weather here is very strange summer weather ; and we 
are here two degrees nearer the north than you. I was I think 
loath to think a fire necessary in July, till I found one in the 



' The Essex-Head Club. *The 
terms are lax,' wrote Johnson, * and 
the expenses light. We meet thrice 
a week, and he who misses forfeits 
twopence.' Li/ej iv. 254. Mrs. Piozzi 
has the following note on this pas- 
sage:— * There is a story of poor 
dear Garrick, whose attention to his 
money-stuff never forsook him— re- 
lating that when his last day was 
drawing to an end, he begged a 
gentleman present to pay his club- 
forfeits, "and don't let them cheat 
you,*' added he, "for there cannot 
be above nine, and they will make 



out ten.'* * Hay ward's Piossiy i. 324. 
■ This and Johnson's three next 
letters to Sastres show that his friend 
was hoping to publish a Dictionary 
in which the French was to be given. 
Perhaps it was to be a rival to 
Bottarelli's Dictionary ' of the three 
most fashionable languages in Europe ' 
— English, French and Italian — pub- 
lished in 1777. The design seems 
to have come to nothing. In 1789 
Sastres published // Mercurio 
Italicoy a monthly magazine, with 
the Italian and English in parallel 
columns. 

servants' 



xr<S 



TV 



9tP99SBd BcaiL and. rfno^ic iiiwjiJr f ii fi fff L txi as nmr*t vuiiiyfi 



tsrnre ^ ipb^ : x jester is 2. 



Sa.W: J«3H3S01!K- 



Ti 



Lvi.ia0» 



Landtuf. Ao^ist z^^ r7ft«u Pnhiwhfif in Ac /lgi& fv. jUc 



To Dv. BaocxzJEav. 



To Ds. Baonr.cfflT. 
[Ajbhonrzie]^ V| W rinri r r 2, 17S4. Pobfiabed ra the X^fe. £v. J56L 



To Sol Joshua Rx73K}li3& 
[.\iihr>scrne], September 2, 17^4- Pnbiished in ±e /Lg^^ £▼. j66. 

10O3L 

To ¥ra3cesco S.\sraLis\ 
Dear Sir, Ashbourne. Sepc 2, 1754. 

Your critick seems to me to be an exqmszte Fnenciiinan; 
hts Tcmzxks are nice ; they would at least have esc^ied me. I 
wwh you better luck with your next specimen : though £f such 



' On Aagnst 2 be wrote to I>r. 
Btirney :— ' I am now redoced to 
tbrnk, and am at last content to talk 
of the weather. Pride must have a 
laH/ Z^/, iy, 560. On September 7 
fforace Walpole wrc^c : — 'The som- 
mer is come at last, My Lord, dressed 
as fine as a birthday, though not 
with %ff many flowers on its head, 
f n truth, the san is an old fool, who 
apes the modem people of iiashkm 



by arriTing too late : the day is going 
to bed before be makes hi^ appear- 
ance.' LetUrz^ viiL 502. * It is iH 
with me,' wrote Charles T^w^h < when 
I begin to look which way the wind 
sets. Ten years ago, I literally did 
not know the point from the bniad 
end of the vane, which it was rh^t 
indicated the quarter.' Lamb*sZ>//^rT, 
ed. by Ainger, vl 147. 
' PiasTi LetterSy vl 407. 

slips 



Aetat. 74.] 



To Francesco Scistres. 



417 



slips as these are to condemn a dictionary, I know not when 
a dictionary will be made. I cannot yet think that gourmander 
is wrong ; but I have here no means of verifying my opinion. 

My health, by the mercy of God, still improves ; and I have 
hope of standing the English winter, and of seeing you, and reading 
Petrarch ^ at Bolt-court ; but let me not flatter myself too much. 
I am yet weak, but stronger than I was. 

I suppose the club is now almost forsaken ; but we shall I hope 
meet again. We have lost poor Allen ; a very worthy man, and 
to me a very kind and oflicious neighbour '. 

Of the pieces ascribed by Bembo to Virgil, the Dirce (ascribed 
I think to Valerius Cato), the Copa and the Maretum are, together 
with the Culex and Ceiris^ in Scaliger's Appendix ad Virgilium. 
The rest I never heard the name of before. 

I am highly pleased with your account of the gentleman and 
lady with whom you lodge; such characters have sufficient 
attractions to draw me towards theih ; you are lucky to light 
upon them in the casual commerce of life. 

Continue, dear Sir, to write to me ; and let me hear any thing 
or nothing, as the chance of the day may be. 

I am, Sir, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

1004. 

To Dr. Burney. 

[Ashboume], September 4, 1 784. Published in part in the Ufcy iv. 360 



1006. 

To William Cumberland Cruikshank. 
Ashboume, September, 4, 1784. Published in the Life^ iv. 365. 



' For Johnson's knowledge of Ita- 
lian see Ufe^ i. 1 1 5. In 1776 * he pro- 
posed to apply vigorously to the study 
of it.* lb, iii. 90. At 3 p.m. on August 
9, 1 781, he recorded, *in the summer- 
house at Streatham: — Having prayed, 
I purpose to employ the next six 
weeks upon the Italian language, for 
my settled study.' lb, iv. 134. 



' Writing about Allen's death to 
Dr. Brocklesby on July 31 he says : — 
*' I thought your letter long in coming. 
But, you know, nocitura pctuntury 
the letter which I so much desired, 
tells me that I have lost one of my 
best and tenderest friends.' lb, iv. 
354. For officious see ante, iL 357, 



If. I. 



VOL. II. 



Ee 



To 



41 8 To Frmmuuo Smsins. 



looa 

To Jobs Hocmx. 
[AAboofiie^ Sr iU fi utie i 4, 1784, PnhJfArd id the L^ iv. 360L 

1007. 

To Snt Joshua Rehtoldsc 

Ashbcwnie, Sfn i ru i l i ei % 1784. Poblidied in the Ufc, vw. 34S, 367. 

1008. 
To THE Lord High Chahceixor Thurixyw. 
[Ashboonie], September [9], 1784. Published in the Z^, iv. 349. 

1009. 

To Dr. Brocklesbv. 
[Ashboimie], September 9, 1784. Published in the Lift^ iv. 357. 

1010. 

To Dr. Brocklesby. 
[Ashbourne], September 11, 1784. Published in the Lift, iv. 357. 

1011. 

To Dr. Brocklesby. 
[Ashbourne], September 16, 1784. Published in the Ufe^ iv. 357. 

1012. 

To Francesco Sastres*. 

Dear Sir, Ashbourne, Sept. 16, 1784. 

What you have told me of your landlord and his lady at 
Brompton, has made them such favourites, that I am not sorry 
to hear how you are turned out of your lodgings, because the 
good is greater to them than the evil is to you. 

The death of dear Mr. Allen gave me pain. When after some 
time of absence I visit a town, I find my friends dead ; when I 
leave a place, I am followed with intelligence, that the friend 
whom I hope to meet at my return is swallowed in the grave. 
This is a gloomy scene ; but let us learn from it to prepare for 

' Piossi Letters^ ii. 409. 

our 



AeUt. 76.] 



To John Ryland. 



419 



our own removal. Allen is gone; Sastres and Johnson are 
hasting after him ; may we be both as well prepared 1 

I again wish your next specimen success. Paymistress can 
hardly be said without a preface, (it may be expressed by a word 
perhaps not in use, Pay mistress '). 

The club is, it seems, totally deserted ; but as the forfeits go 
on, the house does not suffer; and all clubs I suppose are un- 
attended in the summer. We shall I hope meet in winter, and 
be cheerful. 

After this week, do not write to me till you hear again from 
me, for I know not well where I shall be ; I have grown weary 
of the solitude of this place, and think of removal '. 

I am, Sir, 

Your, &c., 

Sam: Johnson. 

1018. 

To Sir Joshua Reynolds. 
[Ashbourne], September i8,- 1784. Published in the Lifiy iv. 368. 

1014. 

DEAR Sir, '^^ J^«^ Ryland^ 

You are not long without an answer. I had this day in three 
letters three histories of the Flying Man in the great Ballon. I 
am glad that we do as well as our neighbours. Lunardi, I find, 
forgot his barometer and therefore can [sic] to what height he 
ascended ^. 

Direct, if you please, your next letter to Lichfield, I am 



' The passage within brackets is, 
I suppose, the preface which Sastres 
is to use. ' Johnson disapproved of 
parentheses,' writes Boswell, ' and I 
believe in all his voluminous writings 
not half-a-dozen of them will be 
found.' Life^ iv. 190. 

' Five days earlier he had written 
to Dr. Brocklesby : — * I have no com- 
pany here, and shall naturally come 
home hungry for conversation.' lb. 

iv. 357. 
^ First published in Notes and 



Queries^ 5th S. vii. 381. Compared 
by me with the original in the posses- 
sion of Mr. Frederick Barker, of 41 
Gunterstone Road, West Kensington, 
London. 

^ The balloon started from the 
Artillery Ground, Finsbury. There 
was a delay in providing enough * in- 
flammable air,' and Lunardi, fearful 
lest the mob should break in, went 
up alone. In the pocket of his 
companion, Mr. Biggins, was the 
barometer. 'We saw everything so 



E e 2 



desirous 



420 



To Jakm RyUagd. 



desirooa of going tiiitficr; I Irvc ni dcanal soEtadc^ aad beo^ ncwr 

a Ettic better and therefore more at leisnre for eactemal anznse- 

meats. I find the hours sometimes heavy^ at least for some reason 

or other I wish for change^ 

Mr. Wyndham ^ was with me. a day here, and tried to wheedle 

me to Oxford, and I perhaps may take Oxford hi my way home. 

I am. Sir, 

Yom- most affectionate 

Sept. la, 1784'. SaX: JOffKSOX. 

To 5Cr. Ryiand, Merdumt in London. 



ifistxncdy/ wroce a spectator, 'and 
were so much satisfied widi tlae saietj 
dL the attempt that it was by no 
VDgaiSiA that awfbl or sofemn scene 
that I expected — everybodj greatly 
interested, but ciieexfiii aiid gaj.' 
Lanaidi landed three miles beyond 
Ware [Ware is twenty-one mOes horn 
London]. The balloon was brooght 
back that night, ^and was lodged, 
amidst the acrfamations of a great 
mob, at Biggins' boose in Essex 
Street' Bentbam's Works, x. 136. 
Windham, calling at Burke's 
country-house on the 15th, had 
' found them all going to London the 
next day on the same errand as my- 
self, viz., to see Lunardi ascend.' 
Windham's Diary, p. 22. Horace 
Walpole wrote on September 
30 :— * I cannot fill my paper, as the 
newspapers do, with air-balloons ; 
which, though ranked with the in- 
vention of navigation, appear to me 
as childish as the flying kites of 
schoolboys. ... I was even disap- 
pointed after Lunardi's expedition 
had been prosperous ; you must know 
I have no ideas of space : when I 
heard how wonderfully he had soared, 
I concluded he had arrived within a 
stone's throw of the moon — alas ! he 
had not ascended above a mile and a 
half Letters, viii. 505. See Life, 

iv. 356, 358. 
' For Windham's visit see Life, iv. 



356, axsd fcr his record 
talk see AppexM&c D. 
* On this day wbich 
day he coasposed 



of Mr. Alfred 
hill House :— 



tileposses- 
of Font- 



September i8y 1784. 
Ahnighty God, merofiil Father, 
wbo art the giver of all good, *maM^ 
me to return Thee doe tt^Ttlr^ for the 
continuance of my life axid for the 
great mercies of the last year, for 
relief from the diseases that afflicted 
me, and all the comforts and aHevia* 
dons by which they were mitigated ; 
and O my gradoos God make me 
truly thankful for the caU by which 
thou hast awakened my conscience, 
and summoned me to Repentance. 
Let not thy call, O Lord, be forgotten 
or thy summons neglected, but let the 
residue of my life, whatever it shall be, 
be passed in true contrition, and 
diligent obedience. Let me repent 
of the sins of my past years and so 
keep thy laws for the time to come, 
that when it shall be thy good 
pleasure to call me to another state, 
I may find mercy in thy sight. Let 
thy Holy Spirit support me in the 
hour of death, and O Lord grant me 
pardon in the day of Judgement, for 
the sake of Jesus Christ, our LoixL 
Amen.* 

To 



Aetat. 76.] 



To John Ryland. 



421 



1016. 

To Dr. Brocklesby. 

Lichfield, September 29, 1784. Published in the Life^ iv. 357, 



1016. 

DEAR Sir, '^^ J^«^ "^^^^t^^ 

At my return hither I had the gratification of finding two 
of my friends, whom I left as I thought, about two months ago, 
quite broken with years and disease, very much recovered. It is 
great pleasure to a sick man to discover that sickness is not 
always mortal, so for age yet living to greater age. This is how- 
ever, whatever Rochefoucault or Swift may say, though certainly 
part of the pleasure, yet not all of it'. I rejoice in the welfare 
of those whom I love and who love me, and surely should have 
the same joy if I were no longer subject to mortality. As a being 
subject to so many wants, Man has inevitably a strong tendency 

to , so I hope as a Being capable of comparing good and 

evil he finds somethii^ to be preferred in good, and is therefore 
capable of benevolence, and supposing the volution of a good 
and bad man as to his own interest the same, would rejoice more 
in the prosperity of the good. 

I have for a little while past felt or imagined some declension 
in my health. I am still much better than I lately was, but I am 
a little afraid of the cold weather. 

You have not lately told me of Payne, in whom I take a great 



' First published In Notes and 
Quertesy 5th S. vii. 381. The copyist 
seems in places to have been at £iiult, 
for the meaning is not always to be 
discovered. 

» Swift's lines On the Death of Dr. 
Swift 'were occasioned,* he says, 
' by reading the following maxim in 
Rochefoucault — " Dans Tadversit^ 
de nos meilleurs amis nous trou- 
vons toujours quelque chose qui ne 
nous d^plait pas."' The following 
verses were perhaps in Johnson's 
thoughts : — 



'In all distresses of our friends 

We first consult our private ends ; 

While Nature kindly bent to ease us 

Points out some circumstance to 

please us. 
♦ « * « 

Yet should some neighbour feel a 

pain 
Just in the parts where I complain ; 
How many a message would he 

send! 
What hearty prayers that I should 

mend ! ' 
Swift's Works ^ ed. 1803, xi. 241, 4. 

interest 



422 To John Ryland. [AJi.uat. 



interest I think he may by indulgence recover, and that in- 
dulgence, since his employers allow it him% he will be very 
culpable if he denies himself. 

I am, dear Sir, 

Your affectionate humble servant, 

Sam: Johnson. 

Lichfield, Sept. 29, 1784. 
To Mr. Ryland, Merchant in London. 

1017. 

To THE Right Hon. William Windham. 
Lichfield, October 2, 1784. Published in the JJfe^ iv. 362. 

1018. 

To Sir Joshua Reynolds. 
[Lichfield], October 2, 1784. Published in the Ufty iv. 368. 

1018. 

To Mr. Perkins. 
Lichfield, October 4, 1 784. Published in the Life^ iv. 363. 

1020. 

To Dr. Brocklesby. 

[Lichfield], October 6, 1784. Published in the Life^ iv. 358. 

1021. 

DEAR Sir, '^^ J^"^ ^^^^^^- 

I am glad so many could yet meet at the club, where I do 
not yet despair of some cheerful hours. Your account of poor 
dear Payne makes me uneasy ; if his distemper were only the 
true Sea Scurvey, it is incurred easily, and I believe infallibly 
curable. But I am afraid it is worse, not a vitiation of particular 
humours, but a debilitation of the whole frame, an eflfect not of 

' Payne was Chief Accountant of original is in the possession of the 

the Bank of England. Life^ i. 317, Historical Society of Pennsylvania, 

«. I. as I learn from Mr. John W. Jordan 

" First published in the Literary the Assistant- Librarian. 
Gazette of December 8, 1849. The 

casualty 



A6tat.75.] To Dr. Heberden. 423 

casualty but of time. I wish his recovery, and hope that he 
wishes and prays for mine. 

I have for some days, to speak in the lightest and softest 
language, made no advances towards health. My breath is much 
obstructed, and my limbs are wells of water. However I have 
little cause to complain. 

My mind, however, is calmer than in the b^inning of the year, 
and I comfort myself with hopes of every kind, neither despairing 
of ease in this world, nor of happiness in another. 

I shall, I think, not return to town worse than I left it, and 

unless I gain ground again, not much better. But God, I humbly 

hope, will have mercy on me. 

I am, dear Sir, 

Your most humble servant, 

Lichfield, Oct. 6, 1784. Sam : JOHNSON. 

To Mr. Ryland, Merchant in London. 

1022. 
To Dr. Heberden ', 

Though I doubt not but Dr. Brocklesby would communicate 
to you any incident in the variation of my health which appeared 
either curious or important^ yet I think it time to gfive you some 
account of myself. 

Not long after the first great efflux of the water, I attained as 
much vigour of limbs and freedom of breath, that without rest or 
intermission, I went with Dr. Brocklesby to the top of the painters' 
Academy *. This was the greatest degree of health that I have 
obtained, and this, if it could continue, were perhaps sufficient ; 
but my breath soon failed, and my body grew weak. 

At Oxford (in June) I was much distressed by shortness of 
breath, so much that I never attempted to scale the library^: the 
water gained upon me, but by the use of squills was in a great 
measure driven away. 

In July I went to Lichfield, and performed the journey with 

' I owe the copy of this Letter to Croker's Boswell, page 789. 

the kindness of Mr. Godfrey Locker- ■ AntCy ii. 393. 

Lampson, of Rowfant, Crawley, where ^ The Bodleian Library, the ascent 

the original is preserved. The greater to which is one of sixty-five steps, 
part of it had been published in 



424 To Dr. Heberden. [aj>.i784- 

very little fatigue in the common vehicle, but found no help from 
my native air. I then removed to Ashboum, in Derbyshire, 
where for some time I was oppressed very heavily by the asthma ; 
and the dropsy had advanced so far, that I could not without 
great difficulty button me at my knees. Something was now 
to be done ; I took opium as little as I could, for quiet [?] and 
squills, as much as I could, for help ; but in my medical journal', 
August lo, I find these words, nee opio, nee squillis quidquam 
sensi [?] effectum. Animus jacct But I plied the vin^jar of 
squills to an hundred drops a day, and the powder to 4 grains. 
From the vinegar I am not sure that I ever perceived any con- 
sequence. [Here follow statements of the effect produced by these 
and other medicines.] I rose in the morning with my asthma 
perceptibly mitigated, and walked to Church that day with less 
struggle than on any day before. 

The water about this time ran again away, so that no hydro- 
pical humour has been lately visible. The relaxation of my 
breath has not continued as it was at first. But neither do I 
breathe with the same angustice and distress as before the re- 
mission. The summary of my state is this : 

I am deprived by weakness and the asthma of the power of 
walking beyond a very short space. 

I draw my breath with difficulty upon the least effort, but not 
with suffocation or pain. 

The dropsy still threatens, but gives way to medicine. 

The Summer has passed without giving me any strength. 

My appetite is, I think, less keen than it was, but not so abated 
as that its decline can be observed by any one but myself*. 

Be pleased to think on me sometimes. 

I am. Sir, 

Your most obliged 

and most humble servant, 

Lichfield, Oct. 13, 1784. SaM: JohNSON. 

' * Dr. Johnson had for some time than the 8th of November ; finding, 

kept a journal in Latin of the state of I suppose, that it was a mournful and 

his illness, and the remedies which unavailing register.* Ltfe, iv. 381. 
he used, under the title of ^gri " Dr. Taylor thought he ate too 

Ephemeris^ which he began on the much. Posty p. 425, n. 3. 
6th of July, but continued it no longer ' 

To 



Aetata 75.] To Frauccsco Sastres. 425 

1023. 

To THE Reverend George Strahan*. 

In Messrs. Puttick and Simpson's Auction Catalogue of August 20, 
1 86 1, Lot 625 is a Letter of Johnson to the Rev. Mr. Strahan at Islington, 
one page and a half quarto, from which the following extract is given : — 

* Lichfield, Oct. 19', 1784. 

I have hitherto omitted to give you that account of myself which 
the kindness with which you have treated me gives you a right to expect. 

I went away feeble, asthmatical, and dropsical The asthma had 
submitted [? remitted] for a time, but is now very troublesome, the 
weakness still continues, but the dropsy has disappeared, and has since, 
in the summer, yielded to medicine. I hope to return with a body 
somewhat, however little, relieved, and with a mind less dejected.' 

1024. 

To THE Right Hon. William Gerard Hamilton. 
Lichfield, October 20, 1784. Published in the Life^ iv. 363. 

1026. 

To John Paradise. 
Lichfield, October 20, 1784. Published in the Lif$^ iv. 364. 

1026. 

To John Nichols. 
Lichfield, October 20, 1784. Published in the Life^ iv. 369. 

1027. 

To Francesco Sastres'. 
Sir, Lichfield, October 20, 1784. 

You have abundance of naughty tricks ; is this your way of 
writing to a poor sick friend twice a week ? Post comes after 
post, and brings no letter from Mr. Sastres. If you know any 
thing, write and tell it ; if you know nothing, write and say that 
you know nothing. 

What comes of the specimen ^ ? If the booksellers want a speci- 
men, in which a keen critick can spy no faults, they must wait for 

' In their Auction Catalogue of 420), the date is given as Oct. 16. 
March 22, 1869, when the same ^ Piozzi Letters ^\\. ^\o. 

Letter was a second time sold (Lot ' AtUe^ ii. 415, if. 2. 

another 



I s 



RiSxy^amt ZI^ 




'jrar ^ii:, wsac i'lu. 



ijisrfer 'fttrrfcnarj 
ICn. D'ywnrjuing!! 

If Kr. 5cw5rd ae ax srwrt 3al aic is 

I asa recT-m's^L. and ossc bad ongiics. 

I atn. 



-Tiny ^ 



1 ^ii^'g 3> 



5.4 w: JoesKs: 



To THE 



3 Da. TATjGft^ 






rrxa a very 



!t2gitt I focDQci yc- 



wfuck nsbde me a Ifttle asgry. Ycc tzil me that rem^ay is 3 



' Tbt AatdeassA <2e^ C: 
f Ir^fiKOS, »fciidi had leac J^i 

A/uk-'>:r:.7 MSii Lin'* ti'jefr Tjz^i^fut^izri. 

* Ir. thft /V^wf <?/ <r« En^lizk Die- 

woT'i p^r/ecti&n! ykri\ :— ' Thoog*! in 
ft* ph:I/>Vyph:ciI aa-l exict sense ft 
''-an b^ ^>f little cje aix>>ng homas 
^^in;f%, it J* often lo much ccgraded 
ff/rr* if % '/n;f;nal ii^incatkm, tha: die 
^fM^,»:xu\*A'AXA have inserted in their 
w</rk, /A^ ptrfeciion of a language^ 
ar*'i, with :3i littJe more licentiousness, 
mi;{h* J*ave prrevailed on themselves 
to h;ive Ti^AtA the perfection of a 
hicttonary^ In the Preface to the 
ff/urth e/iitir/n Jie writes :— * He that 
nrttltriiikfin to r^mipile a Dictionary 
un^l^ftake* that, which if it compre- 
h#;rid«( th*! full 'rxtcnt f)f his design, he 
knowti )iirnv;lf unable to perform.' 
lVork%^ V. 1 6, 52. 

* f' ir»t fmblithed in the Catalogue 



-a'itnAjredM.: 



5^ 



nrfes. 



=▼ Dr. 

were ±e -fcccs 'X ad-.-ic« be ^^s^ tD 
>tr. Tzralc ±e day- be croL be 
rcsenied arrcaciy ir^zn tit * Tjsc 
siih'Staiicc ct ±e ac>-ice which Joba- 
scn ga\-e I fcczd in the ori^iria: MS 
ot his Diary in Pembroke CoCcge 
Library. It is as foUovs : — 'On 
Sunday ist, the phv-siciaji warned 
him against full meals, on Monday I 
pressed him to observ-ance of his 
rules, but wiUiout effect, and Tuesday 
I was absent, but his wife pressed 
forbearance upon him again unsuc- 
cessfully. At night I was called to 
him, and found him senseless in 
strong con\-ulsions.' Mrs. Pioczi had 
heard of Taylor's letter, for she 
writes : — * Dr. Johnson quarrelled 
with his truest friend, Dr. Taylor, for 
recommending to him a degree of 
temperance by which alone his life 

my 



Aetot. 76.] To Frauccsco Sastres. 427 

my power. This indeed I should be glad to hear, if I could 

once believe it But you mean to charge me with n^lecting or 

opposing my own health. Tell me therefore what I do that 

hurts me, and what I neglect that would help me. Tell it as 

soon as you can [Here a piece of the letter is torn off.] I would 

do it the sooner for your desires, and I hope to do it now in no 

long time, but shall hardly do it here. I hope soon to be at 

London. Answer the first part of this letter immediately. 

I am, dear Sir, 

Your most humble servant, 

Lichfield, Oct. 23, 1784. SaM: JohNSON. 

To the Reverend Dr. Taylor in Ashboum, Derbyshire. 

1029. 

To Dr. Brocklesby. 
[Lichfield], October 25, 1784. Published in part in the Life^ iv. 358. 

1080. 

To Dr. Burney. 
[Lichfield], November 1, 1784. Published in part in the Life, iv. 361. 

1081. 

To Francesco Sastres'. 
Dear Sir, Lichfield, Nov. I, 1784. 

I beg you to continue the frequency of your letters ; every 
letter is a cordial; but you must not wonder that I do not 
answer with exact punctuality. You may always have something 
to tell : you live among the various orders of mankind, and may 
make a letter from the exploits, sometimes of the philosopher, 
and sometimes of the pickpocket *. You see some ballons succeed 
and some miscarry, and a thousand strange and a thousand foolish 
things. But I see nothing ; I must make my letter from what I feel, 
and what I feel with so little delight, that I cannot love to talk of it 

could have been saved, and recom- ing of a balloon in St. George's Fields 
mending it in his omoi unaltered * a more ample harvest for the pick- 
phrase too.' Pioszi Letters, \\. ^Zi. pockets never was presented. Some 
' Piozzi Letters, W. ^\2, noblemen and gentlemen lost their 
^ The two orders sometimes met watches and many their purses.' 
For instance, this year at the launch- GtnUemates MagoMtfu^ 1784, p. 328. 

I am 



428 



To John Ryland. 



[AJ>.n8i 



I am certainly not ' to come to town, but do not omit to write; 
for I know not when I shall come, and the loss of a letter is not 
much. I am, dear Sir, 

Your, &€., 

Sam : Johnson. 



1032. 

To John Ryland*. 

Dear Sir, 

I have just received a letter in which you tell me that yoa 
love to hear from me, and I value such a declaration too mud 
to neglect it. To have a friend, and a friend like you, may be 
numbered amongst the first felicities of life ; at a time when 
weakness either of body or mind loses the pride and the con- 
fidence of self-sufficiency, and looks round for that help which 
perhaps human kindness cannot g^ve, and which we yet are 
willing to expect from one another. 

I am at this time very much dejected. The water gains fast 
upon me, but it has invaded me twice in this last half year, and 
has been twice expelled : it will, I hope, give way to the same 
remedies. 

My Breath is tolerably easy, and since the remission of asthma 
about two months ago, have \sic\ never been so strait and so 
much obstructed as it once was. 

I took this day a very uncommon dose of squills, but hitherto 
without eflfect, but I will continue their use very diligently. Let 
me have your prayers. 

I am now preparing myself for my return, and do not despair 
of some more monthly meetings ^ To hear that dear Payne is 
better gives me great delight. 



' Not is either a misprint or was 
inserted by mistake. 

" First published in the Catalogue 
of Mr. Alfred Morrison's Autographs, 
volume ii, page 344. 

The handwriting shows great 
feebleness in the writer. 

^ Of the old I\7 Lane Club. Ante^ 
ii. 358. On October 25 he wrote : — 



* The town is my element ; there arc 
my friends, there are my books, to 
which I have not yet bid farewell, 
and there are my amusements.' Ufe^ 
iv. 358. * The town is my element * 
is perhaps an adaptation of 'his 
shop is his element' in South's 
Sermons, ed, 1823, i. 20. 

I saw 



Aatat. 76.] 



To Sir John Hawkins. 



429 



I saw the draught of the stone. I am afraid the date is wrong. 
I think it should be 5a *. We will have it rectified. You say 
nothing of the cash but that you have paid it. My intention 
was the \sic\ Mr. Payne should have put into your hands fifteen 
pounds which he received for me at Midsummer *. If he has not 
done it, I will order you the money which is in his hands. 

Shall I ever be able to bear the sight of this stone ? In your 
company I hope I shall. You will not wonder that I write no 
more. God bless you for Christ's sake. 

I am, dear Sir, 

Your most humble servant, 

Lichfield, Nov. 4, 1784. SaM : JOHNSON. 

1083. 

To James Boswell. 
Lichfield, November 5, 1784. Published in the Life^ iv. 380. 

1084. 

To Sir John Hawkins ^ 

Lichfield, November 7, 1784. 

I am relapsing into the dropsy very fast, and shall make such 

haste to town that it will be useless to write to me ; but when I 

come, let me have the benefit of your advice, and the consolation 

of your company. 

1086. 

To Mrs. Aston and Mrs. Gastrell*. 

[Lichfield, ? November, 1784.] 
Mr. Johnson sends his compliments to the Ladies at Stowhill, 



' The gravestone on his wife. He 
had given the wrong date in his 
Letter to Mr. Bagshaw. Ante^ 
ii. 410, n, I. 

'No doubt the half-year's dividend 
on ' the one thousand pounds, three 
per cent annuities in the public funds' 
mentioned in Johnson's wilL Ldfe^ 
iv. 402, n, 2. Mr. Payne was the 
Chief Accountant of Uie Bank of 
England. 

^ First published in Hawkins's 
Life of Johnson^ page 576. Hawkins 



says that Johnson wrote to him 
several letters from Lichfield. Of 
the last of these the above is the con- 
cluding paragraph. 

* From the original in Pembroke 
College Library. 

On the back of the Letter is the 
following note : — * Probably written 
in 1784 on his departure from Lich- 
field.' 

Johnson on his way to London 
passed through Birmingham and 
Oxford, making a brief stay at both 

. of 



430 



To the Reverend Dr. Vyse. 



[AJ>.]iai 



of whom he would have taken a more formal leave, but that he 
was willing to spare a ceremony, which he hopes would hate 
been no pleasure to them, and would have been painful to him- 
self. 

1086. 

To Dr. Burney. 
London, November i6, 1784. Published in the Ufe^ iv. 377. 

1087. 

To Edmund Hector. 

London, November 17, 1784. Published in the Lije^ iv. 378. 

1088. 

To 



[? November, 1784.] 
In Messrs. Puttick and Simpson's Auction Catalogue of March 14, 
1866, Lot 181 is a Letter of Johnson ' ordering a parcel of books to be 
sent to Dr. Adams, written after his return from a visit to the doctor 
(the last he paid), 1784/ The last visit paid by Dr. Johnson to Dr. 
Adams was towards the middle of November, 1 784. It is not unlikely 
however that this letter was written after his previous visit, and should 
follow the Letter of July 11, ante^ p. 410. 

1039. 

0.^ To THE Reverend Dr. Vyse ', in Lambeth. 

I am desirous to know whether Charles Scrimshaw, of 



places. William Hutton, the book- 
seller and antiquary, not three weeks 
later took the same road firom Bir- 
mingham to London. He started at 
seven o'clock on the night of the 
first of December, and reached his 
journey's end at two in the afternoon 
of the following day. He was drawn, 
he says, by thirty-six horses, so that 
there must have been nine changes in 
the 120 miles. He ^-as the only 
passenger, and as the cold ^-as \'ery 
severe the guard asked permission to 
ride inside. ' He was armed w-nth a 
brace of pistols and a blunderbuss, 
and he dwelt largely on his own 



courage ; said that he could protect 
a coach when others could not ; had 
saved his own when another was 
robbed ; had often dri\-en the ix>gues 
to a distance, now and then sent one 
to the shades.' YivXlGvCs Jourmy to 
London, ed. 181 8, p. 6. If Johnson 
went by the same coach to London 
all this talk was no doubt poured 
into the ears of black Frank as he sat 
outside. 

' First published in Malone's Bos- 

well, 

M alone states : — * In conformity to 
the wish expressed in the preceding 
letter, an inquiry was made ; but no 

Woodsease 



▲eUt. 76.] 



7(? John Nichols, 



431 



Woodsease (I think), in your father s neighbourhood, be now 
living ; what is his condition and where he may be found. If 
you can conveniently make any inquiry about him, and can do 
it without delay, it will be an act of great kindness to me, he being 
very nearly related to me. I beg [you] to pardon this trouble. 

I am. Sir, 

Your most humble servant, 

Bolt-court, Fleet-street, Nov. 29, 1784. Sam : JOHNSON. 

1040. 

To Richard Green. 
[London], December 2, 1784. Published in the Life^ iv. 393. 

1041. 

To Mrs. Porter. 
[London], December 2, 1784. Published in the Life^ iv. 394. 

1042. 

To John Nichols'. 
The late learned Mr. Swinton*, having one day remarked 



descendants of Charles Scrimshaw or 
of his sisters were discovered to be 
living. Dr. Vyse informs me, that 
Dr. Johnson told him, " he was dis- 
appointed in the inquiries he had 
made after his relations.*' There is 
therefore no ground whatsoever for 
supposing that he was unmindful of 
them, or neglected them.' 

Hawkins says that Johnson had 
executed a will so far as to secure an 
annuity for his servant, Frank Barber. 
* I found,' writes Hawkins, ' that the 
residue of his estate would be some- 
thing considerable, and I told him 
that he would do well to bequeath it 
to his relations. His answer was, 
'M care not what becomes of the 
residue."' Hawkins's Johnson^ p. 
576. See also 1^., p. 599. 

' First published in Malone's Bos- 
welL 

In the Register of Books in the 
Gentlemiiffs Magasine {or ]}x\y, 1740^ 



p. 360, is * An Universal History from 
the earlier Account of Time to the 
present. In five volumes in folio. 
Price ;^io lor. 6d* In the Register 
of Books for March, 1749, P* I44) is 
* Universal History in 8vo., vol. 20, 
and last. Price 5^. in boards.' 

Gibbon, writing of his youth, 
says : — ' My indiscriminate appetite 
[in reading] subsided by degrees in 
the historic line ; and since philo- 
sophy has exploded all innate ideas 
and natural propensities, I must 
ascribe this choice to the assiduous 
perusal of the Universal History 
as the octavo volumes successively 
appeared. This unequal work, and 
a treatise of Heame, the Ductor 
historicuSy referred and introduced 
me to the Greek and Roman histo- 
rians, to as many at least as were 
accessible to an English reader.' Gib- 
bon's Misc. IVorkSy i. 41. 

* Thomas Warton in his account 

that 



-*■ 




-VTMiKT Hirhfiri, sc: die rcmirac ir 

ii . ipiiir tliuj, I now 
^ ^ if «x 



■e us lut! 





^njaifg^ir*' 



mini 






iA 



3K3iiiiinsBx&. 



f*I 



T!ie EacTJ if ±e O 

XnsaL Xjescsl snr 



Ji l l i.Hims 



Lwertacxii rxL rte^gcciingcf 



The C'-arncciCT 

> ^ d^a*.*- .# »» MAW ^V * 



rd X sxsiZ ^art ct 



▼ 3zzxniBK2sae^ kit 



.zxi'-rtT . chu-fr i^ >Lr Sbciio 



'^cn-icc'i rait j:: Cif:t-i in rr^ 



: — ' A v-cr rua •irrr t 



.Vxx. ifTiKTrir-ii- cot diT ai 



I »ii vir-ri^f' --.^ Mr. SmzzzxL ±e 
ci-A^Uir. cf th« x'^^^L 3£Z/i 2i^c 2. £re- 

af./i a>/vtr;% pr^:ir,hftd the axidccma- 
tk>r*-'«rrr.on or* repectiaot, brfoTe 
t>*e r//r»yi<:?i, on the preowiing day, 
^mxAaj \ aiyi th;«it ic the ciose he 
1/*M hu aa/iieiy^, th^t h^ sb<-xJd gi^^e 
xSt^u the r*rrr.airidf:T of what he had to 
na/ i/xi X\\»% %ub;^xt, the next Lord's 
\yA^. (;p^/fi which, one of our com- 
f;ariy, a UfKUtr r/f I^ivinity, and a 
plain maU«r-r/f'fact rnaOf by way of 




rhapri cf Wadham CoSege. 
tTs's Buf^. Du-t^ XTTT, 70. 
' • A r,anielr!S.s doctor { Uttrrirul 
HisisTry, voL X3u octavo edition^ has 
ionnaUy (sUwumstnUeJ tbe truth of 
Chhstianhy by the mdependence of 
the Arabs.' Decluu mnd Fall vf 
the Reman Empire^ cd. 1S07, ix. 
202, n, 21. 

' George Sale, tbe translator of the 
Koran. 

Histor}- 



Aetat. 76.] To Mts. Strakatt. 433 

History of the Jews, Gauls, and Spaniards ; by Mr. Psalmanazar '. 
Xenophon's Retreat ; by the same. 

History of the Persians and the Constantinopolitan Empire ; by Dr. 
Campbell. 

History of the Romans ; by Mr. Bower. 

1043. 

(Two undated Letters.) 

To Mrs. Strahan. 

In Messrs. Sotheby and Co.'s Auction Catalogue of August 21, 1872, 

Lot 113 is a Letter of Johnson to Mrs. Strahan. *Sept. 20. Postponing 

an invitation, " I had forgotten that I had myself invited a friend to 

dine with." &c.' 

To . 

In the Catalogue of the same firm of May 10, 1875, Lot 104 is a 
Letter of Johnson, * one page quarto, dated Nov. 29, respecting a proof 
sheet in which he wished to alter one word only.' It was sold for 

Bolt Court, December 13, 1784. 

In Messrs. Puttick and Simpson's Auction Catalogue of July 8, 1859, 
Lot 225 is *an autograph of Johnson to a receipt for £75, being one 
quarter's pension, Dec. 13, 1784.' If the date is correctly given we 
have here in all likelihood the last words written by Johnson, for about 
seven o'clock in the evening of that day he died. 

* He died,' writes J. T. Smith, * in the back-room of the first floor of 
his house in Bolt Court, of which room I made a drawing, just before 
Mr. Bensley the printer pulled that part of the house down, to make 
way for a staircase. There is not a vestige of the original house now 
remaining.' NoUekens and his Times^ ed. 1828, i. 132. 

In yiuu2cy'^ /ohnsoniana^ ed. 1836, p. 82, is a print from a sketch by 
Smith of * Dr. Johnson's sitting-room in Bolt Court' It is possible that 
in his last illness his bed was moved into this room. 

William Hutton, who left London for Birmingham on the night of 
December 1 2, describes how * our bill of lading being completed we 
began to roll over one-hundred-and-twenty miles of snow without any 
noise but that of the wheels*.' As the coach went silently on through a 
wintry world Johnson's spirit passed away. 

Among the manuscripts of the British Museum are the following 
documents relating to the funeral : — 

' See Life^ iii. 443. 

' W. Hutton's Journey to London^ ed. 181 8, p. 133. 
VOL. II. F f Sir 



434 



Documents relating 



[AJ>.1781 



I. 

* Sir, — The Executors of the late Dr. Samuel Johnson request the 
favor of your attendance on Monday next, the 20th of December inst, 
at 10 o'clock in the forenoon, at the Doctor's late Dwelling-house in Bolt 
Court, Fleet Street, to accompany the corpse from thence to West- 
minster Abbey. 

1 8th December, 1784*.' 

II. 
List of those present at the Funeral'* : — 



Dr. Bumey. 

Sir J. Hawkins. 

Sir J. Reynolds. 

Dr. Scott. i. 

Sir J. Banks. 

Colman. 

Dr. Broklesbury [Brocklesby.] 

Hoole. ii. 

Nicholk. [Nichols.] 

Seward. 

Frank [Francis Barber.] 

Lowe. iii. 

I)u Moulins [Desmouh'ns.] 

Burke. 

Burke, j*". 

Wyndham. 

Holder. 

Cooke. 

G. Strahan. 

Rev. Mr. Butt. 

Paradise. 

Langton. 

Steevens. 



iv. [Windham.] 



V. 



Pall 



Sir J. Banks. 
Sir C. Bunbury. 
£. Burke. 



Sastres. vi. 
Dr. Wright. 
Ryland. 
Malone. 

Dr. Farmer. vii. 
Gen. Paoli. 
Horsley. 
Count Zenobia. 

Sir Charles Bunbury. viii. 

Cruickshank [Cruikshank]. 
Medcalf [Metcalfe.] 
Dr. Butter. ix. 
Mr. Nicol. 
Rev. S. Hoole. 
Mr. Mickle. 

C. B. [? Charles Burney.J xi. 
Mr. Henderson. 
Rev. Mr. East. 
Rev. Mr. Shanvelle. [?] 
Mr. Sharp. xii. 
Fifteen Gentlemen. 
Coaches [? Fifteen Gentlemen's 
coaches.] 

Bearers : — 

W. Wyndham [Windham.] 

Langton. 

G. Colman. 



' Nichols MSS. The card no 
doubt was the one sent to John 



Nichols, the editor of the Gen/ lemons 
Magazine, ' Add. MSS. 33,498. 

Extract 



Aeut. 76.] to Dr. Johnsons Funeral. 435 

* Extract from St. James' Chronicle the day after Johnson's funeral' : — 

" The Procession consisted of a Hearse and six, with the corpse and 

twelve mourning coaches and four. It set out from Bolt Court a few 

minutes after twelve o'clock, followed by several gentlemen's carriages. 

At one o'clock the corpse arrived at the Abbey." ' 

Among all the mourners there was only one man of hereditary title — 
Sir Charles Bunbury. * The great lords and great ladies who did not 
love to have their mouths stopped" neglected him to the last. Far 
different had been the scene at Garrick's funeral. 

^ Through weeping London's crowded streets. 

As Garrick's funeral passed, 
Contending wits and nobles strove, 

Who should forsake him last ^' 

But he who was followed to his last resting-place by Reynolds and 
Burke did not go unhonoured to his grave. 

' Add. MSS. 33498. ' Life, iv. 116. 

^ Bishop George Home's Essays and Thoughts, ed. 1808, p. 283. 



F f 2 



APPENDIX A. 

{Page 179.) 

To the kindness of Sir E. H. Bunbury, of Barton Hall, Bury St 
Edmunds, I owe the following copy of a document in his p>ossession 
endorsed by Sir H. E. Bunbury who died in i860 : — 

* Autograph of Dr. Samuel Johnson. Draft of a Petition sketched at 
the desire of my Grandmother for a poor woman at Plymouth.' 

To THE Kings most Excellent Majesty the Humble Petition 
of Hunt. 

Your Majestys Petitioner begs leave with all humility to inform you that 
she is the Widow of Edward Hunt of your Majestys yard Plymouth who 
died nineteen years ago, and left her with eight young children whom she 
has maintained and educated. 

That being now advanced in years, she has been for some time supported 
by her son Joseph Hunt late Captain of your Majestys ship Unicom. 

That her son was killed January the eighth in an Engag-ement with the 
Vestal a noted Frigate of superior force, which he live [sic] to take and then 
expired, leaving his Mother without any provision for her declining years. 

She therefore humbly applies herself to the known goodness of your 
Majesty, hoping for such relief of her distress as to your Majesty shall seem 
proper. 



APPENDIX B. 

{Page 261.) 

Dr. William Hunter died on March 30 of the following year. Bos- 
well writing of that day says : — 

* I found him at home in the evening, and had the pleasure to meet with 
Dr. Brocklesby, whose reading, and knowledge of life, and good spirits, 
supply him with a never-failing source of conversation. He mentioned 
a respectable gentleman, who became extremely penurious near the close of 
his Hfe. Johnson said there must have been a degree of madness about him. 
" Not at all, Sir, (said Dr. Brocklesby,) his judgement was entire." Unluckily, 

however, 



Appendix B. 437 



however, he mentioned that although he had a fortune of twenty-seven 
thousand pounds, he denied himself many comforts, from an apprehension 
that he could not afford them. " Nay, Sir, (cried Johnson,) when the judge- 
ment is so disturbed that a man cannot count, that is pretty well" ' Lif^^ 
iv. 176. 

The following curious manuscript note in my possession, which is, 
no doubt, Dr. Brocklesby's record of the conversation of this evening, 
shows that the respectable but penurious gentleman was the famous 
physician, William Hunter. 

'At Dr. Johnson's, with J. Boswell, Esq., 30th March, 1783, when Dr. 
Hunter dyed. 

* S. J. bom in 1709, his mother in 1665 the daughter of a little Wan^'ick- 
shire Gent. [?J the oldest people in her childhood had seldom learnt to read*. 
— Dr. Hunter fell a sacrifice to his last Lecture— spent ;f 100,000 on his 
Collection, nothing on Himself— advised by S. J. to leave it to Glasgow where 
he was bom and bred — proposed to have built his Anatomy of an Elephant 
in the Centre of his Museum which would have fixed the place unalterably. 
—Opiate never destructive of S. J's. Readiness in Conversation this very 
circumstance I have observed— ought to beware from Hunter's Death of 
trifling with his Gout as that Author's [1^] ended by pertinaciously giving his 
last Lecture in a paroxysm of that Disease. 

' S. J. maintained against Boswell that knowledge should be universally 
taught, because no man was sorry that he had acquired knowledge, or wished 
to unbare [?] the Genius given Him and the Ground must be always tilled, 
and the Conveniencies of Life be manufactured, but it was not fair to restrict 
any Sett of Men to tilling the Ground and making Clothes &c. — Genius 
should have a fair Chance whenever it was bom— it was not bom Every Day 
— yet Solomon says "he that encreaseth Knowledge encreaseth Sorrow,** 
and Johnson has put many Syllables of Sadness together in a like strain 
formerly. 

* 'Only 3 or 4 public Schools before Ed. 6 and Eliz. — no free Schools royally 
endowed or chartered afterwards— Only i Bp. of Westminster and he spent the 
Kcvennes — Fakenham, Abbot of Westm' appointed afterwards by Q. Mary preached 
her funeral Sermon and sat in the first parls. of Elizabeth—another preacher of Mary's 
funeral Sermon comforted his audience on the virtues of her Successor by observing 
that " a living dog was better than a dead Lion.' 



n » 



Dr. Brocklesby met Lord Mansfield one night at supper. * They inter- 
changed some stories a little trenching on decorum. It so happened that 
the Doctor had to appear next morning before Lord Mansfield in the witness 
box ; when, on the strength of last night's doings, the witness nodded with 
offensive familiarity to the Chief Justice as to a boon companion. His Lord- 
ship, taking no notice of his salutation, but writing down his evidence, when 
he came to summing it up to the jury, thus proceeded : — " The next witness 
is one Rocklesby or Brocklesby, Brocklesby or Roddesby, — I am not sure 
which,— and first, he swears that he is a Physician.'*' Campbell's L4ves of 
the Chief Justices^ ed. 1849, "• 57o« 

APPENDIX 



438 Appendix C. 



APPENDIX C 

{Page 413.) 

The following anecdotes I owe to the kindness of Mr. Falconer 
Madan, Fellow of Brasenose College and Sub-Librarian of the Bodleian, 
who found them in Dr. Philip Bliss's manuscript note book preserved 
in that Library ; Vol. X, MS. Eng. Misc. e. 8. p. 4. 

* Anecdotes of Samuel Johnson never published. 

I. 

* When engaged on some literary research the Dr. was very anxious to 
procure some information relative to one of the fathers, and failing himself, 
commissioned his friend Nicol, the King's bookseller, to continue the enquiry, 
and if possible provide him with the account of which he stood in need. 
Meeting George Nicol shortly after in a party at dinner, where was some 
man of Pembroke (his own college) no great favourite with Johnson, the Dr. 
cried out, " Well, Sir,** to Nicol, " and what success have you had in your 
searches after Petrus de Maximis?" "None, Dr.," said Nicol, "I have 
hunted high and low, looked in every book I can find, and can make nothing 
of it." " Petrus Maximus ! " said the Pembroke divine, " I never heard <rf 
him before." " I dare say not, Sir," said Johnson with his accustomed rough- 
ness ; " his name is not on your college buttery book.'* * 

Mr. G. K. Fortescue, the Superintendent of the Reading Room of 
the British Museum, in reply to my inquiry about Petrus de Maximis 
has sent me the following note : — 

* The only person I can find in the whole range of literature named Peter 
de Maximis (I suppose the name really is Pietro dei Massimi; a great Roman 
family) is one of two brothers De Maximis, who gave a home to the printers 
Sweynheym and Pannartz in Rome in 1467.' 

Mr. Fortescue sends me an extract from Panzer's Annales Typog.. 
Norimb., 1794, ii. 413, in which are given the following verses in an 
edition of Strabo printed in 1469 : — 

' Aspicis illustris lector quicunque libellos 
Si cupis artificum nomina nosse : lege &c. 

Conrardus suueynheym : Amoldus pannartzque magistri 
Rome impresserunt talia multa simul. 

Petrus cum fratre Francisco maximus ambo 
Huic operi aptatam contribuere domum.* 

Johnson 



Appendix D, 439 



II. 

'Johnson was famous for an assertion that no man ever laboured for 
labour's sake, but that all, whatever were their pursuits, followed them from 
motives of interest, however they might disguise the real end from themselves 
or others. Sir Joshua Reynolds knowing that this was a favourite subject, 
and much wishing to draw the Dr. out before a large party of ladies, com- 
menced his address to him with : — " Well, Dr., I have been the whole day 
engaged on a picture which has delighted me ; I never laboured so long with 
so great and immingled pleasure." " I beg your pardon. Sir,*' retorted 
Johnson ; " your pleasure was not derived from your labour, but from 
ihe reward you expect to derive from it. It was your interest made you 
pleased with your occupation,*' — and a great deal more to the same effect, 
completely falling into Sir Joshua's scheme, and amusing the whole company 
with his declamation. At last turning to the ladies he expressed himself 
fearful they must have been tired by so long a discourse on so dry a subject, 
but added he, '* Ladies, 1 can at once illustrate all I have been saying to Sir 
Joshua, and render my meaning perfectly intelligible to you, by remarking 
that when Leander swam the Hellespont he did not do so from a love of 
swimming." ' 

For labouring for labour's sake, see the Lifiy ii. 98 ; iii. 19 ; iv. 219. South 
had said : — * Men do not use to run, only that they may run, but that they 
may obtain ; labour itself being certainly one of the worst rewards ot 
a man's pains.* — SoUTH's Sermons, cd, 1823, iii. 137. Burke, in his Essay 
on the Sublime and Beautiful, part iv. sect. 6, maintains that ' Providence has 
so ordered it that a state of rest and inaction, however it may flatter our 
indolence, should be productive of many inconveniencies ; that it should 
generate such disorders as may force us to have recourse to some labour, as 
a thing absolutely requisite to make us pass our lives with tolerable satisfac- 
tion.' In the next section he describes 'common labour' as 'a mode of 
pain.' 



APPENDIX D. 

(^Page 420.) 

From the Diary of the Right Hon. William Windham (p. 17) I have 
selected the following notes among those which he made of Dr. Johnson's 
conversation at Ashbourne at the end of August 1 784. 

The principle of all amusements is to beguile time and fill the interval 
between active thought and perfect vacuity. 

The 



440 Appefidix D. 



The source of every thing, in or out of nature, that can serve the pur- 
pose of poetry, is to be found in Homer ; — every species of distress, every 
modification of heroic character, battles, storms, ghosts, incantations, &c 
Dr. Johnson said he had never read through the Odyssey completely in the 
original. 

Anecdote of his first declamation at College ; that having n^lected 
to write it till the morning of his being to repeat it, and having^ only one copy, 
he got part of it by heart, while he was walking into the Hall, and the rest he 
supplied as well as he could extempore. 

Description of himself as very idle and neglectful of his studies. 

His opinion, that I could not name above five of my college acquaintances 
who read Latin with sufficient ease to make it pleasurable ; the difficulty of 
the language overpowers the desire to read the author ; that he read Latin 
with as much ease when he went to college as at present. Attention to the 
language overpowers the regard to the matter ; rather not know the contents 
than dig them out of Latin. 

That a year or two elapsed between his quitting school and going to 
College. 

Conunended Ovid's description of the death of Hercules — doubted 
whether Virgil would not have loaded the description with too many fine 
words ; that Virgil would sometimes dare verba. 

Opinion that there were three ways in which writing may be unnatural ; by 
being bombastic and above nature, affected and beside it, fringing every event 
with ornaments which nature did not afford, or weak and below nature. That 
neither of the first would please long. That the third might indeed please a 
good while, or at least many ; because imbecility, and consequently a love of 
imbecility, might be found in many. 

Baretti had told him of some Italian author, who said that a good work 
must be that with which the vulgar were pleased, and of which the learned 
could tell why it pleased — that it must be able to employ the learned, and 
detain the idle. Chevy Chase pleased the vulgar, but did not satisfy the 
learned ; it did not fill a mind capable of thinking strongly. The merit of 
Shakspeare was such as the ignorant could take in, and the learned add 
nothing to. 

TtpTTofifvos T€ voov 6 nXfiova (ldo>s * — the offer of the Syren to Ulysses. 
Any man will preserve his respect who can promise this to another ; applied 
to a college tutor. 

Vast change of the Latin language from the time of Lucretius to Virgil ; 
greater than known in any other, even the French. 

Suspicion that the old grammarians have given us from an analogy more 
modifications of tenses than were ever used. Remember but one instance of 
second future, viz. €vp<a in Josephus ; and three of the optative, if I recollect, 
of the preterite and middle, one of them in Hesiod. 

Great advantage of a University, that a person lives in a place where his 
reputation depends on his learning. 

Argument about that feel which persons on great heights suppose them- 
selves to have of a wish to throw themselves down. 

' 'AAA' Off TtfAf/oifjiiVos vurai Kat wXtiova fibws. — Odyssey^ XII. lS8. 

The 



Appendix D. 441 



The idea of delitescence one of those that please the mind in a hilly 
country. Torpescence^ much of the faculties of the mind lost in them. 

Qui slupei in statuis \ applied to Joseph Warton's admiration of fine 
passages. His taste is amazement ^ 

The pretensions of the English to the reputation of writing Latin founded 
not so much on the specimens in that way which they have produced, as on 
the quantity of talent diffused through the country. 

Erasmus appears to be totally ignorant of science and natural knowledge. 
But one Italian writer is mentioned in Erasmus. 

Opinion about the effect of turnpike roads. Every place communicating 
with every other. Before, there were cheap places and dear places. Now 
all refuges destroyed for elegant or genteel poverty. Want of such a last 
hope to support men in their struggle through life, however seldom it might 
be resorted to. Disunion of families by furnishing a market to each man's 
abilities, and destroying the dependence of one man on another. 

September ist. — Left Ashbourne at half-past one, having gone with Dr. 
Johnson, in the morning, to prayers. Regretted, upon reflection, that I had 
not staid another day. 

* * Qui stopet in titnlis ct imaginibns.* Mr. Croker prints * Qui stttpit^ in 

' And rapt, with awe-struck admira- Statins^ 

tion gaze, ' In the text amusemetU. I have fol- 

When the long race its images dis- lowed Mr. Croker*s reading. 



plays.* Francis. HoR.Ai/.vi. 17. 



\ 



i 



■ in 

II- 






■'II 



1 



I 



!|i 



INDEX. 



■♦♦- 



A. 

Abbess, Mrs., ii. 158. 
Aberbrothick, i. 232. 
Aberdeen, i. 233, 301 n, 
Abershaw, Louis Jeremiah, ii. 30 n, 
Abington, Mrs., i. 316. 
Accommodation, i. 264 n. ; ii. 367 »., 

394- 
Adair, James, i. 321. 

Adam, the brothers, i. 8 n. 

Adams, Rev. William, D.D., ii. 39, 227, 
258-9, 400, 430 ; Johnson's letters, i. 
402 ; ii. 409. 

Adams, Miss, ii. 259 if., 260, 410. 

Adden broke, Dean, i. 185, 301 n, 

Addison, Joseph, Li/e, iL 132, 138 ; in- 
fluence of the spectator^ ii. 352 n,\ 
quoted, i. 175. 207 «., 273 «.. 277 «., 
403 n. ; ii. 149, 321 «., 329, 352 «. 

Adey, Mrs., i. 139; ii. 17, 87. 

Adey, Miss, i. 331 ; ii. 382. 

Adventurer^ i. 36. 

Advice, ii. 162. 

Agnes, playing, ii. 51. 

Air, new kinds of, ii. 333, 342, 362. 

Airy, ii. 116 if., 361 n. 

Akenside, Mark, M.D., ii. 21, 198. 

Akerman, — , ii. 173 n. 

Albemarle, Lady, ii. 173 it. 

Ale, price of, i. 194. 

Allen, Edmund, i. 73 if., 75 if., 121 ; iL 
61, 226, 301, 332, 392, 395, 417-9; 
Johnson's letter, ii. 239. 

Allen, Mrs., ii. 295, 309. 

Almanacs, ii. 76 n. 

Alnwick, i. 228. 

Althorpe, Viscount, ii. iii i». 

America, Conciliatory Propositions, i. 
311 If.; fierceness,!. 318; Johnson's 
violence, i. 360; lost to England, ii. 
375 ; ' shining talents ' on the side of 
the Colonies, i. 390 i».; war — Cop's 



Hill, i. 161 If. ; Bunker's Hill.i. 318 if. ; 
332 »•» 3^ »• ; Lexington, i. 325 if. ; 
country to be wasted, i. 360 ; expenses, 
i. 386 If. ; effects of war, see under 
England; Wesley's Calm Address, 

»• 373- 
Amusements, ii. 25 if., 439. 

Amusing, i. 283 n. 

Andrews, Dr. Francis, i. 123. 

Anoch, i. 243, 246. 

Anspach, Margrave of, ii. 143 //. 

Apperley, — , Johnson's letter, i. 135. 

Appetite, ii. 391. 

Approbation, ii. 369. 

Archaological Dictionary, ii. 224. 

Archbishop of St. Andrews, ii. 408. 

Archbishop of York, i. 138 i».. 313, 
327. See also under Markham, Dr. 
William. 

Argyle, John, fifth Duke of, i. 284-5 J 
ii. 40, 176. 

Aristotle, quoted, ii. 67. 

Arithmetic, ii. 321, 361. 

Arkwright, Sir Richard, i. 6 if. 

Ascham, Roger, i. 225. 

Ashe, Miss, i. 211 if. 

Aspasia, ii. 390 n, 

Aston, Elizabeth, house, i. 160 if. ; Lives 
tfthe Poets partly written in it, ii. 46 
If.; ill, ii. ao, 26, 49, 54, 60, 97, 229, 
331-3; Johnson's letters, i. 131, 155, 
368; ii. 2, 3, 30, 58, 82, 85, 90, 114, 
1 19, 247-8, 382,429; —regard for her, 
ii. 17, 227; mentioned, i. 173, 201, 310, 

339, 335» 381 ; ii. 93, 185, 240, 3i4- 
Aston, Sir Thomas, Bart, i. 16 if. 
Aston, — , i. 16, 29. 
At the close, ii. 374. 
Atlantic, L 146 n. 
Attend, i. 404 if. 
Auchinleck, Lord, i. 244 if., 292 if., 320 

H. ; ii. 271. 
Auchinleck Place, i. 287, 292. 



444 



Index to 



Austin, Mary Ann. Beauolerk, Tophaxn. 



Austin, Mary Ann, ii. 334 n. 
Authors, attacks on them, i. 315; ii. 

148 ; early pieces, ii. 7 ; schemes, i. 74 ; 

sought Johnson's aid, ii. 313 n. ; third 

nights, ii. 25a. 
Aylesbury, Lady, ii. 166 n, 

B. 

Bacon, Francis, quoted, i. 252 n.\ ii. 

"5 «•» 331 »• 
Bagot, Sir Walter, i. 137. 

Bagshavv, Rev. Mr, ii. 411. 

Baillet, Adrien, i. 146. 

Baillib, Dr., ii. 339^- 

Baines, Edward, i. 6 w. 

Baker, Thomas, ii. 13. 

Ballard, — , i. 40. 

Balloons, ii. 333, 342, 347-8» 354 «•» 

3651 37a» 419* 427- 
Banks, Sir Joseph, i. 233, 293 ; ii. 36.; «., 

434. 
Bantlings i. 1 78 n. 

Barbauld, Mrs., ii. 109 «., 354 n. 

Barber, Francis, service with Johnson, 
i. 66 «. ; wants to read Evelina^ »!• 77 ; 
child bom to him, 239 ; Johnson's 
letter, 331 ; — fnneral, 434; mentioned, 
i- 99» 173; "• i» 28, 30, 227, 249«., 
381 n. 

Barber, Mrs., ii. 239. 

Barclays, Quakers and brewers, ii. 
216 ;x., 222. 

Bardsky Island, i. 290. 

Baretti, Joseph, blessings of being rich, 
ii. 164 n. ; Boswell described, i. 3 1 7 w. ; 
ii. 39 n. ; Bruce the traveller, i. 313 «. ; 
Carmen Seculare^ ii. 80, 87 ; described, 
i- 351 «•; Footcana^ ii. 55 n.\ Gordon 
riots, ii. 169 «, ; Introduction to Lan- 
guages, i. 324 w. ; Italian local histories, 
i. 145 n.\ Italian author quoted, ii. 
440 ; Johnson's bigotry, ii. 167 «. ; — 
dinner-table, ii. 125 «. ; — French, i. 
324 n. ; ii. 179 ;i. ; — as an Inquisitor, 
i. 319 «. ; — introduced to the Cot- 
tcrells, i. 44 n. ; — mention of him in 
the Letters, i. 350, 354-5 ; — musings, 
i. 359 ^ -> 388 «. ; ii. 32 «. ; — pay- 
ments, i. 79 n.\ — ' true- bom English- 
man,* i. 238 «. ; Journey, i. 165; ii. 
329 //. ; Piozzi attacked, ii. 34 ;;., 



239 n. ; * plagiie and darling,' i. 326; 
quits Streatham, i. 403 n. ; RasseUs, I 
324 n.\ reviewed, L 403 ; Smolktt 
described, i. 286 ^f. ; teacher of Italian, 
i. 294 n, ; Thrale's sons, death oC L 
381 «., 383 «., 384 If., 386 «,, 388 «.; 
Thrale, Mrs., treatment of her children, 
i. 205, 294 «.. 338 «., 350 If. ; —ac- 
cused of poisoning^ them, i. 381 ».; — 
of forging a letter, ii. 405 «. ; — sbe 
accuses him, ii. 40S n. ; — her jealousy, 
i. 344 «. ; — Jewish notions, il 57 n,\ 
— wicked honse, ii. 351 ; Trombt 
Marino man, ii. 351 ». ; mentioned, L 
163 «., 347* 393 ; i>. 183 #f., 318 n. 

Barker, Dr. Edmund, ii. 364 n. 

Barker, — , i. 70. 

Barnard, Sir Frederick Augusta, John- 
son's letter, i. 143. 

Barnard. Rev. Dr. (Dean of Deny), i 
362 n, 

Barnard, Rev. Dr. (Provost of Eton), ii 
136-7, 164 «. 

Barret, William, i. 400, 404. 

Barrington, Admiral, ii. 351 n. 

Barry, Dr. (Sir Edward Barry, Bart':, 
ii. 369. 

Barry, James, iu 293, 305. 

Barwell, — , i. 410 n, 

Baskerville, John. i. 42. 

Baskett, Mark, i. 115 n. 

Bate, James, i. 84 n. 

Bates, — , i. 206 n, 

Bath, i. 391 ; ii. 146, 175-6, 404 m, 

Bath, Earl of, i. 93 n, 

Bathurst, Dr. Richard, i. 32 ; ii. 209 «., 
3641*. 

Beatniffe, Richard, Johnson's letter ii. 

24.^ 
Beatoun, Cardinal, i. 231. 

Beattie, Dr. James, Highland scenery, 
i. 251 «. ; pension, 287; lodged it 
Lambeth, 321 «.; Goldsmith's epitaph, 
407 n. ; Scotticisms ^ ii. 1 20 n.\ John- 
son hated by Monboddo, 1 50 «. • 

appetite, 389 n, 

Beauclerk, Lady Diana, i. 49 «. 

Beauclerk, Topham, Johnson and the 
orange-peel, i. 49 n. ; story about 
Johnson, ii. 44 «. ; ill, 54; death, 
209 n. 



Letters of Dr. Johnson. 



445 



' Beauties of Johnson.' Boswell, James. 



Beauties of Johnson, ii. 254. 

Beau VOIR, Rev. Dr. Osmund, ii. 251 n. 

Beddoes, Dr., ii. 77 n, 

Bedford, fourth Duke of, i. 7 «., 417. 

Bedrider, ii. 48. 

Beighton, — , i. 1 17 «. 

Belcher, William, i. 137 n. 

Belin de Ballu, ii. 410 n. 

Bell, Rev. Dr., i. 118; ii. 631*., 146, 371. 

Bembo, ii. 417. 

Bembridge, — , ii. 298 n, 

Benedictines, i. 401-2 ; ii. 410. 

Bensley, Thomas, ii. 433. 

Bentham, Jeremy, balloons, ii. 420 n, ; 
Elphinston's house, i. 17 n. ; Johnson's 
City Club, ii. 363 n. ; Mansfield's 
MSS.. ii. 169 n.\ Markham, Arch- 
bishop, ii. 150 ». ; 'Omniscient Jack- 
son,' ii. 349 n. ; Oxford University elec- 
tion, i. 138 «.; Queen's College, i. 114 
n. ; — Dr. Fothergill, i. 324 n.\ — 
monotonous life, i. 330 n, 

Bentley, Rev. Richard, D.D., ii. 276 n. 

Bkntley, Rev. Richard, D.D. (the 
nephew), i. 190. 

Berkeley, fourth Earl of, ii. 143 n. 

Berkeley of Stratton, Lord, ii. 169 n. 

Berry, — , ii. 396 n, 

Besselsleigh, ii. 260 n. 

Bewly, William, ii. 222 n, 

Bible, early editions, i. 147. 

Biggins, —, ii. 419 n. 

Bingham, Hon. Miss. See Spencer, 
Countess. 

Biographia Britannica, ii. 40. 

Birch, Rev. Thomas, D.D., account of 
him, i. 53 n, ; Johnson's letters, i. 30, 
3a, a.*). 44. 53» 62, 64, 

Birmingham, Johnson's residence there, 
i. 69 ; ii. 289 M. ; seat of the mechanic 
arts, ii. 53; boobies, ib. n. See also 
under Johnson. 

Bishops, ii. 149 it. 

Black, Joseph, ii. 362 n. 

Black dog, ii 73. 

Blacklock, Dr. Thomas, i. 229. 

Blackmore, Sir Richard, ii. 159, 185, 
198, 275 ». 

Blackstone, Sir William, Lectures on 
Law, i. 1 14 If. ; Principal of New Inn 
Hall, 132 If. ; University election of 



1768, 138 If. ; Old Bailey Sessions, ii. 
65 It. ; law about married women, 218 
If. ; law of settlement, 297 it. 

Blackwood, Adam, ii. 408 if. 

Blair, Rev. Dr. Hugh, i. 404 if. 

Blantire, Lord, ii. 169 it. 

Bleeding, ii. 198, 253, 401. 

Bliss, Dr. Philip, ii. 438. 

Blount, Sir Thomas Pope, i. 32. 

Blue-Stocking Club, ii. 136 n., 151 n. 

BODENS, George, ii. 164 if. 

Booth BY, Sir Brooke, Bart., i. 45 if. 

BooTHBY, Hill, Johnson's letters, i. 45- 
5a, 64. 

BosviLLE, Godfrey, ii. 16 it. 

Boswell, James, Ashbourne, visits, ii. 
^5 «M 3i> 36, 38-9, 43 ; Baltic expe- 
dition, ii. 30; 'bends a keen eye on 
vacancy,* i. 279 it. ; bet with Lady D. 
Beauclerk, i. 49 it. ; bodily activity, i. 
233 ; * Bos,' i. 276 ; * Branghton, a,' ii. 
137 If . ; Brocklesby and Hunter, ii. 436 ; 
brother David, ii. 182 n, ; Gator's guest, 
ii. 31 2 It. ; Cecilia, ii. 354 if ; chambers 
in the Temple, i. 90 if. ; Chester, visits, 
ii. 116 If. ; City Club, ii. 212 ». ; clan, 
his, ii. 16; debts, iL 271 ; described by 
Baretti, i. 317 n,\ ii. 39 if.; Doxy, 
Miss, iu 129 If. ; equitation, ii. 178 if. ; 
Essex Head Club, ii. 396 if.; exe- 
cution, present at an, ii. 402 if. ; father, 
i. 292, 320 It. ; ii. 271 ; fees, i. 317 if., 
320 ; gentlemen by birth, ii. 160 n, ; 
hereditary possessions, ii. 370 if.; house, 
i. 229 ; Johnson allots him a room, i. 
317 n, ; ii. 42 if. ; — appetite, ii. 389 n. ; 

— associates, ii. 414 if. ; — attacks him, 
ii. 65 If. ; — , caricature of, ii. 295 if. ; 

— describes him, i. 223 ; — and Gar- 
rick, i. 54 If. ; — and Hawkins, ii. 371 
If. ; — letter, i. 299 ; — letters to Miss 
Bumey, ii. 354 if. ; — love of cold air, 
ii. 38 5 If. ; — monument, ii. 33 if. ; 
— , pamphlet sent to, ii. 278 if. ; — 
pleasure in his company, L 291 ; ii. 33, 
39» 403 J — relief from dropsy, ii. 380 
If. ; — society, i. 316 ; — , ' spy * on, i. 
330; —, visits (1779)1 "• 103-5; — 
and Wilkes, ii. 295 it. ; Journal, i. 271, 

320, 330f 355» 392 «• ; "• 43* «03 «•» 
104 If., 396 If . ; • led by a bear/ ii. 43 



446 



Index to 



BoBwell, James. Bumet, Gilbert. 



M. ; Lichfield, visits, i. 380; ii. 119; 
— theatre, i. 385 i». ; Literary Club, i. 
215; ii. 65 »., 402 n.\ Lives of the 
FoetSy ii. 197 w., 208 ; married, i. 331 ; 
Mickle. letter to, i. 422 ; omissions in 
the Lifej i. 56 n.\ ii. 40 «., 137 «•> 
296 n. ; ' Omniscient Jackson,* ii. 349 
n, ; Oxford, visits, ii. 398, 400 n. ; 
Paoli, lives with, i. 316 ; plaoe-hnnter, 
i. 396 ; Rudd, Mrs., i. 395 »., 399 n. ; 
Scotland his native place, i. 130 ». ; 
Seward, liked, ii. 35; step-mother, i. 
320, 396; superstitions, i. 231, 268, 
281 ; tiUces tea with Miss Williams, ii. 
335 n.\ Temple, enters at the, i. 316; 
iL 399; Thrale, visits, i. 313, 318; — 
health, ii. 103 ; — death, iL 209 ; 
Thrale, Mrs., letter to, i. 383 n. ; — 
studied letters, ii. 147 ». ; tour to the 
Hebrides, i. 230-292, 337 n. ; trouble- 
some kindness, i. 249 ; Warton, letter 

to, u. 155. 
BoswELL, Mrs., i. 229 »., 152, 287; 

ii. 16,43, 208. 
BoswELL, Thomas David, i. 317 ; ii. 181. 
Bos WELL, Veronica, i. 287. 

BOTTARELLI, F., ii. 4I5 ft. 

Bottom^ ii. 30. 

BowEN, J., ii. 106 n.y 11 1-2. 

Bower, Archibald, ii. 433. 

Bowles, William, ii. 146, 328, 341, 342 

«., 396 «• 

Box-clubs, i. 331. 

Boyd, Hon. Charles, i. 236. 

Branghton^ fl, ii. 137. 

Brewer, Father, i. 401. 

Brewers, ii. 160 «. 

Brewood School, ii. 161. 

Bright, Rev. Henry, Johnson's letter, 
i. 157 ; mentioned, i. 95, 108, 326. 

Brighthelmstone (Brighton), descrip- 
tion of it, i. 120 ; remoteness, i. 395 ».; 
ii. 41 w., 45, 56 ; journey to it, ii. 91 n. ; 
the Rooms, ii. 46, 105 n.\ the Steyne, 
ii. 79; Thomas's shop, ii. 79 «., 106; 
Bowen*s shop, ii. 106 «. 

Bristol, second Earl of, i. 133 «. 

Brocklesby, Dr., house, ii. 302 ; quotes 
Juvenal, 304 ; Johnson, attends, 308-9, 

313. 3i5» 339» 392» 4^3; —.letters to, 
331, 417 «. ; — dines with him, 396, 



402 ; — funeral, 434 ; — conversitiQB, 
436; met Lord Mansfield, 437. 

Brodhurst, — , iL 92. 

Broglio, Marshal, L la. 

Bromfield, Robert, M.D., i. 178 ^ 1194. 

Brooke, Francis, ii. 23. 

Broome, William, ii. 156, 180. 

Broome, — , ii. 315 w. 

Brothers and sisters, ii. 237. 

Brown, Dr. John, i. 11 «. 

Browne, Isaac Hawkins, ii. 324 n. 

Browne, Sir Thomas, Life, i. 62. 

Browne, Mrs., ii. 137. 

Bruce, James, 1313. 

Brydone, Patrick, iL 325 n. 

Brylston, George, i. 125. 

Budget, ii. 320. 

BugUyVi, 112 M. 

Building, i. 99 ; iL 350. 

BuLLER, Mrs., ii. 149. 

BULLERS of Buchan, L 237. 

Bumbo, ii. 329 n. 

BuNBURY, Sir Charles, ii. 434-5. 

Bun BURY, Sir H. E., ii. 436. 

BuNBURY, Henry WilUam, i. 344 »-, 
ii. 1 79 n, 

BuNBURY, Mrs., ii. 179. 

BuRKARTi, i. 17 «. 

Burke, Edmund, American war, i. 390 «.; 
Beaconsfield, i. 266 n, ; Bishop Shipley's 
house, ii. 157 ; companions of our softer 
hours, ii. 20 n. ; Grabbers patron, ii. 
287 «., 288 ; Croft's Life of i'oung, ii. 
189 «. ; Fowke's pension, i. 409 ». ; 
games, i. 330 «. ; Gordon riots, il 
166 n.; infuefue, i. 107 w. ; Jenkinson, 
attacks, ii. 18 if. ; Johnson's fnneralt 
ii- 434-5; labour needfnL ii. 439; 
* live pleasant,' iu 99 n.; « Ned,' i. 
123 i». ; Paymaster-general, ii. 261 «., 
263; portrait, ii. 108; reform of 
Parliament, ii. 286 n. ; Shelbume, 
Earl of, ii. 263 n. ; Speech an India, 
ii.375; Stonehenge,ii. 340; mentioned, 
i. 167 ; ii. 5 n.y 335 n, 

Burke, Richard, ii. 5 n. 

Burke, Richard (junior), ii. 227, 263 »., 

434- 
Burke, William, i. 123 n. ; iL 5 n. 

Burnet, Gilbert, Bishop of Salisbury, ii. 

331 «. 



Letters of Dr. Johnson, 



447 



Blimey family Caen Wood. 



BuRNEY FAMILY, Johnsoii's lovc for it, 
ii. 237. 

BuRNEY, Captain (afterwards Admiral), 
ii. 337, 240, 353 n, 

BuRNEY, Dr. Charles, ]^etti*s scheme, 
ii. 80 ; Chaulnes, Duke of, ii. 362 n, ; 
Gordon riots, ii. 1 72 ». ; History of 
Music t iL 77, 112 If., 118; Johnson 
at his house, ii. 183, 281 n. ; — , to 
bring, ii. 78 ; — ftmeral, ii. 434 ; 

— hearth-broom, ii. 223 n,\ — ill- 
ness, iL 310 — letter, ii. 144 ; Latin 
for misses, ii. 98 if. ; mnsic-lessons, 
ii. 140 If.; Musical Jounuy^ i. 206; 
robbed, ii. 70; Sunday evening con- 
certs, ii. 146 If. ; mentioned, ii« 5, 72, 

BuRNEY, Dr. Charles (junior), ii. 325 »., 
396 «., 434. 

BuRNEY, Charlotte, ii. 154 i»., 353. 

BuRNEY, Frances (Mme. D*Arblay), 
Baretti described, i. 351 n,\ Bath, 
visits, ii. 132 ; Boswell*s application to 
her, ii. 354 n. ; Brighton, ii. 46 if., 91 if., 
106 ^1. ; brother's ship, ii. 237 if.; Bruce 
the traveller, i. 313 n.\ Buller, Mrs., 
ii. 149 It. ; Carter, Mrs., ii. 163 it. ; 
Cecilia^ ii. 279 n.^ 280, 354 ; compli- 
ments paid to her, ii. 318 if.; Con- 
tractors' Bill, ii. 142 If. ; Crutchley, ii. 
236 If. ; Cumberland, hated by, ii. 112, 
122 If. ; description of her, ii. 133 if., 
354 If. ; diiuy and letters altered, ii. 
6 If. ; Dobson, Mrs., ii. 299 if. ; Evelina^ 
"• 77» ^37» 234; 'Fanny's trade is 
fiction,' ii. 325; Garrick, Mrs., iL 
252 If.; George III at Weymouth, 
iL 318 If.; Gordon riots, iL 164 if., 
169 If., 171 If., 173 If.; Herschers 
discoveries, iL 386 if. ; inaccuracy, 
ii. 237 If. ; Jebb, Sir R., iL 148 if. ; 
Johnson's admiration of her, i. 55 if.; 

— at a ball, ii. 232 it.; — at Dr. 
Bume/s, ii. 183 it., 281 if. ; — at Mrs. 
Garrick's, ii. 396 if.; — death, ii. 332 it., 
414 It. ; — described, ii. 6 if . ; — diet, 
ii. loi If . ; — to be drawn out, ii. 
392 It. ; — ill in 1 783. ii. 366 if., 369 n, ; 

— Latin lessons, iL 98 if., 182 ; ~ let- 
ters, iL 222, 353-4; — » letters to, iL 
118, 136, 353 If.; -^Letters to Mrs. 



ThrcUe^ ii. 5 if . ; — bums Mrs. Thrale's 
letters, iL 407 if. ; — Lives^ iL 186 it., 
197 If. ; — and Mrs. Montagu, ii. 
«39 «•» 336 «•; — Pf^sy, iL 310 if., 
312 If. ; — strange discipline, ii. 165 it. ; 
— , Mrs. Thrale and Piozzi, iL 368 it. ; 
Langton's children, ii. 317 if.; Mus- 
grave, Sir R., ii. 295 if. ; Pennick, Mr., 
L 133 »•; praised by Hutton, iL 175; 
salary at Court, i. 159 if. ; sea-bathing^ 
ii. 277 If. ; Southwark election, ii. 
157 ^-f Thrale*s illness, iL 94 if-, 
101 If. ; — death, iL 209 it., 211 if. ; 
Thrale, Mrs., described, ii. 5 if.; 

— slanders Miss Bumey, iL 408 if. ; 

— and Metcalfe, ii. 345 n, ; — and 
Piozzi, iL 6 if., 351 if., 386 if., 394 if. ; 

— sale of the brewery, ii. 217 if., 
222 It. ; Thrale, Miss, ii. 5 it., 394 n, ; 
Young, Professor, ii. 315 » . ; men- 
tioned, iL 129, 152, 229. 

BuRNEY, Richard, ii. 310. 

BuRNEY, Susan, L 350 it.; ii. 109 it.» 

310 If., 390 It. 
Burning glass, iL 311. 
Burns, Robert, £lphinston*s Martial^ L 

17 If. ; Bullers of Buchan, 237 it. 
Burton, Robert, Anatomy of Melancholy 

quoted, L 257 if., 293, 383 ; iL 22 n.^ 

202 It., 253 If. 
Bustle y i. 196 It. 
Bute, third Earl o^ i. 92, 137 if. ; iL 

401 If. 
Butler, Mr. A. J., L 61 n, 
Butler, Rev. — , i. 157 n, 
Butler, Samuel, i. 218 if. 
Butt, Rev. Mr., ii. 434. 
Butter, Dr., L 189 it. ; ii. 434. 
Byron, Admiral, iL 79 it., 121 n,^ 235 if. 
Byron, Augusta, ii. 79. 
Byron, Lord, ii. 79 n,^ 235 n. 
Byron, Mrs., iL 79, 117, 121 it., 140 n., 

142 If., 235 If., 360. 



C. 



', Sir James, ii. 164 n. 



--->^ 



Cadell, Thomas, i. 25 it. ; ii. 275 it.; 

Johnson*s letters, L 188 ; iL 61, 71,89, 

208. 
Caen Wood, iL 168. 



448 



Index to 



Calder, Bev. Dr. John. Chesterfield, Sari ofl 



Calder, Rev. Dr. John, i. 374; John- 
son's letter, 376. 

Calling in the country ^ ii. 24 n. 

Calmet, Augnstin, i. 147; ii. 391. 

Calvert, Felix, ii. 23 «. 

Calvert, Mrs., i. 122. 

Calvert and Seward, i. 346. 

Cambridge, Richard Owen, ii. 317 w. 

Camden, Lord Chancellor, i. 421. 

Camden, William, ii. 341. 

Campuell, Dr. John, ii. 433. 

Campbell, — , i. 292. 

Camps, ii. 71. 

Canals ii. 78 n. 

Canals, i. 175. 

Car, — , i. 11. 

Careless, Mrs., i. 41 n., 164, 203, 378 ; 
li. 17, 228. 

Carlisle, fifth Earl of, ii. 38 «., 109 «. 

Carlisle, Countess of, ii. 368. 

Carlvle, Rev. Alexander, D.D.,i. 272 ». 

Carlyle, Thomas, Battle of Chotnsitz, 
i. 1 3 «. ; like Johnson, 20 if. ; Watson's 
Philip II f 41 3 ». ; brothers and friends, 
ii. 237 ». 

Carmichael, Miss, ii. 42 «., 75, 7;|^ 

Carte, Rev. Samuel, ii. 281. 

Carte, Thomas, i. 17 «., 170 n. 

Carter, Elizabeth, Johnson's letter, i. 
55 ; described by Miss Burncy, ii.163 n, ; 
mentioned, ii. 24, 251. 

Carter, — , a riding-school master,i. 309, 

312, 321, 327» 329.338,361,377- 
Carteret, John, Lord (Earl Granville), 

i. 12. 
Car WITH EN, Miss, i. 94. 
Castiglione, Prince Gonzaga di, ii. 6. 
Castles, the, ii. 183 n. 
Catalogus Bibliotheca Thuafue^ i. 30 «. 
Catamaran^ '\\, 122. 
Catch, ii. 108. 
Catcot, George, i. 404. 
Catherine the Second, ii. 377. 
Cator, John, i. 355 ; ii. 128 «., 210 «., 

212-3, 216 «., 217, 222, 312, 373-4, 

381 «., 389, 391- 
Cave, Edward, Johnson impransus^ i. 3 ; 

— Irene, 5 «• ; — and Lewis Paul, 7 ; 

— Rambler, 29 «. ; death, 55 ; sister, 
67 n, ; CoUins's lidele, 37 n. ; ii. 
131 «. 



Cave, Richard, or William, L 58,60^ 
66, 69 ; Johnson*s letter, L 57. 

Cavendish, the Lords, ii. 10. 

Cavendish, Lord Frederick, iL 167 «. 

Cavendish, Loid John, ii. 261 «. 

Cawdor, L 240. 

Celsus, i. 220. 

Cephalick, ii. 356 n. 

Chambers, Catherine, i. 76, 82-6, 91, 
93,99,111. 125, 131. 

Chambers, Ephraim, i. 374 «. 

Chambers, Sir Robert, at Univasty 
College, i. 113 «. ; Prindpal of New 
Inn Hall, 132 «., 141 »., 153 n. ; Jobi- 
son*8 companion to Newcastle, 212, 
224; Judge in Bengal, 341 ; ii 65 a. 
363, 288 ; Universal History, ii. 432. 

Chambers, Mrs. (Lady Chambns\ I 

34^347- 
Chamier, Andrew, iL 109 « , 121 1». 
Chandler, Dr. Richard, i. 321. 
Change of place, ii. 329. 
Chaplin, — , ii. 49. 
Chapone, Mrs. (^Miss Mulso), ii. 141, 

353- 

Charles II, i 59 «., 302 «. 

Charles of Siveden, i. 11. 

Charleton, Dr. Walter, ii. 341. 

Charlotte, Queen, i. 184 «., 258 «.; iL 
5 //., 318 n. 

Charter-house, ii. 14 «.^ 207, 213. 

Chatham, WilHam Pitt, first Earl oC 
infliunce, i. 107 «. ; Dnke of Northum- 
berland, 228 n, ; Highland regiments, 
274 n.\ Jacobite song at Oxford, ii 
227 ». ; son, ib. \ reform of Parliament. 
2 86 n. 

Chatsworth, i. 201 ; ii. 43. 

Chatterton, Thomas, i. 398, 400,404; 

ii. 250 n. 
Chaulnes, Duke of, ii. 362 «. 
Chemical sect, ii. 253. 
Chenevix, Rev. Dr. R. (Bishop of 

Waterford). i. 11 «. 
Chesterfield, fourth Earl of, Ccmrts 

and Camps, ii. 71 n.\ effects of old age. 

ii. 212 ». ; hoc age, i. 337 «. ; Johnson's 

Dictionary, i. 409 «. ; Lord-Lieutenant 

of Ireland, i. lo; men*8 weaknesses. ii. 

314 «. ; Ranelagh, i. 306 n. ; mentioned, 

i. I3«» 35a n.\ ii. 38 «. 



Letters of Dr, Johnson, 



449 



Chesterfield, Earl o£ Cottenhamy Earl o£ 



Chesterfield, fifth Earl of, ii. ii n. 
Chetwood, William Rofus, 1. 5. 
Chevy Chase, ii. 440. 
Chevne, George, M.D., L 393, 358 ; ii. 

198 «., 235 n. 
Children, treatment of, ii. 110, 183. 
China-ware, ii. 35. 
Chirurgeon^ ii. i. 
Cholmondeley, G. J., ii. 50. 
Cholmondeley, Hon. and Rev. Robert, 

ii. 186 n. 
Cholmondeley, Hon. Mrs., ii. 116 »., 

186 «., 334 «., 339. 
Christ's Hospital, i. 303-4. 
Chronology, ii. 37. 
Churchill, Charles, ii. 333 n. 
Cicero, quoted, i. 374 n . ; ii. 301 . 
Civilitation^ i. 364 n. 
Clarendon, first Earl of, i. 309 n. 
Clarendon Press, see imder Oxford. 
Clarke, John, i. 95, 308. 
Clark F., Alderman Richard, it 65 ft., 

363 »• 
Claude Loraine, ii. 399. 

Clergyman, letter of one at Bath, ii. 
354 ; petition of a poor curate, 378 n. 

Clerk, Sir Philip Jennings, ii. 6 n., 94, 
III, 119, 143, 153, 171 «., 339 i».. 
310, 313. 

Climate, ii. 183 it. 

CUNK, The, ii. 178. 

Clothes, cost o^ iL 378. 

Clubs: City, ii. 313 »., 363 n.\ Essex 
Head, it 367, 377 »., 390, 396 «., 40a, 
4"f 415. 4i7f 4^9* 4^3 ; Hum-drum, 
ii. 369 «• » Ivy I-»nc, ii. 359, 363-4. 
388, 390; Literary, i. 131, 315 ; ii. 65, 
88 It., 313-4, 403; Rambler, ii. 364 n. 

Coaches, fares and speed, i. 78 n,^ 14a it., 
'73 «•» i9i> 320 It., 39a It. ; ii. 338 it., 
339f 430 M. ; mail-coaches, i. 393 n. ; 
vacant places, i. 183, 334, 336-7, 357 ; 
ii. 338 It. 

Coal, scarcity of, ii. 351 n.^ 360. 

Coarse^ i. 348 n. 

Cobb, Mrs., i. 139, 164, 173, 331 ; ii. 93, 

330. 38a. 
Cock Lank Ghost, ii. 391 n, 
Cockei^s Arithmetic^ i. 343. 
Coffey, — , i. 356 n. 
COLB, Robert, F.S.A^ i. 6 n, 

VOL. II. G 



Cole, Rev. William, iL 189 n. 

Colebrook, Sir George, i. 170. 

Coleridge, S. T., i. 303 it. 

Coll, Isle of, i. 376-8. 

Coll, Laird of, i. 367, 369, 277, 379, 331, 

371- 
College Tutor, ii. 440. 

Collier, Dr. Arthur, ii. 69. 

Collier, Sir George, i. no it. 

Collier, Misses, ii. 362-4, 369-70, 

378, 380, 383. 
Colli NGTON, — , i. 133 it. 
Colling wood. Admiral, ii. iii it. 
Collins, William, melancholy, i. 36I 39, 

63 ; Life and poems, ii. 130-1, 198. 
Colman, George, i. 133 it., 314; ii. 

"5 «.»434- 
Colquhoun, Sir James, i. 386. 

CoMAUL Uddien Khan, i. 410,11. 
Comet, ii. 339 n. 
Common evils, ii. 336. 
Compliments, i. 339. 
COMPTON, Rev. James, ii. 290; John- 
son's letter, ii. 371. 
Condolenty i. 96. 
Congreve, Rev. Charles, i. 304, 307, 

3i5» 378-9- 
Congreve, William, quoted, i. 181 ; 

Old Bachelor y ii. 38 n, ; Lijfej ii. 154, 

160. 
Contemplation, ii. 31. 
Contractors* Bill, il. 143. 
Conversation, ii. 19 »., 403. 
Conversation (conversazione), ii. 105, 

179. 
Conway, Hon. Captain, ii. 337 n, 
Conway, — , ii. 167 n. 
Cook, Captain, i. 333 n. ; ii. 19, 77 n. 
Cooke, William, ii. 434. 
Cooper, Grey, i. 311. 
Coots, Sir Eyre, i. 340. 
CoPy i. 161 n. 
Copyright, i. 397. 
Corn, price of, i. 19a. 
Corn-mill, i. 155. 
CoRNBURY, Viscount (Baron Hyde), i. 

309 It. 
CoRNELYS, Madame, i. 88 n, 
Cornwallis, Lady Mary, ii. 33 it. 
Correggio, ii. 53 n. 
Cottbnham, first Earl of, IL 136 it. 



g 



450 



Index to 



Cotterell, AdmiraL 



COTTERELL, Admiral, i. 43 n. 
CoTTERELL, Miss, i. 43 «. ; iL 393. 
Cotton, Heorj, ii. 394 n. 
Cotton, Mrs., ii. 132, ijiS. 
Cotton, Sir L3nich Salosbary, ii. 44 it., 

351- 
Cotton, Sir Robert, i. aoi n. ; ii. 44 n. 

Cotton, Robert, ii. 151 n. 

Cotton, Sir Thomas, L ia8 «. 

COULSON, Rer. John, L 113 n., 323, 325, 

327. 3^ ; ii. 16. 

Country towns, i. 107. 

Courtney, Right Hod. Leonard H., i. 
333 n, 

Coventry, ii. 92. 

Cowley, Abraham, qaoted, i. 181 ; ii. 
201 ; Life^ ii. 68. 

Cowley, Father, i. 401. 

Cowper, William, balloons, ii. 333 n, ; 
Gray's Letters, i. 317 ». ; Heberden, ii. 
95 n. ; James*s powder, i. 23 ». ; John- 
son's religions state, i. 49 it. ; iL 385 ». ; 
Lord Dartmouth, ii. 291 n. ; meteors, 
ii> 334 n, ; transmission of money, i. 
77 «. 

Coxeter, Thomas, i. 17017., 414. 

Coxeter, Thomas, the younger, i. 170, 
414. 

Crabbe, George, Gordon riots, ii. 167 «., 
168 »., 174 n.\ Johnson reads his 
poem, 287 ; meteor of 1783, 334 n. 

Cradock, Joseph, ii. 74 n. ; Johnson's 
letter, 284. 

Cranbourne, Lady, ii. 157. 

Crane, Dr., i. 400. 

Craven, Lady, ii. 143, 153, 157, 414 n. 

Crisp, Samuel, ii. loi n., 109 n. 

Criticism, ii. 148. 

Croft, Rev. Herbert, ii. 189 ». 

Croft, — , ii. 294. 

Croker, John Wilson, i. 241 ». ; ii. 

138 «., 336 »•» 44^ »• 
Crompton, Samuel, i. 6 n. 
Cromwell, Oliver, i. 235; ii. 261 w., 

321 n. 
Crosse, John, i. 135 n. 
Crow, Mrs., i. 6. 
Crown-birds, ii. 187. 
Cruikshank, William Cumberland, ii. 

339» 342-3, 346, 434- 
Crutchley, Jeremiah, ii. 128, 210 «., 



216 «., 219 n^ 322, 236, 298, 3^, 
39111. 

Cumberland, Duke of, iL 339 «. 

Cumberland, Richard, ' past compate.' 
L 387 ; Garner's limeral, iL 84 m. ; 'is 
a million,' iii ; jealousy, 112, Ufa., 
122 Iff. ; lo65 of znonej, 118 «., 123; 
Walloons^ 252 n, ; mentioned, 117. 

Cumins, Mis., ii. 181, 232. 

Cummins, — , iL 231. 

Cunning people, ii. 270. 

CuxoN. — , i. 70. 

D. 

D , Mrs., ii. 74, 

lyAGUiLAR, Baroo, ii. 173 n. 

Dale, Mrs^ L 348. 

Darlington, i. 225. 

Dartmouth, second Earl of, L 373 a.; 
Johnson's letter, iL 291. 

Darwin, Charles, L 82 jt. 

Darwin, Charles Robert, L 82 m. 

Darwin, Erasmus, marriage, L 82 «.; 
Lichfield apothecaries, 162 ».; Ltms 
of the Plants, iL 235 n. ; quoted, 365*^ 

394 «. 
Darwin, Robert Waring, i. 8a it. 
Davenant, Mrs., L 333 n. ; ii. 350, 393. 

394 »• 
Davenport, William, L 303 n., 314. 
Daventry, ii. 92. 
Davies, Thomas, iL 28, 56, 64, 86«., 260, 

308 «. 
Davies, Mrs., ii. 308 »., 33a n. 
Davis, Mrs., it 332. 
Day, Thomas, i. 160 n. 
Days, bright and cloudy, i. 346. 
De Foe, Daniel, L 1 20 ». 
De Groot, Isaac, ii. 14, 
Dead, commending the, L 79 «. 
Death : facing it, i. 77 ; thinking on it, 

134; condition of one's natmv, 13S, 

212 «.; mors omnibus communis, i8a 
Delap, Rev.pr.,i. 33a«.; U. 1 12, 118a. 
DelitesctncCy i. 401 ; ii. 441. 
Denmark, Queen of, L 319, 340 «. 
Derby, ii. 35. 
Derby, Rev. John, ii. 73. 
Dereliction, ii, 307. 
Descartes, i. 48. 
Descriptions, ii. 331. 



Letters of Dr. Johnson. 



451 



Desmoulins, John Elgin. 



Desmoulins, John, ii. 73, 75-6, 79, 291, 

397* 434- 
Desmoulins, Mrs., i. 4 »., 6 fi., 54 n, ; 

iL 42, 74, 107, 122, 152. 187, 191, 193, 

207, 240, 242 «., 295, 297, 309 «., 332, 

426 ; Johnson's letter, i. 365. 

Devizes, ii. 132 n, 

Devon, Earl of, i. 224 n, 

Devonshire, third Dake of, i. la. 

Devonshire, fourth Doke of, i. 117 fi. 

Devonshire, fifth Dake of, ii. 10, 26a. 

Devonshire, Duchess of, ii. 352. 

Dicey, — , i. 66. 

Dickens, Charles, i. 39a n. 

Dictionaries, ii. 415, 417, 426. 

Dictionary^ Johnson's, i. 25-8, 34, 42, 
324 n, ; fourth edition, 190-1 ; abridg- 
ment, ii. 35 n, ; plan, 38 n. 

Diderot, ii. 80 n, 

DiLLY, Messieurs, i. 314, 320 »., 360 w., 
384 w., 397 «. ; ii. 208 w., 396. 

DiOT, Mr. and Mrs., i. 342, 348 ; ii. 30. 

Dirty Lane, i. 196 ». 

Discoveries, i. 210. 

Distance, effect of, i. 386 ». 

DiXEY (DixiE\ Beaumont, I 14 n. 

DiXEY, Sir Wolstan, i. a ; ii. 364 n. 

DiXEY (Dixie), — , ii. 364. 

DoBSON, Dr. Matthew, ii. 299 ti, 

DoBSON, Susanna, iL 399. 

DoDD, Rev. William, D.D., trial and 
execution, ii. 1 1 ; Johnson 's petitions, 
&c, 17, 18; 'prattling on paper,' 71; 
Chapel, 391 If. 

DoDSLEY, James and Robert, i. 5 «., 35 
//., 38, 62 w., 79 »., 89 n. 

Doge of Genoa, i. 370; ii. 393. 

DoLBEN, Sir William, i. 137 n,\ ii. 

155 ». 

DONCASTER, i. 324. 

Doughty, William, i. 399 n, 

Douglas, Duchess of, i. 339. 

Douglas, John, D.D., Bishop of Carlisle 
and afterwards of Salisbury, Johnson's 
letter, i. 377; — Lettert to Mrs, 
Thrale, ii. 5. 

Douthwaite, Mr. W. R., i. 88 n. 

DowHy to^ ii. 73. 

Doxy, Miss, ii. ia9«. 

Doxy, — , a medical man, ii. 36a. 

DozenerSy i. 162 ; ii. 93 n. 



Drake, Sir Francis, i. 166. 

Drinking, i. 333, 368, 408 ; it 87, 366. 

Drummond of Blair, i. 377 «. 

Drummond, William, I 337. 

Dryden, John, poetry m Oxford, ii. 33 n. ; 
LifCy 68-93 writing with a hat, ia8; 
Miscellany^ 195 n, ; lines to Charleton, 
341 n, ; quoted : Absalom and Achito- 
phclf ii. 43 ; Alexander's Feast, L 337 
»• ; >i« 53 ; Character of a GoodParson^ 
iL 397 If. ; Conquest of Granada, ii. 
373 ; Lines to John Driden, ii. 117; 
from other poems, i. 183 n,\ iL 45. 

Du Fresnoy, ii. 386 n, 

Dunbar, Dr., ii. 183. 

Dunbar, Sir James, ii. 183 n, 

DuNBUYS, L 336. 

Duncan, Sir William, iL 401 n. 

Dundee, L 333. 

Dunn, — , iL 370. 

Dunning, John (first Lord Ashbnrton), 

ii. 145 «• 
DuNTON, John, ii. 141 n. 
Dun VEGAN Castle, L 345, 367. 
Durham, L 336. 
Dutch Service, regiments in the, i. 

368. 
Duties of life, L ioi. 
Dyer, John, iL 108 n. 
Dyer, Samuel, ii. 108, 364, 390. 

E. 

East, Rev. Mr., ii. 434. 

East India Company, L 170; iL 358, 

375. 
Ecclesiastical History of England, 

L74. 
Edgeworth, Richard Lovell, i. 346 n. ; 

ii. a35 «. 
Edinburgh, L 338, 393. 
Edinhurgh Dispensatory, iL 303. 
Education, i. 334, 394 ; ii. 134, 437. 
Edward the Confessor, L 74. 
Edwards, Rev. Dr. Edward, iL 357, 360, 

398, 410. 
Edwards, Oliver, iL 296 n, 
Eglinton, Earl of, L 377 ».; Countess, 

393. 
Eld, — , L II. 

Eldon, first Earl ot See Scott, John. 
Elgin, i. 339, 340 n., 301 n. 



452 



Index to 



Elioty Sdward. Franoe. 



Eliot, Edward (fiist Lord Eliot), ii. 113, 
326 If. 

Elizabeth, Queen, ii. 437. 

Elliot, Sir Gilbert, i. 420. 

Elphinston, James, i. 17 if., 314; iL 
313 n, ; Johnson's letters, i. 17; ii.67. 

Emerson, R. W., ii. 337 n. 

Empires, how broken down, ii. 375. 

EngimeTf ii. 164 n, 

Ehgland, (1779) all trade dead, ii. 120; 
(i 780) poverty and degradation, 1 50 li. ; 
(1782) sinking, 264 ; (1783) fear of a 
civil war, 386 ; (1784) times dismal 
and gloomy, 370; a broken down 
empire, 375. See also Invasions. 

English, writing verses, i. 97. 

Engraving, i. 145. 

Enthusiasm^ ii. 306 n, 

Epistoluky ii. 53 n, 

Erasmus, ii. 45, 441. 

Ekrol, Earl and Coontess of, i. 336. 

Erse, i. 355, 360. 

Erskine, Hon. Thomas (afterwards Lord 
Chancellor Erskine), ii. 76 n. 

Eruption of Krakatoaf ii. 330 n, 

Eugkf i. 386 n. 

Evans, Rev. Mr., i. 393 ; ii. 145 «., 154. 

Evelyn, John, i. 154. 

Evil, apprehensions of, i. 262, 327. 

Executions, ii. 332 w., 347, 402 n. 

Exemplification^ ii. 270. 

Exercise, ii. 99, 102, 254, 355. 

Exeter Exchange, i. 396. 

Exhibition. See Royal Academy. 

Extenuation^ ii. 159. 

Eyre, Baron, ii. 65 n. 

Eyre, George, i. 25 »., 115 n.\ ii. 372 n. 

F. 

Factory ^ ii. 377 n. 

Fakenham [Fcckenham], Abbot, ii.437. 

Falconer, Dr., ii. 249. 

Falkland's Islands, i. 167 ». 

Fame, ii. 116. 

Farmer, Rev. Richard, D.D., Johnson's 
letters, i. 169 ; ii. 13, iSof/. ; — funeral, 
ii. 434 ; Ruggle*s Ignoramus y ii. 388 n. ; 
mentioned, i. 204. 

Faulkner, George, i. 13, 316. 

Feelers, ii. 124, 126. 

Feeling, i. 187. 



Fenton, Ellijaby ii. 156, 195-6. 
Feudal Coxstiti-tion, L 144- 
Feudist, L 145 IV. 
Fielding, Henry, Jaunes*s powder, L 

33 n. ; anonymous writiiigSr 80 a. ; 

Dr. Cheney, 359 n. ; his SKCcaoc, 

396 «r. ; brother^ ii. 168 iv. 
Fielding, Sir John, ii. 168, 170 m. 
Fitzherbert, Elizabeth, i. 45 n. 
Fitzherbert, William, i. 17 ar., 46 a^ 

48. 
Fitzmaurice, Hon. Thomas, Johnson^s 

letter, ii. 81 ; — dines with fajm, 151. 
Fitzosbomis Letters , ii. 148. 
FiTZROY, Lord Charies, i. 10 ar. 
Fixed air, ii. 362. 
Flattery, i. 331 ; ii. 308. 
Fleetwood, Charles, i. 5. 
Fletcher, Mrs., ii. 262. 
Fleury, Cardinal, i. 13. 
Flint, Miss, Johnson's letter, L 150. 
Flint, — , i. 349 ; ii. 263 m^ 269 «., 

370, 378, 383. 
Flying Man, ii. 419. 
FooTE, Samuel, i. 4 ff., 258 ar. ; ii. 55. 
Ford, Rev. Cornelias, i. 177. 
FORDYCE, Miss, i. 226. 
FoRDYCE*s Bank, i. 192 j»., 226. 
Formulary t i. 330 «. 
Forrester, Colonel, ii. 414 n. 
Fort Augustus, i. 242. 
Fort George, i. 240. 
Fortescue, Mr. G. K., ii. 438. 
Foss, Edward, ii. 325 ». 
Fothergill, Rev. Thomas, D.D., i. 

323 «•> 324 »• 
Foundling Hospital, i. 417. 

Fowke, Francis, Johnson*s letter, i. 409. 

Fowke, Joseph, i. 409 ; Johnson's letter, 

ii. 2S8. 
Fowler, Mr. J. Coke, i. 342 if.; ii. 

400 n. 
Fox, Charles James, Westminster election, 

ii. 172 n, ; superior to his father, 227i». ; 

Rockingham ministry, 261 ; reform of 

Parliament, 286 if. ; East India Bill, 

358 n. ; Reynolds's portrait, 393 m. 
Fox-hunting, ii. 96. 
France, rebellion imminent, i. 121*.; 

Johnson's visit, 369, 378 ; transports, 

ii. 251 ; wolves, 383 «. 



Letters of Dr. Johnson. 



453 



Franklin* Bei^amin Gordon, Sir Alexander. 



Franklin, Benjamin Journeyman printer, 
t 6'j n,; advice about parsons, ii. 
383 M, ; balloons, 365 n. 

Franks. See Post. 

Fraser of Strichen, i. 239 n. 

Frederick II, King of Prussia, i. la. 

Fregf tOf i. 309 «. 

Freeth, S. and S., i. 156 n, 

French, Gilbert, i. 6 n. 

Friendship : its form varies, i. 68 ; 
friends of one*s youth, 7i» 73; its 
duties, loo-i ; bom friends, ii. 337 ii., 
392 ; old friends, 350 ; comforts of 
friendship, 357, 428. 

FrizSy ii 57 Ii. 

Fromb, ii. 194. 

Fust, John, i. 144. 

Future life, it 380. 



G. 



-, Mrs., ii. 73. 



Galen isTs, ii. 253 i{. 

Gallicisms, L 61. 

Galway, Lady, ii. 151 n. 

Games, i. 330 n. 

Gardiner, Mrs., i. 156 n,\ ii. 2, 174, 

332, 399> 414 «. 
Garlick, — , i. 70. 

Garnett, Dr. T., i. 249 n, 

Garrick, David, benefit to Miss Wil- 
liams, i.i^3 ; ii. 334 ». ; club forfeits, 
ii. 415 If. ; compared with Mrs. Porter, 
ii. 344 If. ; Cumberland's plays, ii. iii 
n.\ death, ii. 55 if., 84, 86, 220 n,\ 
funeral, ii. 252, 435 ; Drury Lane 
llieatre, ii. 252 if. ; generosity, ii 66 ; 
Goldsmith and Hawkesworth, i. ^5 
If. ; Johnson attacks him, i. 75 if., 118 
If. ; — IritUf L 4 If., 5 ; — letters, i. 
1 16-8, 127, 150, 186; London Cuckolds, 
i. 185 n, ; Mickle quarrels with him, 
i. 214, 422 ; niece, ii. 129 if.; verses, 
t 421 ; Moll, ii. 230; wine-merchant, 
ii. 20 m, ; mentioned, i. 49 if., 211 if. 

Garrick, Mrs., ii. 62, 150 n., 230 n., 
250-1, 294 If., 396; Johnson's letter, 
ii. 84. 

Garrick, Peter, i. 4 if. ; ii 20, 93, 230. 

Gastrell, Mrs., i. 160 j». ; ii. 3, 25, 46 
If., 58, 82-3, 85, 90, 114, 120, 229, 248; 
Johnson's letten,ii. 60,248,368,382,429. 



Gawler, Mrs., ii. 186 if. 

Gay, John, ii. 195 if., 198, 275. 

Gell, Philip, i. 348. 

Gell, Sir William, L 348 n. 

Genius, ii. 55, 437. 

Genoa, i. 270; iL 35 «., 393. 

George 111, Bos Bleu, ii. 390 n,\ 
Coronation, i. 91 ; Gordon riots, ii. 
170 If., 177; Johnson, interview with, 
i. 115 If.; ii. 289 If.; — sends him 
his LiveSy ii. 87; — a Papist and a 
Jacobite, ib, if. ; Library, L 143 n. ; 
London Cuckolds^ i: 185 n. ; Pitt*s 
ministry in 1783-4, ii. 374 if.; visits 
Weymouth, ii. 318 if. 

German Language, i. 324 if. 

Gibbon, Edward, American war, i. 386 
If., 390 If. ; epitaph on Earl of Devon, 
i. 224 n. ; Gordon riots, ii. 166 if. 
lucid interoaly ii. 377 if.; Oxford in 
the Long Vacation, i. 361 n. ; reform 
of Parliament, ii. 286 if. ; remedy for 
sorrow, ii. 210 «.; Saint Martin, ii. 
192 If.; Sheffield, Lady, ii. 252 if.; 
Spencer, Countess, ii. iii if., 36911.; 
Universal History, ii. 431 m., 432 it. 

Gill, Alderman, i. 116 if. 

GiSBORNE, a banker, L 14 if. 

Glasgow, i. 291. 

Glenelg, i. 251. 

Gloucester, Duke of, ii. 167 n. 

Gluttony, ii 323. 

Goethe, i. 355 «. 

Goldsmith, Oliver : Beattie, i. 287 «. ; 
Collins, i. 37 ». ; Cumberland the 
dramatist, ii. 1 1 1 if . ; death, ii. 191 if., 
209 If. ; Douglas, i. 377 ». ; Garrick, 
i. 365 If. ; Good'Naiurcd Man, L 1 1 if . ; 
Homecks, Miss, i. 221 if., 344 it.; iL 
318 It.; Hum-drum Club, ii 359 it.; 
Johnson defends him, ii. 326 it. ; — 
letter, i. 215 ; Lennox, Mrs., ii. 115 «.; 
letter- writing, L 65 if., 215 n. ; Literary 
Club, ii. 50 If.; Newbery, i. 23 ». ; 
posterity, ii. 51 ir.; print of him, ii. 
108 ; Scotch scenery, i. 251 j». ; She 
Stoops to Conquer, i. 214; sufferings 
of authors, ii. 149 n. ; suit of dothes, 
ii. 279 It. ; takes tea with Mi«i Wil- 
liams, ii. 335 n. 

Gordon, Sir Alexander, i. 235 n. 



454 



Index to 



Qordon, Buke o£ Hawkins^ Sir Jobn. 



Gordon, Duke of, ii. 176. 

Gordon, Lord George, ii. 166 »., 167, 

17a, 174 ». 
Gordon Riots, i. 402 n.\ ii. 164 n., 

166-178. 
Gothickf i. 346 n. 
GouGH, Richard, i. 301 n. 
Gout, i. 367, 403 ; ii. 108, 338. 
Graevius, i. 144. 
Grafton, first Duke of, i. 59 n, 
Grainger, Dr. James, i. 315 ». ; ii. 70 n. 
Grammarians, ii. 440. 
Granger, Rev. James, Johnson's letter, 

i. 203. 
Grant, Colonel, i. 240 n. 
Grant, Rev. Mr., L 340 »., 241 n. 
Granville, George (Lord Lansdowne), 

ii. 130 »., 131, 190. 
Gravedo^ ii. 339, 345 n. 
Gravesend, ii. 319 «., 333. 
Gray, John, bookseller, i. 5 n. 
Gray, Thomas, Letters ^ i. 317 ; Lifcj ii. 

180 n., 189 If., 315; quoted, 1. 350 n, ; 

ii. 356 n. 
Greaves, Samuel, ii. 390 n. 
Green, Richard, account of him, i. 161 

n. ; his Museum, 186, 308, 331 ; ii. 

91 ; Johnson's letter, i. 340; mentioned, 

ii. I7» 55- 
Greens, ii. 22 n. 

Greeves, — , ii. 90. 

Grenville, Right Hon. George, John- 
son's letter, i. 98. 

Grevil, Dr., i. 178. 

Greville, Richard Fulke, i. 60 ».; ii. 
7 w., 146. 

Grief, i. 171 «., 212, 382-5; ii. 4 w., 
67, 71, 209-12, 214-5. 

Grimm, Baron, i. 79 n. ; ii. 365 n, 

Grotius, ii. 14. 

Gunnings, the Miss, ii. 122 n. 

Gwatkin, Mrs., ii. 85 n. 

Gwynn, Colonel, i. 344 ». ; ii. 318 «. 

Gwynn, John, ii. 15, 61. 

GwYNNE, Nell, ii. 302 n. 



H. 

H , Miss, ii. 298-9, 317. 

Hacket, Bishop, ii. 99 n. 
Hackney-coaches, ii. 322. 



H ADLEY, John, ii. 117 m. 

Hagley, i. 177. 

Hailes, Lord (Sir David Dalrympk ,ii. 
150 «. 

Hall, Mrs., i. 372 ; ii. 57 »., 392. 

Hamilton, Archibald, L 30, 376 ; John- 
son's letter, i. 374. 

Hamilton, William Gerard, Johnson's 
letter, ii. 348 ; kindness to JdmscD, 
3521368; mentioned, L 314; iLi34«., 
137 If., 146. 

Hamilton, Rev. Dr., Johnson's lettos, 
ii. 396, 378, 399. 

Hammond, Rev. Henry, D.D., i. 357; 
ii. 335. 

Hammond, James, ii. 159. 

Hampstead, ii. 311. 

Hanmer, Sir Thomas, ii. 131 m. 

Harborough, Earl of, iL 284 n. 

Harcourt, Earl o^ ii. 37. 

Harding, Caleb, i. 375. 

Hardy, Rev. Dr. 5^wi^|>]^ Johuoo's 
letter, ii. 304. 

Harington, Sir John, ii. 138 n. 

Harington, Dr., i, 401 j». ; ii. 138 «. 

Harlby, Alderman, i. 304. 

Harris, James, ii. 4. 

Harris, Mrs., ii. 5 ». 

Harris, Thomas, ii. 17 f». 

Harrison, Rev. Cornelius, L 225. 

Harrison, — (Johnson's nnde), i. 
325 «. 

Hartley, H.W;, i. 386 n. 

Harvests, (1772) i. 192, 201 »., (1775) 

342. (1777) "• 38. 

Haslang, Count, ii. 167 ft. 

Hastings, Warren, i, 298 «., 410. 

Hatherton, Baron, ii. 161 «. 

Hawes, L., i. 25 n. 

Hawkesworth, John, LL.D., Aehen- 
turer, i. 36 ; effrontery, 56 n. ; John- 
son s letter, 60; — , correspondence 
with, 365; Collected Works. 412 ». ; 
ii. 7-8; Life of Siuift, ii, 196; j^y 
Lane Clnb, 364 «., 390. 

Hawkesworth, Mrs., i. 61 ; ii. •». 

Hawkins, Sir John, Ivy Lane Club, ii 
359» 363-4 ; Johnson's dread of death, 
ii. 380 n. ; — preparmg himself to die, 
ii. 381 H. ; — executor, ii. 407 i». ; _ 
funeral, ii. 434 ; — letters, ii. 358, ^3, 



Letters of Dr. Johnson. 



455 



Hawkins, John Sidney Humm. 



413, 439; — letter on Mrs. Piozzi's 
marriage, ii. 406 n, ; — relations, i. 
306 n. ; ii. 371 «., 431 «. ; Taylor's 
preaching, ii. 403. 

Hawkins, John Sidney, ii. 387 n. 

Hay, Sir George, i. 137. 

Hay-making, i. 353. 

Haywaro, Abraham, ii. 37 »., 393 »., 
40711. 

Head-dress, i. 358; ii. 35, 57. 

Heale, ii. 338. 

Health, dnty to preserve it, i. 171. 

Hearken after ^ ii. 353 n, 

Hearne, Thomas, i. 133 n. ; ii. 431 n, 

Heartwell, — , i. 164. 

Heberden, William, M.D., account of 
him, ii. 95 if. ; quoted, 339; timidis- 
simusy 347 n.\ house, 303 n,\ John- 
son's physician, 303, 304, 307-8, 315, 

343, 367, 369, 371, 373-4, 380, 38a-4, 

391; — letters, 376, 433; mentioned, 

ii. 97-8, 101-3. 
Hector, Edmund, Johnson's letters, i. 

41, 67, 73, 134, 303-3, 369, 377 ; 

— early friendship with him, i. 71 »., 

73; ii. 337 n,\ — health, ii. 338; 

name, i. 164, 370 n, ; niece ill, ii. 78 ; 

mentioned, i. 305, 338; ii. 17. 
Hector, George, i. 41 it. 
Heely, Humphrey, i. 306; ii. 371. 
Heights, desire to cast oneself down, ii. 

440. 
Helsham, Richard, i. 31. 
Henderson, John, ii. 434. 
Henry, David, i. 67, 69. 
Henry, Patrick, i. 67 n, 
Herne, Elizabeth (Phoebe), ii. 194, 306, 

256 «., 378. 
Herrings, take of, ii. 377. 
Herschel, William, ii. 385. 
Hertford, Earl (afterwards Marquis) 

of, Johnson's letter, i. 389. 
Hervey, Hon. Henry, i. 183 n, 
Hervey, Mrs., i. 183 ; ii. 49, 91. 
Hesiod, i. 153. 
Hickman, Gregory, Johnson's letter, 

i. I. 
Highwaymen, i. 316 ». ; ii. 70, 313 «., 

347- 
Hill, Professor, i. 333 n. 

Hill, Mr. Joseph, i. 15 n. 



Hinchliffe, John, D.D., Bishop of 

Peterborough, ii. 148 «., 157 «., 163. 
Hinckley, Mrs., i. 133. 
Hitch, C, i. 35 «., 58-9. 
Hoadley, Rev. Dr. John, i. 186 i«. 
Hoare, Henry Merrick, ii. 361 if. 
Hoc age, i. 337. 
Ho<ky i. 53 If. 
HOCKLEY-IN-THE-HOLE, ii. 30. 

Hodgson, Brian, ii. 334 if. 
Hogarth, William, i 186 if. 
Holder, — , ii. 434. 
Holdernesse, fourth Earl of, i. 408. 
Holland, first Lord, ii. 337 if. 
Hollow AY, Mr. M. M., i. 10 «. 
HoLLYER, — , Johnson's letter,' i. 303. 
Home, John, i. 433. 
Homer, ii. 440. 
HooLE, John, i. 314; ii. 65, 85 «., 183, 

350-1, 363 «., 390, 39a, 39^, 434- 
HooLE, Rev. Samuel, ii. 349 m., 350, 

396 If., 414 If., 434. 
Hooper, — , i. 80 if. 
Hopkins, Benjamin, i. 408. 
Horace, quoted, Odes^ i. 186, 377; ii. 

78, 79, 255, 377 »• ; -5^1/., ii. 441 ; EpU., 

i. 346; ii. 17, 116, 339 If.; Ars, i. 

176. 
Horneck, Mrs., ii. 5, 178-9, 331. 
HoRNECKS, the, i. 331 M., 344; ii. 3i8if. 
Horseman, — , ii. 359, 363. 
Horsley, Dr. (Bishop of Rochester), ii. 

434. 
Hotham, Sir Richard, ii. 154, 178. 

House of Commons, election of 1768, 
i. 133-4, 137 ; purchase of seats, ii. 
iCi, 303-4; Inform, 385. 

Howard, Charles, i. 83, 104, 107. 

Howard, John, Lichfield Gaol, i. 163 n, ; 
York Gaol, 335 if . ; calls on Johnson, 

ii. 394. 

Howard, Mary, i. 83 if. 

Howell, James, quoted, i. 357 ». ; ii. 37, 
52 If. 

Hume, David, /rtW minister y i. 93 n,\ 
prices of com, 193 if. ; at Northaller- 
ton, 335 If.; house, 339 if.; Scottish 
poets, 3 30 If . ; Strahan an M .P., 300 n. ; 
at Bath, 393 if. ; letter from A. Mac- 
donald, 418 ; China-ware, ii. 35 if. 

Hummy ii. 75. 



456 



Index to 



Hunt, Edward and Joaeph. Johnson, Samuel. 



Hunt, Edward and Joseph, ii. 436. 

Hunter, Dr. William, ii. a6i, 339, 436. 

Hunter, Mrs., i. 87, 138 ». 

HuTTON, James, ii. 175. 

Hutton, William, Baskerville*s life, i. 
42 n.\ London pavement, 234 n,\ 
coaches, 324 ». ; workhonses, ii. 21 n.; 
silk-mills, 35 «. ; Journey to London^ 

430 «.» 433. 
Hyde, Justice, ii. 170 n, 

Hyder Ali, i. 241 n. 

Hymers, William, i. 39 ». 

Hypochondria, i. 358 «. 

I. 

Iceland, it 320 «. 

Ideay i. 297. 

Idleness, i. 71. 

IdleVf i. 24 If. 

IgnoramuSy ii. 387. 

Ilam, ii. 38. 

Illness, i. 141 n, 

niwiUer^ ii. 182 n. 

Impey, Sir Elijah, ii. 264 n. 

Improvement, in the mind, i. 362-5. 

Inappetencty ii. 327 «. 

Inchkeith, i. 230. 

Inch Kenneth, i. 279. 

India. See East India Company. 

Influence J i. 107 «. ; ii. 145 n. 

Inge, Mrs., ii. 325. 

Inge, William, ii. 325 n, 

Inimicaly ii. 314. 

Initiatory y ii. 403 n. 

Invasion, fears of, ii. 71 «., 103, 109, 

114, 120. 
Inverness, i. 241. 
Ion A (Icolmkill), i. 282. 
Ireland, i. 399 n. ; ii. 264, 340. 
Ireney i. 4, 11, 19 n.\ ii. 252 n. 
ISA, i. 246 n.y 290. 
Island, a prison, i. 256. 
Islington, ii. 88. 
Italy, i. 145; ii. 192 «., 389 n. 

J. 
Jackson, Cyril (Dean of Christ Church), 

i. 408. 
Jackson, Henry, i. 376, 378 ; ii. 20. 
Jackson, Humphrey, i. 192 «., 213. 
Jackson, Richard, Johnson's letter, ii. 349. 



Jacobites, English, i. 259 n. 

Jamaica, ii. 113, 125. 

James V, i. 265. 

James, John, i. 114 »., 323 n^ 361 «.; 
ii. 227 n, 

James, Robert, M.I>., Paars spinning 
machine, i. 6, 7 jf., 58 jr.; pills and 
powder, 8 »., 23 Jt., 52 n.\ JohniGo's 
instructor, 49 ». ; ' strange fellow,* 58 ; 
deep in wine, 210 ; anecdotes of him, 
211 «. ; Medical Dictionary ^ 338 «. 

Jebb, Sir Richard, M.D., iL 148, 245-^ 

355, 315 «• 
Jenkinson, Charles (first Earl of Iive^ 

pool), L 137 ; ii. 18 n, 

Jen n ens, Charles, i. 214. 

Jennings, Colonel, ii. 174 jt. 

Jews, i. 331 n. 

Jodrell, Richard Paul, ii. 133, 294, 

396. 
Johnson, D., i. 83 n. 

Johnson, Elizabeth (Dr. Johnsoo^s wife), 
Johnson's letter, i. 3 ; property, 14; 
lodgings, 20 ». ; grave, 61 j». ; ii 411, 
429; death, i. 81 n,\ ii. 209, 248 n.\ 
Johnson's regret for her, i. 369 n, 

Johnson, Mr. G. H., i. 19 ». 

Johnson, Michael (Dr. Johnson's lather), 
i. 83 n. ; ii. 49 n, 

Johnson, Nathanael (Dr. Johnsons 
brother), i. 83 «. ; ii. 237 ». 

Johnson, Samuel, absence of mind, L 
342 n, ; actors, i. 44 ». ; ^^gri Epke- 
tneris, ii. 424 n. ; air, love of fresh, ii. 
385 n. ; ancestors, i. 268 ; anonymous 
publications, i. 63 «., 80 n. ; appear- 
ance, i. 295 n. ; ii. 6 «., 328 ». ; appe- 
tite, ii. 389 ; Ashbonme, visits, i. 164, 
i75> i95» 340» 382 w.; ii. 26, 93, 233, 
412 ; associates of all ranks, ii. 414 «.; 
attendance required, i. 142 n.\ ii. 259 
n.\ attention shown him, ii. 369; 
autograph letters, prices ptaid for them, 
i. 2, 3, 6, 8, 26, 40, 52, 54, 66, 
69, 7o» 9i» "8, 148, 168, 207, 215, 
222, 284, 307, 322, 387, 412, 413; 
ii. 7, 71, 208, 246, 254, 287, 370, 409, 
433; Autographic memoranda, ii. 599 
n. ; ball, goes to a, ii. 232 ; Baltic 
expedition, ii. 30 ; Baretti's ybumey Ut 
Spain, i. 165 n.\ Bath, visits, i. 391 ; 



Letters of Dr. Johnson. 



457 



Johnson, SamneL 



belabours his confessor, ii. 314 n.\ 
Bible, reads through the, ii. 271 ; biogra- 
phers, i. 410 ».; ii. 6 n.\ Birmingham, 
visits, i. 135, 164, ao2, 225 »., 328; 

'^' 17* 55» 33S» 341; birth, i. 41 if. ; 
birthday, i. 250 ; ii. 33, 202, 332, 420 
If. ; bitter speeches, i. 72 ; bleeding, 
see below, health; books bomid by 
him, ii. 89 n.; Boswell attacked by 
him, ii. 65 n.; — security at the 
Temple, i. 316 ; bow to an azchbishop, 
ii. 150 #1. ; breakfasting in splendour, 
ii. 103 #1. ; bred a bookseller, ii. 89 ; 
Brighthelmstone, visits, i. 120, 155; 
ii. 58, 206, 273; brothers and sisters, 
»o> >• 7^ 378; »• 337; bust, ii. 59, 
62-3 ; calculation, love of, i. 243 n. ; 
"• 45) 331 » Cambridge, visits, i. 183 
n.\ ii. 13 If.; candidate for a master- 
ship, L 1-3 ; ii. 161 n. ; carelessness, 
i. 204 If. ; ii. 284 If. ; character drawn 
by himself, ii. 314; chemistry, i. 179, 
183 ; children, indulgent to, ii. 183 if. ; 
church attendance, ii. 227 it. ; clothes, 
i. 321, 322 ; ii. 39, 145 If., 220; college 
life, anecdotes of his, ii. 440; collo- 
quial barbarisms, ii. 36 ; composition, 
facility of, ii. 197 if . ; confesses his 
rudeness, i. 351 ; contraction of names, 
i 276 If. ; conversation, hungry for, 
ii. 419 If.; 'conversion,* ii. 385 if.; 
Cordelia's death, i. 11 if . ; corrects 
Robertson, i. 412; dates to letters, ii. 
139 If.; death-bed, ii. 327 if., 33a if., 
339 «-f 4H »•» 433; death, dread of, 
ii. 231, 327, 351, 369, 380, 384, 404; 
— mind calmer, ii. 423 ; debts, i. 19, 
20, 32-4, 28, 61, 75 If.; delicacies 
sent him, ii. 391 ; dictionary-making, 
i. 42 If., 191 If., 374 If. ; diet, i. 52 ; 
ii. loi If., 104, 113, 128, 135, 143, 
146-7, 164, 181, 184, 189, 242, 248 If., 

355* 314* 389* 424 *•• ; dinner-table, ii. 
1 25 If. ; drawn out, needs to be, ii. 392 
If. ; dreams felicities, ii. 32 it. ; driving 
the world about, ii. 397 if. ; Dublin 
degree, i. 123; etymology, i. 178 if.; 
eye-sight, i. 57 ; first love, i. 202 if. ; 
fox-hunting, i. 349 if.; ii. 25, 127 if.; 
France, trip to, i. 147 if., 368-9, 378, 
401 If., 402; il 272 n.\ freeman of 



Aberdeen, i. 235 ; French phrases and 
letters, i. 50 if., 150, 324, 355 if.; ii. 
179; friends, judging them, i. 218 if. ; 
— of his youth, i. 41, 369, 376, 388 if. ; ^ 
ii. 227 If.; fruit, ii. 34, 1 10, 400 ; funeral, 
"• 433-5 ; * gang,' i. 163 ; garden, ii. 
193, 307, 310 ; Garrick's funeral, ii. 
84 If.; genius, his, ii. 184; gloomy 
lessons, i. 339 if.; godfather to Lucy 
Thrale, i. 140 if., 153 ; ' good and 
clubable,' ii. 148 if.; good-breeding, 
ii. 136 If.; good-humour, ii. 183 it.; 
Gordon riots not mentioned, ii. 164 
If. ; great coat, i. 208 ; great chair, ii. 
78; green pease, ii. 400 if.; habita- 
tions, Edial Hall, i. 139 ».; Castle 
Street, 6 ; Strand, 8 ; Holbom, 16 ; 
Gough Square, 18, 41 it. ; Staple Inn, 
86, 88 If.; Gray*s Inn, 88; Inner 
Temple Lane, 90; Johnson's Court, 
124; Bolt Court, 390; Hampton 
Court, i. 389 M. ; handwriting, i. 61 
If.; HEALTH, ill, (1755), i. 45 ; (1768), 
140; (1769), 153; (1770), 158; (i770» 
171, 182; (1773), 305, 208, 219; 
(i774)» 298; (I775)» faintness, 322, 
351; (i776)> 403; (1778), ii. 76> 82; 
(1779), loi ; remission of convulsions, 
143 *' ; (1780), better than for twenty 
years past, 163 ; (1781), ill, 329, 233 ; 
(1782), 279, 281; \\*i%i), genua labant, 
289 ; paralytic stroke, 300 ; sarcocele, 
335 ; go^t, 338 ; (1784), ill, 365 ; reUef 
from dropsy, 384; 129 days confined, 
392; ill, 423, 429; death, 433; — bled, 
i- 45» 9i» 398; ii. 1-3, 88, 135, 177, 
343, 346, 351 n.y 365, 403 It. ; — strong 
physic taken, ii. 33, 76, 89, 93, loi, 
ii^> 355, 394, 300; — dread of opiates, 
ii- 367, 376, 383 ; effect of them, ii. 
437 ; — did not yield to illness, i. 378 ; 
hearth-broom, ii. 333 it.; home^ i. 139, 
141 it. ; hundred pounds made, ii 99 ; 
ignorance of character, i. 383 n, ; — 
of natural history, ii. 335 n, ; illiberal, 
ii. 167 If. ; ImpransuSy i. 3 ; inmates 
of his house, ii. 42 m. ; their quarrels, 
U. 70, 74-5, 77, 107, 123, 138; Italian, 
studies, ii. 417; Italy, proposed tour, 

i. 330 *•» 379> 384 «•» 388; ii. 192. 
199; Jack the Giant-killer, i. 135; 




»i 111! ■;2 



.*a 









-Ni.. i^ 



"M_ 



Jl »»1 X — ^ 









>) « , J* 1 .our-, i- *; T. 

''*'. li : ":i".r"i:-i. 'c- ".''1 .r^^. 

^^ - ■ i i 

i' ^- ■ - . • . - - - - . ■ -fc - - . 



1 



.r-:*^ 

'.-* 






:<o 



riW.'X V. •.•ic. . ;■-,:„. iix r . ^a.-- 
?//* . y*r:ii.'. \* V. :.*'.-«-iriL, :. y/) n. : 

if/7 i't'fl.f, .'".<. v.. ^*i »,. 70. 74. 2=^ 
w ; ;/y M;,* P*:;.T,'/.'*J, il. 1 79, 300. 

/JO /»,, 4iO ;/. ; print* of hib fricr.'is, i:. 



sat "" *"» * ' ^ zi. 

a;ve iL. :. ^^ rotji. -^ 
-nan. .. ip «. . 
7:: «. 1X3S niii 

' ~ '*^- -I- * r «. . V ia-S:?. I 

""!:«. — .ij*zci !x«rcsse. :>c «. : — 

TinJe. j_ 4r T. ; — 
: : J « : — :ii ittnijr — 

''- * - -t.:5 *. : w_Le'i '-jt--*i— ^ ■ '.*• 
— :-a— . z. -^r : wi_ =:. n 5 ,^ «< : 

',L :. 1:4 «.. 123 «_ ,^s. w-i^:^ 

yrA^^s, Sarai Dr. Johnsons metier . 
•Jirea: of cjecareil. L 19 «. ; Johnsons 
drtai o: her death, i. 20 ; ii, 2*09 « ; _ 
Icuers to her. L 7 s, 77-9 ; — inxkncy. 
i. 154 <•-; book-tiadc, i. 6S, S3 «': 
death, i. 7f-*7 ; birth, ii. 43-. 




Letters of Dr. Johnson. 



459 



JohnBon, Thomas Iiee, Arthiir. 



Johnson, Thomas (Dr. Johnson's consin), 

i. 154, 158-9, 30a; ii. 92. 
Johnson, Rev. William Samnel, LL.D., 

Johnson's letter, i. 209. 
Johnson, Mrs. (of Torrington), i. 94. 
Johnson, — (Dr. Johnson*s coosin), ii. 

194, ao6. 
Johnson, — (Reynolds's brother-in-law), 

i. 94». 
Johnston, W., i. 79 »., 80 «. 
Jones, Sir William, at University College, 

i. 113 »., 118 If.; election of 1780, ii. 

155, 164 ; Ode, 369 n. 
JORTIN, Rev. John, D.D., ii. 275. 
Journals, i. 362 ; ii. 37. 
Journey to the Western Islands of Scot- 
land, i. 248 »., 300 ; ii. 207. 
JowETT, Rev. Professor, ii. 257 n. 
Junius J ii. 108 n, 
Juvenal, quoted, ii. no n,, 226 n., 

304 «. 

K. 

Kangaroo, i. 241 n. 

Kearsley, George, ii. 226, 254. 

Keddlestone, ii. 35. 

Keith, Admiral Lord, ii. 394 n, 

Kelly, Hugh, ii. 17. 

Kbmble, John, ii. 345. 

Kennedy, Mrs., ii. 96. 

Kennedy, — , ii. 234. 

Kennicott, Rev. Benjamin, D.D., ii. 

77 ». 
Kent, Edward, Doke of, i. 414 n. 
Keppel, Mrs., ii. 173 n. 
Kilby, — , ii. 276 n. 
KiLMOREY, Loxd, ii. 351. 
King, William, D.C.L., i. 265 n. 
King, Hon. Mrs., i. 289 it. 
' King's Friends,' i. 137 n. 
Kingsburgh, i. 265. 
Kingston, Duchess of (Elizabeth Chnd- 

Icigh), i. 390 n. 

KiNSDERLEY, MrS., H. 34O. 

Kirwans, the Miss, ii. 173 n. 
Knapton, J. and P., L 25 «. 
Knowledge, ii. 386. 
Knowles, Mrs., i. 397 ; ii. 403 n. 
Knox, John, i. 231. 



La BruvI^re, i. 184. 



Labour, ii. 439. 

Lacerate y i. 212 n. 

Lade, Lady, i. 219 if., 348 n, ; ii. 28-9. 

Lade, Sir John, i. 275 if . ; ii. 28-9, 34, 

38, 191 If., 321 «., 372 If. 
Ladies' Charity School, i. 156; ii. 

334 «• 
Lady, i. 244 if. 

Lamb, Charles, Inner Temple Lane, i. 91 
If. ; Christ's Hospital, 303 if. ; Isling- 
ton, ii. 88 If . ; ' Onmiscient Jackson,' 
349 If. ; the wind, 416 if. 

Landor, Walter Savage, Needwood 
Forest, i. 165; contemplate , ii. 21 if. ; 
under the circumstances, 37 if. 

Langdon, — , ii. 45. 

Langley, Rev. W., i. 189, 336, 347, 
352 ; ii. 34, 269 If., 280 If., 282. 

Langton, Bennet, Captain of Militia, ii. 
71 If., 164; children, i. 393; ii 3a, 
35i» 317 ; domestic economy, i. 393-4 ; 
Drawing-room, at the, ii. 6 if. ; John- 
son, attends, ii. 305 ; — confessor, ii. 
314 If. ; — death, ii. 332 n, ; — visits 
him,ii. 315, 317* 319-^0,322; —Latin 
veises, ii. 391 if. ; — fnneral, ii. 434 ; 
mentioned, L 319 if., 320, 414; iL 2, 
146, 156 If. 

Langton, old Mr., i. 171 if. 

Langton, Mrs., ii. 40. 

Langton, Miss, Johnson's letter, i. 171. 

Last, the, ii. 48. 

Latin, study o^ i. 96-7, 108 ; few read it 
with ease, ii. 440 ; change in it, ji^. ; 
English writers of it, 441. 

Laurence, — , i. 396. 

Law, William, i. 31, 52 if. 

Lawrence, Mr. H. W., i. 91 m., 316 m. 

Lawrence, Miss, ii. 141. 

Lawrence, Thomas, M.D., ancestry, i. 
48 If. ; dying, ii. 265 ; death, ii. 299, 
301 ; Johnson's instructor, i. 49 if . ; 
— physician, i. 52, 298, 367 ; ii. i, 70, 
73» 76, 245 If., 246, 25iif.; 255 ; — com- 
panion, ii. 1 35 If., 295, 309 ; medical trea- 
tises, ii. 304; Thrale's illness, ii. 159 ; 
mentioned, i. 51, 208, 219, 318; ii. 22, 
67 If., 102, 134, 137, 186, 189. 

Lawrence, Sir Thomas, ii. 132 if. 

Leander, ii. 439. 

Lee, Arthur, i. 397. 



460 



Index to 



Iiee» IVathanael IijrtteltGiiy William Senry. 



Lee, Nathanael, i. 207. 

Lee, Robert £., i. 397 n, 

Lee, Thomas, i. 397 n, 

Lee, Aldeiman William, i. 397. 

Leek, ii. 49. 

Leland, Rev. Thomas, D.D., Johnson's 

letters, i. 123, 316. 
Lennox, Charlotte, i. 36, 55 n, ; ii. 115. 
Lbnthall, William, ii. 261 n. 
Letter-writing, ii. 52, 138, 193, 197, 

Levett, John, Johnson's letters, L 14, 
15, 16, 20 «., 28 ; — debt, 19. 

Levett, Robert, account of him, ii. 243- 
4 ; death, ii. 33 «., 290, 326 ; heirs, ii. 
^43 ) Johnson's doctor, ii. i ; — com- 
panion, ii. 295, 309, 357 If., 368, 414 
n. ; old age, ii. 187, 193 ; prudential 
intoxication, i. 406 n, ; qnarrels, ii. 70, 
75i 77» io7» 132 ; register of birth, ii. 
39; mentioned, i. 276, 284. 

Levy, — , ii. 151. 

Lewis XIV, i. 270 n, 

Lewis, Dean John, ii. 310 n.^ 383 n. 

Lewis, Dr., ii. 33, 107. 

Lewis, Mrs., ii. 310, 317 «., 383, 393. 

Lewis, W., M.B., ii. 303 n. 

Lewis, — , ii. 196. 

Libraries, i. 142-7. 

Lichfield, Amicable Society, i, 331, 
336 ; bills, i. 162 n,\ Borowcop Hill, 
i. 161 ; cathedral, i. 301 n.\ changes, 
i. 154, 162; city of philosophers, ii. 
53 «. ; conversation, i. 335 ; curfew, i. 
358 ; Evelina not heard of, ii. 234 ; 
gaol, i. 162 n, ; Green Hill, i. 363 ; 
Green Hill Bower, ii. 92 ; Jacobite, 
i. 259 n. ; Johnson's house, i. 19 n,\ 
Palace, i. 100 ; races, ii. 24, 25 ; rates, 
i. 162 ; Stow Hill, i. 160, 363 ; ii. 46 n. ; 
Three Crowns, i. 99. 

Life, its tediousness, i. 271; consists of 
little things, ii. 19 ; schemes, 361. 

Lilly lolly, ii. 44. 

LisGOW, Tom, i. 206. 

Literature in 1773, i. 210. 

Littleton, Sir Edward, ii. 161. 

Lives of the Poets ^ undertaken, ii. 13 ; ma- 
terials, ii. 13, 15, 156; progress of the 
work, ii. 68, 130, 132, 154, 175, 185-6, 
188-9, 191; assistance sought, ii. 188-9 ! 



finished, ii. 207; copies sold, ii, in; 

— given away, ii. 89, 220, 222, 287; 

— sent to the king, ii. 87 ; copy and 
proof-sheets, ii.197 ; dirty silyer scoored, 
ii. 46 n. ; index, ii. 80-1 ; Johnson not 
editor of the Poets ^ ii, 158, 275 ».; 

— kept in town, ii. 163 ; — payment, 
ii. 99 If., 208, 375 jf. ; — writes part 
at Lichfield, ii. 46 «. ; new edition, ii. 
3755 octavo edition, ii. a 18; panxUed, 
ii. 315- 

Lleweney Hall, ii. 8i j». 

Loch Lomond, i. 386. 

Loch Ness, i. 241. 

Locke, John, i. 131 ; ii. 306 ». 

London, extent,!. 53 «. ; pavement, 234; 

London Bridge, ii. 117 ; ii. 319 n. 
London Cuckolds ^ i. 185 jt. 
London shopkeeper, i. 233. 
Longman, T. and T., i. 25 «. 
Lord Mayors, ii. 57 n. 
LORT, Rev. Dr., i. 397 j».; a. 388 n, 
lx)UDOUN, Earl of, i. 291 ; Countess, ii, 
Lovelace f i. 22 ». 
Lowe, Mauritius, Johnson's letters, il 

66, 226, 242, 274, 305 ; mentioned, ii. 

303, 393* 338, 434- 
LowTH, Miss, ii. 327 «. 

LowTH, Robert, D.D., Bishop of Lon- 
don, i. 226 w.; ii. 187, 327 ». 

Lucan, Countess of, ii. 65, 105, m^ , 13^ 
121, 141, 146, 155, 160. 

Lucan, first Earl of, ii. 65, 105, 151, 153, 

369. 
Lucas, Charles, M.D., ii. 10 n. 
Lucas, Henry, ii. 9. 
Lucid interval^ ii. 377. 
Lucy, Thomas, i. 24. 
Lumley, James, i. 205 «. 
Lunardi, ii. 419. 

Lye, Rev. Edward, Johnson's letter i. 
121. 

Lysons, Samuel, ii. 403. 

Lyttelton, George, first Lord, Miss 
Boothby and Johnson, i. 46 n, ; death, 
288; Life, ii. 188, 196-8, 217 «. 

Lyttelton, Thomas, second Lord, i 
288. 

Lyttelton, William Henry (Lord West- 
cole), i. 177 ; ii. 20. See under West- 
cote, Lord. 



Letters of Dr. Johnson, 



461 



Macartney, Earl o£ Melmoth, William. 



M. 

Macartney, Earl of, ii. 143 m. 

Macaulay, Mrs., ii. 397 n, 

Macaulay, Thomas Babington (Lord 
Macanlay), Baskerville's editions, i. 4a 
if. ; Coote, Sir Eyre, i. 241 m. ; Fowke 
and Warren Hastings, i. 410 n. ; Fox*s 
East India Bill, ii. 358 n, ; Great-oncle, 
i. 340 If. ; Johnsonese, i. 251 n,\ Pittas 
Ministry, ii. 370 «., 375 n. ; Sir Charles 
Grandisony i. 22 if. 

Macbean, Alexander, wager, i. 30 ; 
starving, 319 ; no business, ii. 7^ ! 
index to the Lives , 81 ; admitted to 
the Charter-house, 213; death, 404. 

Macbeth, i. 239, 241. 

Macculloch, Dr., ii. 349 if. 

Macdonald, Sir Alexander (first Lord 
Macdonald), i. 238, 244, 252, 264, 285 
If., 290. 

Macdonald, Sir Archibald, L 418. 

Macdonald, Flora, i. 265. 

Macdonald of Kingsbnrgh, i. 274 if. 

Mackenzie, Lady Caroline, i. 59 if. 

Mackenzy, Mrs., i. 205 if. 

MACKINNON, Lachlan, i. 255 n, 

Maclean, Sir Allan, i. 280. 

Maclean, Dr., i. 275 if. 

Maclean, Miss, i. 260 if. 

MACLEOD, Colonel, i. 257, 268. 

Macleod, Flora, i. 257. 

MACLEOD, John. See Raasay. 

Macleod, Lady, i. 244-6, 267 ; ii. 235 if. 

MACLEOD, old Laird of, i. 249, 266. 

Macleod, Laird oC i. 244, 246, 259, 
262, 264, 266; Johnson's letter, 260. 

Macleod, Malcolm, i. 255, 259, 262, 
365. 

Macleod of Macleod, Miss, i. 245 m., 
289. 

Macmillan, Mr. Alexander, ii. 134 n, 

Macpherson, James, Johnson's letter, 

i- 307- 
Macpherson, Sir John, ii. 170 m. 

Macquarry of Ulva, i. 279. 

Macqueen, Rev. Donald, L 269 ». 

Macraes, The, i. 249. 

Madox, — , ii. 270. 

Maintenon, Madame de, ii. 179. 

Maisonfort, De la, Madame, ii. 179 n. 



Malmesbury, Hrst Earl of, i. 336 if. 

Malone, Edmond, Boswell's security, 
i. 317; Johnson's payment for the 
Lives, ii. 208 if. ; — roasting apples, ii. 
289 If . ; — relations, ii. 430 if . ; — funeral, 
iL 434 ; Piozzi's marriage, ii. 407 if. ; 
Spence's Anecdotes, ii. 133 if.; Supple- 
ment to Shtikespeare, ii. 141 if. 

Malt, price of, i. 194, 291. 

Maltsters, i. 174. 

Manning, Rev. Owen, i. 121 if. 

Mansfield, first Earl of, Clarendon 
trustee, i. 313 ; under all the circum- 
stances, ii. 37 If.; judge at Foote's 
trial, 56 If. ; Gordon riots, 167-8 ; 
meets Dr. Brocklesby, 437. 

Manucci, Count, i. 392-3, 395, 398. 

Manufactory, ii. 377 ». 

Marclew, — , L 154 If. 

Marie Antoinette, i. 369. 

Markham, William, D.D. (Dean of 
Christ Church, afterwards Bishop of 
Chester and Archbishop of York), i. 

3«3, 333, 377i 409 «•! 418 ; w. 150- 
Markland, Jeremiah, ii. 276. 

Marlborough, l 385. 

Marriage, 1. 102, 217. 

Married Women's Property Act, 

ii. 218 If. 
Marshall, William, i. 165-6 if. 
Marshalsea, i. 306. 
Marsigli, Dr., ii. 94. 
Martial, quoted, ii. 55 if. 
Mary I, ii. 437. 

Mary, Queen of Scots, i. 104 if. ; ii. 408. 
Marylebone Gardens, ii. 74 if. 
Mason, Rev. William, i. 317, 318 if. ; 

ii. 286 n, 
McuS'hcuse^ ii. 167 if. 
Mathias, — , i. 159; ii. 134. 
Matlock, i. 165. 
Matter of, i. 176 n. 

Mawbey, Sir Joaeph, i. 137 «., 333-4. 
Maxwell, Dr., ii. 298. 
Mayor, Professor John E. B., i. 10 if. 
Meagre, 1. 403 if. 
Measures not men, i. 11 if . 
Meat, prices of, i. 193 n. 
Mediterranean, i. 237 if. 
Mei, Cavalier, i. 294 if. 
Melmoth, William, ii. 148 if. 



462 



Index to 



Meroers, Company o£ Myddelton, Colonel. 



Mercers, Company of, Johnson's letter, 

ii. 390. 
Merry doings ^ ii. 116, 230. 
Metaphysical Distresses, ii. 353 n. 
Metcalfe, Philip, ii. 345, 388, 434. 
Meteors, ii. 334. 
Methodists, i. 136 «. ; ii. 138 «. 
Meyer, Doctor, i. 319. 
Meynell, Miss, i. 46 n. 
M'Ghie, Dr. William, ii. 364 «. 
Mickle, William Julius, i. 214, 433 ; 

ii. 400 »., 434. 
MiDDLETON, Earl of, i. 336 n, 
Middleton, Lady Diana, i. 336. 
MiDDLETON, Rev. Conyers, D.D., ii. 

95 «. 
Middleton, — , ii. 181. 

MiLBOURNE, Luke, ii. 69. 

Mill, Sir Thomas, ii. 1 33 n. 

Milly ii. 35 n, 

Millar, Andrew, i. 35 «., 37, 37 «., 63, 

89 ; ii. 61 ». ; Johnson's letter, i. 30. 
Miller, Lady, ii. 138 ti. 
Miller, Miss, L 133 ft. 
MiLLiKEN, Mr. W. E., i. 59 n, 
Milton, John, *Me miserable,' i. 185 n.\ 

early pieces, ii. 8 n. ; Life^ 68, 114; 

quoted, Paradise Losty i. 379 «. ; ii. 75, 

126, 329 ; SonfietSy ii. 233. 
Mind, its management, i. 105, 112, 189, 

293. 394* 375 ; "• 99. 102, 144, 165, 
265-6, 317 ; knowledge of it, i. 353 ; 
history of it, i. 362; improvement in 
it, i. 363-5 ; concentrated, ii. 278. 

Mind of, i. 314, 343 ; ii. 191. 

Ministry, Lord North's, i. 311, 344; 
ii. 177, 249; Coalition, ii. 358, 370; 
Pitt's, 374. 

Miscellany Poetns^ ii. 224 w. 

Modena, Duke of, ii. 339 n. 

Moli^re, quoted, ii. 51. 

MoNBODDO, Lord (James Burnet), i. 

233; ii. 149. 396 «. 
Monckton, Hon. Miss (Countess of 

Corke), ii. 151, 157, 252. 
Money, transmission of it, i. 77 n. ; tied 

up in trade, 218 ; great effect of it, 272 

n. ; scarce, ii. 87, 100, 120. 
Montagu, Mrs., charity, i. 87 «., 371 

n.\ ii. 64, 190; compared with Mrs. 

Thrale, ii. 153; described by Miss 



Barney, iL 133 n,\ Essay on Skakt- 

speare^ ii. 138 ; Johnson's letters, i 87- 

8, 295, 370-1 ; ii. 63-4, 336; — 

dropped, i. 37 a «. ; ii. 139 «., 353 «.; 

— reconciled, ii. 336, 340 ; pctrpiuriku, 

ii. 149; print, iL 70, 88; mentioned, 

i- 383, 391 ; ^' 24, 140-1, 14S «-, 

157 «•. 295. 
Montrose, i. 233. 

Moore, Edward, ii. 149. 

Moore, Dr. Norman, ii. 159, 339 «. 

Moore, Thomas, ii. 2^2 n. 

More, Hannah, Bos BUu^ ii. 390; B«s 
Bleu Society, ii. 136 n.\ best of the 
female versifiers, ii. 328 n, ; Johnson's 
admiration of her, i. 55 n. ; — drawn 
out, ii. 250 «. ; — at Mrs. Garrick^s, 
ii. 251, 294 ». ; — at Oxford, ii. 257- 
260; Ord, Mrs., ii, 144 ff., 146 «.; 
Vesey, Mrs., U. 88 «. ; Wheeler's death, 
ii. 327 w. ; mentioned , i. 239 n^ 392 
n, ; ii. 396 n. 

Moreton, John, i. 132 m. 

Morgan, Rev. Mr., IL 404 n, 

MoRiCE, Peter, ii. 117 «r. 

MoRisoN, Dr., i. 94, 

MORLANDS, ii. 49. 

Moss-trooper^ i. 248. 

MosTYN, John Meredith, ii. 51 n. 

MOUNTSTUART, Lord, i. 396 n. 

MoYSEY, Abel, M.D., ii. 133, 135. 

Muck, Isle of, i. 267. 

MuDGE, John, i. 93 n, ; ii. 338, 343. 

346. 
MuDGE, Thomas, i. 93 k. 

MuDGE, William, i. 93 n. 

MUDGE, Rev. Zachariah, i. 93 «. 

Mull, Isle of, i. 278. 

MuLSO, Miss. SeeCuAPONE. 

Alumm, ii, 87, 385. 

Murphy, Arthur, Thrale's friend, i. 12?. 

344 ; letter to Mrs. Thrale, 387 ». ; 

Footers Life, ii. 55; visits Johnson, 

313 ; mentioned, i. 31 3 n. ; iL 77, 396 n. 
Murray, John, ii. 18 «. 
Murray, — (Lord Henderland), i. 365 n, 
MusGRAVE, Mr. (afterwards Sir) Richaid, 

i. 399 n. ; ii. 294, 298, 373. 
Music lessons, ii. 148 n. 
Mutiny Act, i. 194 n. 
Myddelton, Colonel, iL 33 n. 



Letters of Dr. Johnson. 



463 



Kaim. 



Oxford. 



N. 

Nairn, i. 340. 

National Debt, i. 386 «. 

Neal, Fordyce & Co., i. 19a n, 

Neai, i. 333 n, 

Nesdwood Forest, i. 165. 

Nelson, Admiral, ii. 11 1 n. 

Nelson, Robert, ii. 89. 

NervouSy ii. 359. 

Nesbitt, Mrs., i. 319 »., 331 ; ii. 94 »., 
160. 

Newark, i. 334. 

Newbery, John, Johnson's letters, i. 33- 
4 ; mentioned, 69. 

Newcastle, i. 337, 330 «. 

Newdigate, Sir Roger, i. 137 ; ii. 155. 

Newgate, ii. 168-9. 

Newton, Sir Isaac, ii. 335 n, 

Newton, Rev. John, ii. 385 n. 

Newton, Thomas, D.D., Bishop of 
Bristol, i. 94 n., 306 n. ; ii. 30 n. 

Newton, — , i. 84 «. ; ii. 30. 

Nicholls, Frank, M.D., ii. 401. 

Nichols, John, Johnson's letters, ii. 68, 
80, 81, 1 30-1, 158-9, 180, 195-7, 305, 
318, 330, 341, 373, 375, 381, 387, 
431; — Lives, ii. 133 «., 138; — 
Kawibler in Russian, ii. 377 n, ; — 
funeral, ii. 434 ; Anecdotes, ii. 374 ; 
History of Hinckky, ii. 381. 

Nicholson, Miss, ii. 405 n. 

NICOL, George, ii. 434, 438. 

NiTiKiN, Badlitis, ii. 377 is. 

Noah's Ark, ii. 333. 

NOLLEKENS, Joseph, ii. 59, 63 »., 69. 

NoRRis, — , ii. 3i8. 

North, Frederick, Lord (second Earl of 
Guilford), Conciliatory Propositions, 
i. 311 j». ; expenses of war, 386 ». ; 
Almanac Bill, ii. 76 n. ; Gordon riots, 
166 M., 167 n^ 17011.; Ireland, 36411. 

North Pole, i. 310. 

Northallerton, i. 335. 

NoRTHCOTE, James, Abington, Mrs., i. 
316 ». ; Cumberland the dnunatist, iL 
I II ». ; Jack the Giant-killer, i. 135 ». ; 
* Jessamy Bride,' i. 344 n, ; Lowe's 
picture, ii. 393 ». ; Opie, ii. 330 n, ; 
Reynolds, introduced to. i. 93 «f. ; — 
differenoe with his sister, ii. 84 n. ; 



Reynolds's, Miss, oil paintings, ii. 

33711. 
Northumberland, first Duke of, i. 

157 «., 338, 414. 
Norton, Sir Fletcher (Baron Grantley), 

i. 116 n, 
Norton, — , i. 333, 406. 
Nuncomar, i. 410 n, ; ii. 363 n,, 389 n, 

O. 

Odyssey, quoted, ii. 440. 

OfficiousnesSy ii. 357. 

Offley Place, i. 393 n. 

Ogle. Mrs., i. 88. 

Oglethorpe, General, i. 343 n., 393. 

Old age, i. 401 n, ; ii. 313. 

Old Bailey, ii. 65. 

Omont, Mr. H, ii 410 n. 

Opie, John, ii. 330. 

Opinions, i. 364. 

Oppian, ii. 410. 

Orchards, ii. 30 n. 

Ord, Lord Chief Baron, i. 339. 

Ord, Mrs., ii. 144, 146, 149, 179, 183. 

Orkney, Countess of, ii. 81 n. 

Orrery, fourth Earl of, ii. 196 ii. 

Orrery, fifth Earl of, i. 36 ; ii. 196. 

OsBORN, Mrs., i. 306 n., 358 n, 

Otho, i. 361. 

OTooLE, Arthur, i. 304. 

Otway, — (a schoolboy), i. 314. v 

Oughton, Sir Adolphns, i. 339. 

OVERSTONE, Lord, 1. ID n. 

Ovid, quoted : Ars Amat., ii. 34 w., 181 ; 
Fast., i. 163 ; Her,, i. 130 ; ii. 79 ; 
Afeta, i. 197, 336 ; ii. 48, 96 if., 339, 
367 ; TristA, 130, the uniformity of the 
sun (? sea), ii. 335 ; compared with 
Virgil, ii. 440. 

Owen, Henry, ii. 410 n, 

Owen, Miss, ii. 4, 5 n., 134 n., 183 n., 
184, 189. 

Oxford, amusements, i. 330; Angel 
Inn, ii. 336; Balliol College, i. 133 
n. ; Bodleian, i. 43 n. ; ii. 77, 433 ; 
caution, i. 114 n.; Christ Church, 
i. 418-430; Clarendon Laboratory, 
i. 309 n.; Clarendon Press, i. 115 n., 
309 n,; ii. 13111. ; climate, ii. 358 n, ; 
coaches, i. 143 n. ; coffee-houses, i. 
419; degrees by diploma, i. 138 n., 



464 



Index to 



313 n. ; election of 1768, i. 137 ; — of 
1780, ii. 155 ; expenses of an under- 
gradnate, i. 114, 418; Gentlemen 
Commoners, t 418 ; Jesns Collie, ii. 
257 »., 261 n. ; Lincoln College, ii. 
16 n. ; Long Vacation, i 361 ; iL 227 ; 
mansion of the liberal arts, iL 53 ; 
morning chapel, L 323, 420 ; New Inn 
Hall, i. 132 ; Oriel College, i. 135 ; 
Pembroke College, Johnson*s cantion- 
money, L 1 14 ». ; — studied there, i. 
402 ; — and H. More visit it in 1782, 
ii. 258 ; — visits it in 1784, ii. 400 n, ; 
— portrait, ii 259 n.\ — Bottery books, 
ii. 458 ; Queen's College, L 114 m., 323 
n. ; ii. 227 1»., 377 u, ; RaddifTe Library, 
iL 77 M. ; Riding-School, L 309 «r., 323, 
327, 329, 349, 377 ; scholastic ignorance, 
ii. 16 ; * /hirds,' L 1 14 ; University Col- 
lege, L 113, 323, 420; Workhouse, ii. 
21 If. 

P. 

Page, Francis, i. 137; iL 155 «. 

Page, Miss, i. 95. 

Pain, i. 141. 

Palgrave, — , ii. 256 n. 

Palladio, Andrew, ii. 325 n. 

Palmers, the Miss, ii. 85 n. 

Palmer.st(jn, second Viscount, ii. 313 n. 

Pannartz, ii. 438. 

Pantheon, i. 337 n. 

Paoli, General Pascal, Johnson dines 
with him, i. 315, 392 ; ii. 65, 107, 
389 «. ; — loves to dine with him, 
ii. 292 ; — funeral, ii. 434 ; Boswell 
lodges at his house, i. 317. 

Paracelsus, ii. 53. 

Paradise, John, L 314 ; ii. 2, 183, 250, 

305» 325-6, 396, 434- 
Paradise, Mrs., L 314 n. 

Parents, i. 217, 336 n. 

Parker, Rev. Mr., ii. 46 tt. 

Parker, Sackville, ii. 228, 258. 

Parnell, Thomas, i. 248. 

Farter re y ii. 22 n. 

Participle present, i. 384 n. 

Passage y ii. 257. 

Patriots, ii. 363 n. 

Patten, Rev. Dr. Thomas, Johnsons 

letter, ii. 224. 



Paul, Dr., L 6 «- 

Paul, Lewis, Johnson's letters, L 6, 8, 

45» 52, 54* 58-9* 65-7. 69-70 ; <iM^ 
125 ; letter to the Duke of Bed£offd,4i7. 

Faymistress, iL 419. 

Payne, Mr. E. J., L 11 «. 

Payne, John, iL 363 n^ 364 it., 411, 

421-2,428-9. 
Pearce, 2^achary, Bishop of Rochester, 

L34«. 
Pearson, George, L 85 «. 
Pearson, Rev. John B., i. 85 «f. ; iL 8(, 

382. 
FeasCy ii. 181 n, 
Pell6, Mrs., ii. 378, 399. 
Pembroke, tenth Earl of, L 396 n. 
Pennick, Rev. Richard, Johnson's letter, 

i- 133. 
Pepys, Sir Lncas, ii. lod, 184, 209 m^ 

315 «•» 386 n, 

Pepys, Samuel, ii. 136 is. ; 341 n. 

Pepys^ William Wellcr, ii. 136, 157,183, 
306. 

Percy, Mrs., i. 90, 414 n, 

Percy, Thomas, D.D., Dean of Carlide, 
afterwards Bishop of Dromore, Johnson's 
letters, L 89, 91, 156, 414 ; Reliquis^ L 
89 n. ; ii. 328 n. ; Vicarage, L 121 n. ; 
sermon, 157 «. ; Johnson in Sky, 285 #».; 
Chaplain to George III, 414 n. ; men- 
tioned, i. 227 ; ii. 70 »., 399 «f. 

Ferequitaie^ ii. 178. 

Perkins, — , superintendent of Thrale*s 
Brewery, i. 398, 401 n, ; ii. 199 ; aims 
at a partnership, iL 213-4, 3'6> 2197 
222; Gordon riots, ii. 171 »., i»8; 
robbery, ii. 347 ; health, ii. 48 «., 238, 
254 n. ; Johnson's letter, ii. 222 ; men- 
tioned, L 211 «. ; iL 100, 145 If., 151 »., 
152 «., 212, 352. 

Perks, Thomas, i. 14. 

Pero Grulla, i. 180 «. 

FersiuSy quoted, i. 64 n. ; ii. 226 n. 

Petrus de Maximis, ii. 43S. 

Petticoat Government, ii. 141. 

Peyton, — , i. 319, 385. 

Philips, Ambrose, ii. 180, 325. 

Phillidor, F. a. D., iL 80 «. 

Phipps, Captain Constantine (Baion 
Mulgrave), i. 210, 293. 

Physic, profession of, ii. 2 1 n. 



Letters of Dr. Johnson. 



465 



FhyiicaL Printing House Square. 



Physical^ i. 75 ». 

Physiognomy, ii. 343. 

Piozzi, Gabriele, death, ii. 37 m. ; gentle- 
man by birth, 160 n,\ Johnson's 
mention of him, 238, 340, 251, 368 n., 
406-7 ; hastens to England, 40 x »., 
405 If.; charges against him, 408 n. 
See also under Mrs. Thrale, husband. 

Pirates, case of two, ii. 173. 

Pitt, R., i. 403 ». 

Pitt, William. See Chatham, Earl of. 

Pitt, William (the son), motion for 
Reform, ii. 285 n, ; ministry, 370 if., 

374- 
Plato, L 374 ; ii. 88. 

Pleasure, preconceived, i. 339. 

Pleiades, i. 166. 

Plumb, Fanny, i. 219 ». 

Plunkett, — , ii 122 If. 

PococK, Lewis, i. 307. 

POLHILL, Nathaniel, ii. 154. 

Polish oats, I 352, 354. 

Political PamphlciSj iL 308. 

Polwhele, Rey. Richard, ii. 330 u. 

PoLYBius, i. 115 Ii. 

PoMFRET, John, iL 185 If. 

Pompadour, i. 80. 

Pompous, i. 236 If. 

Pope, Alexander, coadjutors in his Homer, 
ii. 156 ; Miscellanies, 158 if., Life, 
196-7 ; quoted : Dunciad, ii. 93 if. ; 
Elegy, 9ai,,VL 327 ; Eloisa,&ic, L 281 ; 
Epitaphs, ii. 195 if. ; Essay on Man, 
ii. 2 24 If., 238, 244, 393 ; Moral Essays, 
ii* 303 ; Odyssey, ii. 50 if. ; Rape of the 
Lock, ii. 320 If. ; Sat. and Epist,^ i. 
248 If. ; ii. 51 n., 157 if., 178 if. 

PoRSON, Richard, Posterity, ii. 52 m. ; 
Markland*s house, 276 n,\ Charles 
Bumey, 396 if. 

Port-wine. i. 50 n. 

Porta, Baptista, ii. 388 n, 

Porteous, Captain, i. 25 if. 

Porter, Captain, i. 96. 

Porter, Harry, i. 15 «. 

Porter, Lucy, elder brother*s heir, i. 
98 ; younger brother's death, ii. 348, 
351 ; Hammond on the Psalms, i. 357 ; 
ii. 225 n,', 'hoary virginity,* i. 129; 
house, i. 85 If., 9(5 if., 99, 358 ; ill, 
i. 328-9, 331 ; ii. 330, 233 ; Johnson's 

VOL. II. 11 



affection for her, i. 51 if. ; — improved, 
i. 176 ; — mother, i. 75-87 ; — presents 
to her, i. Ill ; ii. 135 ; — Prologue, 
ii. 17 ; — reception, i. 154, 173, 180-1, 

184, I9i> 34i» 359; ii- 228, 232; 
— letters, i. 18, 76, 78, 81-7, 90, 92, 
96, 98-9, III, 125, 127, 138, 148, 
n^> 367 ; ii. 59» 62» 83, 86, 129, 
134. 308, 348, 381. 395; 'Mrs.' 
Porter, i. 367 if. ; present from Mrs. 
Thrale, i. 358 ; temper, i. 335 ; men- 
tioned, i. 5, 13, 15 ; ii. 92, 185. 

Porter, — (Lucy Porter's second 
brother), i. 139 «., 159 ; ii. 134, 348. 

Porter, Mrs. (the actress), i. 44 ; ii. 344. 

PoRTEUS, Beilby (Bishop of Chester and 
of London), i. 321 if. ; ii. 234, 250, 
278 If. 

Post, general post, L 76 if. ; Aberdeen, 
333 M- ; Sky, 244 ; Mull, 278 ; Oxford, 
310, 312, 325 ; Lichfield, 332 if., 359 ; 
Brighton, ii. 41 if., 126, 211 if. ; Bath, 
211; postage, i. 71, 78 if., 137 n,, 
161 If. ; franks, ii. 19, 94 if., 123 if., 

389. 
PosT-CHAiSE, i. 328 ; ii. 100. 
Posterity, ii. 51. 
Pott, — , a surgeon, ii. 339, 34i-4» 

346-7. 
Powell, — , ii. 298 if. 

Practising and teaching, ii. 235 n. 

Prayers, ii. 290. 

Premier, i. 92 if. 

Pretender, ii. 161 n. 

Pretender, the Old, i. 13 i». 

Pretender, the Young, invasion of 

England, i. 227 if., 247; ii. 50 nr, 

joined by Laird of Raasay, i. 258 ; 

wanderings, i. 255, 265 ; meanness, 

265 If. ; designation proper for him, 

ii. 161 If. 
Price, Rev. John, ii. 77 «. 
Priestley, Dr. Joseph, ii. 362 n. 
Prijean, Mrs., i. 205 n. 
Prime Minister, i. 92 n. 
Prince of Wales (afterwards George 

IV), his preceptors, i. 408 ; ii. 149 if. ; 

Mrs. Sheridan, ii. 252 ; Royal Academy 

dinner, 393. 
Printing, i 146. 
Printing House Square, ii. 272 n. 

h 



I 



466 



Index to 



Prior, Sir James. Biohard 1. 



Prior, Sir James, i. 350 n. 

Prior, Matthew, Life, ii. 130, 132; 

quoted, i. 352 ; ii. 31. 
Prisons, Lichfield, i. 162 ». ; York, 225 ; 

Marshalsea, 306 ; London prisons bnmt, 

ii. 168-170. 
Problcmaiiccdy ii. 57. 
Proby, Dean, ii. 24. 
Prometheus, i. 201. 
Prophecy by action, ii. 204. 
Prowse, Miss (afterwards Mrs. Rogers), 

Johnson's letters, ii. 193, 206, 219, 256, 

378 ; her answer, 379 n. 
Prujean, — , ii. 83. 
PsALMANAZAR, Geoigc, ii. 433. 
PuGKT, — , ii. 274 n. 
Pulsation, ii. 369. 
Purse, — , ii. 173 n. 
Put by J i. 149 n. 

Q. 

Queensberrv, Dowager Duchess of, i. 
309 «• 

R. 
R — , Mr., ii. 199. 

Raasay, Isle of, i. 244, 254, 257, 263-4. 
Raasay, Lady, i. 257. 
Raasay, Laird of, (John Macleod), i. 

256-9> 318. 
Rambler^ i. 17 «., 29 «., 63 n.\ ii. 296, 

.0/ / • 

Ramsay, Allan, ii. 65, 106-7, 146, 149. 
Ramsay, John, of Ochtcrtyre, i. 234 «., 

244 //., 277 ;/. 
Ranijy, John, i. 4 n. 
Kanelagii, i. 306 «. 
Rann, John, ii. 63 n. 
Kas^e/as, i. 79, 87 ;/. ; ii. 372 w., 408 //. ; 

in Italian, i. 294; French, i. 334//.; 

Russian, ii. 377 «. 
Ravenscrokt, Edward, i. 185 w. 
Rawmnson, Dr., ii. 274. 
Reading and writing, ii. 294 n. 
Reed, Isaac, ii. 363 n. 
Rees, Rev. Abraham, D.D., i. 374 n. 
Reformation, i. 74. 
Regatta, i. 336-9, 343. 
Rejuvetusccncy^ ii. 56. 
Relation^ ii. 371 //. 
R eh' (/lies y i. 253 //. 



Remembered, pleasure of being, i. 
209. 

Reprehenunyj ii. 23a. 

Resolution^ ii. 99 it. 

Restes, i. 401. 

Review f ii. 236 it. 

Revolution Club, i. 329 it. 

Reynault, Francis, i. 191 it. 

Reynolds, Frances, c onv eisatiope, il 
179; difiference with her brother, n. 
84 «•> 397 ; Johnson's letters, L 93, no, 
389* 39i» 407. 411 ; ii- 84, 100, 107, 
179, 221, 223, 249, 337, 346,366,395, 
397 ; — I letter to, i. 407 ». ; — por- 
trait, ii. 179, 300, 327; lodgings, 0- 
85; *Mrs.' Reynolds, i. 411 ».; oil- 
paintings, ii. 327 n.\ Paris, ^iats, L 
150 «. ; — pictures bonght there, "i 
221 ; portrait of Miss Williams, n. 
335 «•; *Renny,' ii. 113 «., 131, joi: 
voyage proposed, i. lion.; writiDjs. 
ii. 180, 223, 249, 395, 398 ; mcntioDed. 
i. 206; ii. 62, 251. 

Reynolds, Sir Joshna, Barry^s attack, i 
293 ; chariot, ii. 85 n. ; Crabbe, the 
poet, ii. 287 «., 288 ; Dyer's pomaiL 
ii. 108 «. ; Goldsmith's epitaph, 1.^7: 
Gordon Riots, ii. 167 »., 16S ». ; boose 
at Richmond, i. 400; ii. 201 n.\ 
Johnson's executor, ii. 407 n. ; — 
dines with him, ii. 325-6 ; — dnwi 
out, u. 439 ; — funeral, ii. 434-5 : 

— indebted to him, i. 76 «. ; — let- 
ters, ii. 280, 286-7 ; — Lives cf thi 
Poets, ii. 189, 287 ; — portraits. iL 
62 n., 70, 74, 259 n.; Lawrence. 
Thomas, ii. 132 «. ; Literary Club. ii. 
312 «. ; Lowe's picture, ii. 293 w.: 
Mason's Epistle, ii. 2S6 ; nieces iL 
S5 n. ; portrait of Archbishop of Tuam, 
ii. 326 n. ; Rasselas, i. 79 «. ; Ropl 
Academy, ii. 250 «., 294, 393 i.; 
sister, difference with his, ii. 84W.] 397 : 

— oil-paintings, ii. 327 «. ; StreathMU 
portraits, i. 232 «. ; voyage, i. no ».; 
mentioned, i. 94, 12a «., 206; ii. 1.4. 
65, 66, iiiw., 113, 116, 146, 149, 1S6, 
318 n.y 335 «•» 369. 

Rhenish, i. 52 «. 
Rice, Mrs., i. 219 n. 
Richard 1, i. 74. 



Letters of Dr. Johnson. 



467 



Biohardson, BamueL Scotland and the Scotch. 



Richardson, Samacl, Ciarissa, i. ai «., 
23 «., 35, 395 «. ; Sir Char Us Grandi- 
son, \. 2i n.j 34 H. ; Dartmoath, Lord, 
ii. 391 ».; Dublin * pirates/ i. 1 3 ».; flat- 
tery, love of, ii. 43 n. ; * honest Joseph,' 
"• 75 » Johnson's letters, i. 21, 33-4, 
57i <5i ; — neighbour, ii. 295, 309 ; 
Mulso, Miss, ii. 141 ; * winding,* ii. 43. 

Riches, effect of, ii. 394 n. 

Rider's British Merlin, ii. 76. 

Ritchie, D., i. 358 n, 

RiTTER, Joseph, i. 241 »., 285 n. 

RiVAROL, i. 150 n, 

RiviNGTON, John, Johnson's letter, i. 
168. 

Rizzio, David, i. 228. 

Robert of Doncaster, i. 224. 

Roberts, G., i. 145 n. 

Robertson, Rev. William, D.D., John- 
son at Edinburgh, i. 228 ; — corrections, 
412 ; downed y ii. 73 n. 

Robinson, Rev. Hastings, ii. 18 n. 

Robinson, Henry Crabb, ii. 149 «. 

Robinson, Rev. R. G., ii. 18 «. 

Robson, — , ii. 217-8. 

Rochefoucauld, ii. 54, 421. 

Rochester, ii. 319. 

Rockingham, Marquis of, ii. 261 m., 
264 ». 

Rogers, Dr. John, ii. 353 n, 

Rogers, Rev. J. M., ii. 194 «., 378 //., 

379 w. 
Rogers, Mrs. Sec Prows e. 
Rogers, Samuel, i. 288 n. 
Rolliad, i. 333 n, 
Roman Catholics, i. 264, 401 //. ; 

ii. 166-8. 
Rome, i. 343 «. 
RoMiLLY, Sir Samuel, i. 226 ». 
ROONEY, John, i. 123 n. 
Rose, Dr., ii. 325. 
Rothes, Lady (B. Langton's wife), i. 

172 ; ii. 32 «., 36 «., 251. 
Rothes, Lady (wife of Sir I.ucai Pepys), 

iL 36 M., 251. 
Rousseau, i. 263 n. 
Rout, ii. 59 «. 
Raw, ii. 239. 
RowE, Nicholas, quoted, ii. 32, 136, 139 ; 

^■*fiy T33 «•» 140 J poems, 158. 
Royal Academy, CadcU printer t«> it, 

H 



ii. 61 n. ; Johnson at the dinner (1780^, 
146, 150; (1782;. 250; (1783 , 292-4 ; 

''7«4)» 39a-3»4a3. 
RUDI), Mrs., i. 395, 399 n. 

RuFFHEAD, Owen, ii. 196. 

Ruffles, ii. 6 n. 

Ruggle, George, ii. 387. 

Russia, ii. 377. 

Rustication, ii. 320. 

Ryi^nd, John, Johnson's letters, i. 56, 

412,413; ii. 7, 411, 419, 421-2, 428; 

— funeral, ii. 434 ; Ivy Lane Club, ii. 

358, 363. 
Rymer, Thomas, ii. 69, 248. 

S. 

Saint- Fond, Faujas, i. 223 ». 

Saint Martin, ii. 192. 

Sale, George, ii. 149 n., 432. 

Salisbury, ii. 328, 342. 

Salisbury, first Marquis of, ii. 157 «. 

Salter, Rev. Dr. Samuel, ii. 364 n. 

Salushury, Rev. G. A., ii. 27 n, 

Salusbury, John, i. 128 «. 

Salusbury, I^dy, ii. 391 n. 

Salusbury, Mrs., Thrale's letter, i.98 n. ; 
Johnson's letter, 128; — feelings to- 
wards her, 196 n. ; house robbed, 163, 
165 ; loan to Thrale, 192 m. ; ill, 149, 
172, 180, 195, 199, aoo, 203, 211-4, 
216-8, 220! ; epiUph, 323, 327, 328. 

Salusbury, Miss (Mrs. Thrale), i. 98 n. 

Salusbury, SirThomat, i. 193, 195, 198, 
277, 289, 292 ; ii. 391 «. 

Salute, i. 265 n, 

Sandys, George, i. 367. 

Sastres, Francesco, ii. 246, 279, 434; 
Johnson's letters, ii. 414, 416, 418, 425, 

437. 
Savage life, i. 233, 263. 

Savile, Sir George, ii. 168. 

Saxby, — , ii. 21 «. 

Sayer, — , i. 406. 

ScARSDALE, first Baron, I 1S9 »., 347 ; ii. 

35 »M 394 ». 
Scholars, dedications to, ii. 225. 

SCHVVELLENBERG, MlS., ii. 5 n, 

Scotland and the Scotch, abused, i. 
224 A. ; beggars, i. 240; cabbages, L 
235 ; expense t)f travelling, i. 271 ; fees, 
i. 235; (joidon riots, ii. 166, 176; 

h 2 



468 



Index to 



SooUand and the Scotch. Shelbunie, Sari o£ 



green pease, ii. 400 n.\ knives and 
forks, i. 372 M. ; names of gentlemen, 
i. 256; plaids, i. 234; scenery, i. 250 ; 
slK)es, i. 235, 239 ; trees, i. 238, 242 ; 
turnips, i. 277; worse England, i. 317 
ft. Highlands: bag-pipes, L 270; 
boats, 264; books, 255, 267; bread, 
249, 259, 272 ; cattle, 275 ; dans, order 
of, 280; crops, 274; custom-houses, 
271; dress, 274; emigration, 263; 
estates, 266 ; — rents raised, 247 ; fu- 
nerals, 282 n.\ houses, 251, 260, 273; 
knives, 272; meals, 271-3; ministry, 
269 ; roads, 242 ; sea, 254; silver, 257 ; 
singing-birds, 251 ; snuff, 249 ; uniform, 
250; weather, 274, 286; whisky, 273; 
wild looks of natives, 249. 

Scots Magazine, i. 25 n, 

Scott, John (first Earl of Eldon), Univer- 
sity College, i. 113 «., 312 «. ; spelling 
of his name, 366 n.\ Gordon riots, 
ii. 169 w. ; house in Gower Street, 
193 n. 

Scott, Mrs., i. 219 ». 

Scott, Sir Walter, Miss Seward, i. io«.; 
Scotch houses, 260 n. : smuggling, 271 
n. ; clans, 280 n. ; Miss Bumey, ii. 

355 «• 

Scott. Dr. William (Lord Stowell), Uni- 
versity College, i. 113 «., 311 «., 420; 
election of 1780, ii. 155, 164; Gordon 
riots, 169 ; Johnson's letter, 288 ; — 
executor, 407 n. ; — funeral, 434 ; men- 
tioned, i. 138 «., 366. 

ScRASE. — , i. 348 «., 395 ; ii. 56, 78, 1 1 1, 
115, 119, 127, 129, 176, 183, 185, 189, 
217-9. 

Scrimshaw, Charles, ii. 430. 

Scrupulosity^ ii. 144 ». 

Sculptures^ i. 145 n. 

Seaforth, last Earl of, i. 59 n. 

Secker, Archbishop, i. 121 n. 

Security^ ii. 162 n. 

Sedgwick, — , i. 376. 

Seignelai, Marquis of, i. 270 n. 

Selwin, — , ii. 106 n, 

Selwyn, George, i. 313 «. ; ii. 168 n. 

Seneca, ii. 93 n. 

Sensibility y i. 385 n. 

Servants, i. 391 n. 

Seton, Sir Menry Wilmot, ii. 84 //. 



SETTI.EIfENT, Uw of, U. 297. 

Seward, Anna, juxx>i2nt of her, L lo s., 
139 ^v 340 **• \ Johnson and Dodd, iL 
18 !».; — LhfcSf 46 ». ; menticned, 
ii. 232, 397 ff. 

Seward, Sarah, i. 159 n. 

Seward, Rev. Thomas, i. 10 it., 68 a., 
185. 

Seward, William, valetudinarian, L 346; 
ill) ii- 33; visits Edinburgh, 35 a.; 
Johnson's bow, 150 ». ; goes abroad, 
298 ; attacks Piozzi, 353 n.\ JchoasM^ 
foneral, 434 ; mentioned, L 398 ; xi 94, 
133. 137 ''•.436. 

Shaftesbury, third Earl of, i. 6 » . 

Shakespeare, William, cast of Usboe, 
i. 331 ; Ifenry VIII, ii. 345 n. ; John- 
son*s edition : subscribers, i. 64, 68,73, 
117 «., 123-4 •» — ProposalSy i. 68 a.; 

— Garrick*s suffrage sought, i. 11;; 

— French translation, i. 150 «.; —ad- 
ditions, l 168-9 ; Merchant of Vema^ 
ii. 346 «.; his merit, ii. 440; quoted: 
Cymbeline, ii. 334 ; Hamiet^ i. 186, 334, 
398; ii. 29, 255; I Henry IV, VL^, 
92 «., 125, 140; 2 Henry I Vy L 180 a. ; 
ii. 41; ^ Henry VI, i. 177; ffgnrj 
VI II, L 271 ; King John, i. 353 a.; 

Julius Ctesar, ii. 41 ; Love's Lahcmri 
Lost, ii.i8 ; Macbeth, ii. 414 «.; A/tasun 
for Measure, ii. 368 «. ; Merry Hives, 
Sec, ii. 55 ; Midsumnur A^ighfs Dteam, 
ii. 276 «.; Much Ado, 8cc, i. 348; 
Richard II, \\. 140 »-, 217 i«. ; Richard 
III, ii. 353 n. ; Twelfth /ilight, ii. 201 ; 
Winter^ s 7 ale, ii. 176 n. 

Shakespeare, aracehorse, i. 341 ; ii. 43. 

Shanvelle [?], Rev. Mr., ii. 434. 

Sharp, Samuel, ii. 329 n. 

Sharp, — , ii. 434. 

Sharpe, Mrs., i. 229 n. 

Sharpe, Miss, ii. 251. 

Shaw, Rev. Williann, i. 41 j «, 

Shaw, —, i. 397 ; ii. 193. 

Sheffield, Lord and Lady, ii. 210 a. 
252. 

Shelburne, second Earl of, account of 
persecution of Catholic priests, i. 402 
//. ; prime minister, ii. 261 n., 269; 
attacks Burke, 263 ; knew Johnson, ih. ; 
mentioned, ii. 81 «., 349 u. 



Letters of Dr. Johnson, 



469 



Bhelbume, Dowager Countess o£ Stonehenge. 



Shelburne, Dowager Countess of, ii. 

81 n, 
Shelley, Sir John, Bart., ii. 44 n.y 73, 

20a. 
Shelvock, — , ii. 432. 
Shenstone, William, i. 89 n. ; ii. 217 »., 

259 «. 
Sheridan, Mrs., ii. 252. 
Sheridan, Richard Brinsley, ii. 161 »., 

252 n, 
Sheward, Mrs., ii. 310, 314. 
Shipley, Jonathan, D.D., Bishop of St. 

Asaph, i. 400; ii. 146, 149, 157, 250. 
Shrewsbury, Duchess of, i. 151 n. 
Sibbald, Sir Robert, i. 362 n. 
Siberian barley, i. 352. 
Siddons, Mrs., ii. 345, 393 n. 
Sidney, Sir Philip, I 166; ii. 331. 
Sidney, Sabrina, i. 160 n. 
Simeon, Sir John, Bart, i. 10 n, 
Simpson, Joseph, i. 29. 
Sinclair, Rev. John, i. 267 «. 

SiXTEEN-STRING JaCK, ii. 63 tl, 

SkrimagCi ii. 164. 

Sky, Isle of, i. 244, 253, 274. 

Slains Castle, i. 236. 

Smallbroke, Dr., i. 106. 

Smelt, Leonard, ii. 146 »., 149. 

Smith, Adam, Glasgow and Brentford, 

i. 291 n. ; importation of fniit, ii. 20 m. ; 

life at Kirkaldy, i. 230 n.\ London 

pavement, i. 234 ».; malt, I 174 ».; 

opinions of others, ii. 369 «.; prices of 

com, i. 193 «. ; scrupulosity, ii. 144 ». ; 

sympathy, i. 141 «. ; Wealth of Nations 

reviewed, i. 413 ». 
Smith, Henry, ii. 210 «., 216 «., 219 n. 
Smith, John Thomas, ii. 63 «., 433. 
Smith, Lady, i. 329, 335, 336 n, ; ii. 93. 
Smith, Mrs., i. 298. 
Smith, — , Johnson*s letter, t 167. 
Smollett, Commissary, i. 286, 323. 
Smollett, Tobias, Baretti*s account of 

him, 1. 286 If. ; Humphry Clinker 

quoted, i. 224 «., 385 n. ; Jacobites, i. 

359 ^* t monument, i. 286. 
SoHO Square, i 88. 
Solitude, i, 131, 337. 
Solomon, Nathan, ii. 340 n, 
SoRocoLD, — ii. 117 «. 
Sortes Virgilianae, ii. 169 «., 239 n. 



South, Rev. Robert, D.D., il 183 «., 428 

»•» 439- 

SouTHWARK, elections, i. 133-4, '37; 
ii. 145, 15 1-4, 160, 203; Thrale*s 
house, i. 195 n.\ — The Tower, i. 
314 ».; — Johnson's places, i. 398; 
— robbery, ii. 347 ; Gordon Riots, ii. 
177-8. 

Southwell, Edmund, i. 206 n, 

Southwell, Frances, i. 205, 

Southwell, second Lord, i. 205 n. 

Southwell, Lucy, i. 205. 

Southwell, Mrs., i. 316; ii. 151, 153. 

Southwell, Viscount, ii. 202 n, 

Southwell, Viscountess, Johnson's let- 
ter, ii. 202. 

Spain, prejudice against Jews, I 317 «. ; 
language, il 37 ; prisons, 394. 

Spalding Society, ii. 275 n. 

Speke, Captain, i. 240 n, 

Spence, Rev. Joseph, ii. 133, 156. 

Spencer, Countess, ii. 65, 11 1, 369. 

Spencer, second Earl, ii. iii »., 369 ir. 

Spiritual Quixote, i. 46 n. 

Sporting Magazine, ii. 30 n,, 400 n. 

Spottiswoode, Andrew, ii. 259 «. 

St. Andrews, i. 231. 

St. Cross, i. 122. 

St. Helens. Lord, i. 46 n. 

St. John's Gate, i. 66. 

St. Margaret's Hill, ii. 171 «. 

Staffordshire, i. 397 ; ii. 20 n. 

Stanhope, Philip, ii. 113 n. 

Stationers' Company, ii. 76 n. 

Steele, Sir Richard, i. 154. 

Steevens, George, Chatterton's poems, 
i* 39S 'y Johnson's carelessness, i. 204 
«. ; ii. 284 n.\ — at Marylebone 
Gardens, ii. 74 «. ; — Lives, il 221 ; 
— intimate with him, il 242 ; — 
funeral, ii. 434; Shakespeare, i. 117 »., 
168-9, 2^5 »• ; mentioned, ii. 294, 315. 

Stephen, Sir Fitzjames, i. 410 n, 

Sterne, Lawrence, Tristram Shandy, i. 
224 ». 

Stevenson, — , i. 108. 

Stewart (or Stuart), Francis, i. 25, 28. 

Stockdale, Rev. Percival, i. 42 «., 191 

«., 374 n. 
Stocks, ii. 340. 
Stonehenge, ii. 340. 



I 






Indix to 






- '^f. -5^; 



:_ 'li IIS M • 
± rii fi±isr- =- 167. 271. 
J7*. 2*3 : Fr^rW/i ui-rct. =_ 1*3 «.: 
Jor^yjc's >r:srs. i. 95. 97. lac, iss. 
115: iL i67, I'l. 2*3-4. 4if: — 
fcicrxl. -L 434: Mr::c?xfs t^or. L 
362 : UzirtrstT Q'S2jsz% t- 1 1 ' : \"ictr 

STl-Ui^N. Mrt, L 51 : iL 134. 211 «. : 

JobrLK-s '.^ti-r. ii- 433. 
STiLAHA>', WCIizs:. CacelVs p«rc=«r, 5. 

61 n.'. corrects Hrm* a^r: Ro 

L 413 !•.: diftresijc 

2^, 272, 2;?. 2S3: 

ii. 2*3 n.\ GcT^oa kiou. t. 167. 170: 

JchsK>-'5 Ictrcn. i. 25. 27. 2S, 32, 

37» 79» "3r 297- 3«3. 3=3r 309-1^- 
412 ; ii. 203, 2S7, 276. 27>. 31S ; Kirk's 

Printer, i. 115 n.\ ii. 272 n. : osenibcr 

of Parliirneiit, i. 300 ; firania Johasoc's 

letters, ii. 274; nse^tioce^. i- 17 «., 

67 «. : ii. 1 16-7. 2SS. 

STfcEATHELD. M:«. ii 69 n.. 72. 

Streatham, T* hr-soa's home. i. 129. 
14I «. ; cr-terie, 166 n.: '.ibrai^-. 232: 
Llce-r>%~. 257: :n:j.r:vt.Ter.t>. 3; 2. 
34^» 5*^ ; ce?cn^/t'i ly S. fcurr.ey and 

of i-c 30; 



wiih tis 50C, ii. 



picture 



P.HM, 3SO «.; 
islasd, ii. 310. 
Streatham Village, spring of water, 
i. 178 «. : haVits of fiepri-riaticr., ii. 

3ii- 
Strickland, Mrs., i. 401. 

S'IRH:k!,ami. — i. 206 n. 

Styll, new, i, 6 «., "/) n. 

Si'M'iMJS SfcVERfS. ii. 192. 

Si .MNEk. Kev. Dr., i. 394 n. 

S''RGE«;N.>, i. 162 rt. 

Survivafue, i. 216 ;/. 

S' .^SEX, i. 395 ;/. 

SniLE ri'JTi.REs, i. 397. 

SriTtN, — i. 331 //. 

SfVOKni F, Prochore, ii. 377 //. 

Swan, I>r., ii. 130 w. 

SWEYMIKYM. ii. 43S. 

Swift, Jonathan, Ihiucis and Philemon, 
ii, 96 ;/. : Faulkner, (jcorj^e, i. 13 «., 
316 w. ; flattered, i. 221 ;i. ; giddiness, 



123 ■. : y*m\ mm' tj 5rr'7s. *. i:: « 

i *r Z>r. 5wt, =l 54 ■_ u;. 
i^i- 5=^a- *=>♦ «, 4^1 «. ; /Vr.-j'. L 15: 
r»« #»r. iL aa^ «. : Scalla. i 6 « . 
£. 192 a : Z'i> r/"* 7W. L 17* «. 

Stinfix. :»=&:, M J>_ L 6 », 54 » 

=- 75 «- 207. ^ 
Swrvri-N. T:-t=, c 4.51. 
SiXE>HAM, TVkb&s. M-D- n- 131. 

STUTATHT. i. I4.I- 170 m.i iL 2!*, Ii*. 

ais. 237. 



Tacitts. quoted, ii. 297. 
Talbot. Dr., i. 312. 

T.\LI£K£K, i. 26S. 

Talk. iL 19. 

TaxjH^m no Tyramnj^ L 30S-11. 314. 

329- 
Taxes, i. 202 It. 

Tayloe. John .the \Vat«r Poet' , L 204 s- 
TayL'.'R, Rct. John, D.D., bleeding, ii. 
160, 401-3 ; Boswe-U Ung:^s at him. ii. 
31 : bdl-dcg. i. 340 ; cattle, l i6a 
166. 175, 17S, 1S2. 197, 541. ^4;; il 
43-45. 47. 49 ; chaise, i. iSo : r»evcc- 
shire family, i. 12; ii. 10; ^rowin^ 
old, ii. 95 ; heir, i. 379 «. ; hocse xlL 
! grounds, i. 165. 179. 346; xlL L 175: 
ii. 97, loi, 355. 357, 362; Johnsoc. 
feelings towards, and Johnson's fe<li=^ 
towards him, i. 184, 350, 353, 356-7. 
369 ; ii. 240; — letters, i. 10, 40. 64. 
70, 101-7.109. 112. 119^ 122. 156. 160. 
iSS-91, 207. 222, 296, 304, 3^,314, 

36^, 372. 375. 379-«o, 387, 390. 40^^; 

ii. 9, 10, loi, loS, 143, 165. 247. 261- 

6, 269-71. 277. 280. 282, 285. 301 r.^ 
\ 322, iio, 337, 342, 355, 357^ 362, 365. 

370. 374- 401-3. 42^; — paralytic 

stroke, ii. 301 ; — resents his advice. 

ii. 426 «.; — serious talk i*ith him, ii. 

227 «.; law-suits, i. 375, 379, 390. 

393, 395» 400»4^8; ii. 15S, 160, 163, 
, 190; milk diet, ii. 234, 236; mind 

unsettled, i. 189-90; Passion Wet*. 
I i. 1 88; phraseology, ii. 160; prefer- 



Letters of Dr. Johnson, 



471 



Taylor, Bev. John. Thrale, Hester Iiynoh. 



ments, i. 12 »., 13 »., 65 »., 156, 396; 
ii. 108, 158, 238, 261 ff., 262, 397; 
robbed, ii. 265 ; sister, i. 71 ; tithes, 
i. 166 n.\ variance with Langley, i. 
347 ; ii. 34 ; venison, ii. 32, 34 ; water- 
fall, i. 198, 342 ; wife separated from 
him, i. 101-7, 109, 112; will, i. 166 »., 

379 «• 
Taylor, John (of Birmingham), i. 1 24. 

Tea-table, i. 273 «. 

Temple, second Earl, ii. 370 n. 

Temple, Sir Richard, ii. 188 n. 

Temple, Sir William, ii. 128, 400 n. 

Temple, Rev. William Johnson, ii. 182 n. 

Temple, The, i. 90 »., 316 ; the Reader, 

ii"- 349- 
Terence, quoted, ii. i. 

Thackeray, WMUiam Makepeace, i. 
389 n. 

Thanet, Earl of, ii. 402 n, 

Theobald, Lewis, ii. 93, 276 n. 

Thirlby, Dr. Styan, ii. 276. 

Thomond, Marchioness of, ii. 85 n. 

Thomson, James, quoted, i. 107 n.\ ii. 
142. 

Thrale, Anna Maria, i. 140 n, 

Thrale, Cecilia, ii. 51, 291-2, 373. 

Thrale, Frances Anna, i. 315 i»., 354. 

Thrale, Henrietta Sophia (Harriet), ii. 
238, 240, 291 n. 

Thrale, Henry, Abingdon election, i. 
132 n.\ ambition, ii. 72, 127; Bath 
waters, ii. 140, 146 ; * black dog,' ii. 73, 
76, 78-9 ; brewery, i. 192, 194, 346 n. ; 
ii. 34, 127; — difficulties in business, 
i. 192 ff., 198-9, 213, 217 ».; ii. 74; 
— profits, i. 199, 346 ; ii. 22, 32 «., 
72 ; Brighton, journey to, ii. 91 n,\ 
character by his wife, 1. 192 n, ; ii. 
95 **'i 199 ^- i Contractors* Bill, ii. 142 
n. ; death, ii. 209 ; Derby, visits, i. 
350. 353i 355 ; diet, ii. 95 »., 97 «., 
133,14011., 162, 164, 184, 187, 189, 
426 n. ; election, dinners, i. 204 if., 
206 «., 307 ; — address, ii. 145 ; gen- 
tleman, how far a, ii. 160 ». ; Gor- 
don riots, iL 1 70-1, 176; grief for 
his son, i. 384 w., 386, 391 ; iL 71 »., 
95 **-i 97 ^' i house in Grosvenor 
Square, ii. 127 ». ; illness, ii. 93-106, 
108, 132 »., 143 »., 159, 16411., 183 



»., 198, 200 ; ' impracticable interest,* 
i. 329 ; improvements at Streatham, ii. 
45>6'»78; Italy, proposed tour, i. 387; 
ii. 192 n. ; Johnson's clothes, L 322 ; ii. 
39 ; — company, L 347 n. ; — invest- 
ments, ii. 99 ; — letters, i. 153, 167, 169, 
183^275, 283, 284, 306, 308, 403; ii. 6, 
14, 96, 98, 162 ; — love for him and his 
wife, i. 142, 294, 388 ; ii. 47, 54, 100, 
209, 211, 213-4 ; — * my hornet i. 1 29, 
141 «. ; ii. 40 «. ; — * our* i. 194 ; ii. 
203; — grief at his death, ii. 209, 
351 ; — executor, ii. 210, 214, 216 ». ; 
— guardian to his children, ii. 292, 
303; marriage, i. 98 «. ; ii. 127 n.; 
Murphy and the Miss Gunnings, ii. 122 
ft.\ *\fy master,' i. 196 n.\ pillar of 
the house, i. 405 ; ii. 1 19 ; sisters, i. 
219 n.\ sleep, it. 97-8, 199; South- 
wark elections, i. 132, 136-7; ii. 145, 
151-4, 158, 160, 203 ; * take him for all 
in all, &c.,' i. 334 ; * takes up his restes^ 
i. 401, 404; Thraliana, ii. 27 if. ; will, 
executors and trustees, ii. 115, 119, 
126, 129, 210, 216 »., 219. 

Thrale, Henry Salusbury, birth, i. 128 
ff. ; reads Milton, 214; life put in a 
lease, 288 ; loved by Johnson, 294, 
344> 383; entail, 351 ; death, 330 if. , 
381 ; ii. 220 If. 

Thrale, Hester Lynch (Miss Salusbury, 
afterwards Mrs. Piozzi), ancestry and 
birth, i. 201 if., 355 if.; Anecdotes^ sum 
paid her, ii. 403 if. ; aunt, it 38, 47 ; 
bad taste, ii. 200 if. ; Bath, visits, i. 383 
M-f 387 If. ; ii. 132, 404 If. ; Blackmore's 
Life^ ii. 185 if. ; Boswell's brother, ii. 
182 If. ; —Journal, i. 320, 330, 344, 
355 ; brewery on her husband's death, 
ii. 23 If., 126 If., 210 If., 213, 216-8, 
222 If.; British Synonomy, i. 212 if., 
384 If. ; ii. 36 If., 357 If. ; Chambers, 
Sir R., ii. 263 ; children, bom, i. 140, 
153, 183, 315 ; — subject to a malady, 

i- 349 1 "• 74f 35^ '•• J — treatment of 
them, i. 205 «., 294 «., 338 if., 350 if., 
35 1 » 381 If. ; — feelings towards them, 
i 353 «., 38411. ; ii. 291 If. ; — attacks 
her daughters, ii. 210 if., 387 if., 394 
If., 405 If., 408 If. ; — borroMTs money 
from them, ii. 391 if . ; — separation on 



+72 



Index to 



he maxTUige. tx. 405 «.. 41 2 : cnaiseness. 
ii. J04 n. : compued vidi Mis. Xon- 
tagn, IL 153 ; ' contour/ vL 150 «. : 
courted, u. 140 ; debts, ix. 391 ; de- 
jection, iL 394; deaciil-ied, by yUm 
Boniej, iL 6 m.y 133 «., 153 ».; — 
br Boswell, ii. 23.S «. : ileacribcs Misi 
Boinej, iL 133 «., 408 i*. ; * despicable 
dzead/ L 196 «. ; IL 137. 139; dress, 
L 338 «., 340 «. ; elec ti o n - dinneis, L 
204, 206 ; election of 17^, iL 152-4, 
157 «. ; ^saterj. L 200, 2 20-1. 313. 329 ; 
iL 43 M., 308 ; Foote, slanders, iL 56 
m. ; fbrgetfolnesii, L 367 ; fimnked letters. 
iL 94 jc ; Garrick'f cinb-forfeits, xL 415 
«. ; Gordon riots, iL 171 m. ; Hawkes- 
worth's play, L 412; husband (first, 
married to her, i. 98 «. ; ii. 127 m. ; 
his good character. iL 95 «i. ; — their 
happiness, iL 210 ; — attacked by her, 
L 192 M^ 217 ff. ; iL 96 If., 140 M^ 
160 «., 199 «(., 210 «.; — his money , 
difficulties, L 192 jc, 195-9; ^ 199'*- > • 
— apoplexy, iu 94 «. ; — death, iL ; 
209: — money left her, iL 210 «., 
221, 229, 331; husband (second), first 
acquaintance, ii. 57 «. ; — * enchanting 
society,* 198 n. : — love for him, 351 
«., 368 «.. T^S6 n. ; — his complaints, 
387 n. ; — attack* on her about him, 
352 M. ; — marriage, ii. 6 «., 198 »., 
404-9 ; — sent for from Milan, 401 
n. ; — Circular to the Executors, and 
Johnson's replies, 404-9 ; — her two 
husbands compared, 406 «., 407 n. ; in- 
accuracy, ii. 118, 237 n. ; inattention, • 
ii. 343-4; jealousy, i. 344 «. ; Jewish 
notions, ii. 57 «. ; Johnson's ad\icc to 
her, ii. 394, 406 ; - affection for her, 
"• ^^^^ 3". 350 ; - » she attacks him, 
ii* 3 7 "•* ii9' ^y — attendance re- 
<|uirH, i. 142 ». ; - excellence, i. 196 
«. ; ii. 406 ; — expostulates with her, ii. 
392 ;/., 405 ; — says that she is to be , 
forgotten or pitied, 412 ; — , her kind- i 
ness to him, ii. 213, 236, 238, 344, 249, ' 
307, 407 ; — his high opinion of her, \ 
ii. 406 ; see also under Thrale, Henry ; 
- letters to her described, i. 361 ; 
pleasure in her letters, i. 216, 337, 332, 
335; ii- 28, 50, 75, 123; complains i 



that they are not cfatrrf, xL 27 «. 139. 
162; borxxi Thrm L 355 «. ; xL 4:7 
«. : — Ziner. ii. 198 «. ; — Io»e d 
useful ksowledgte, iL 32 1 a. ; — 
choly, L 332 *. ; — * My 
196 ; — , her neglect of him. 5. 241. 
245. 250, 258, a9X, 297. joc jea-i 
327. 351. 368, 381 m^ 384. 39^ «- 
404 ; — . her *• unfieeliixs irony/ iL 1*7: 

— Ode and verses, L 284 ; iL 192 a. : 

— her present to him. iL ^f^ . — 
trustee. L 355 ; — qnazxel with Tarlix. 
iL 426 n. ; — revises her poem. iL ^ 
M, ; — she writes hizn a Kxioiis lectK 
iL 380 «., 384; Jomnuj^ xL 318 a.; 

i' Charity SchooL L 156 a.: 
Lxng, L 130 «. ; iL 34 K. ; Litter 
ta and from Dr.Jakmsam.^ letters nil- 
placed, L 163 «., 308 «. ; iL 55 «.. 96* 
131, ai9, 242, 256 «., 257V; — 
altered or wrong, L J40 n^ 288 «., 336 
fi., 3SS «. ; iL 29 i«^ 245 «., 25S SL, 
404«. ; —'studied/ iL 147 le., 175 a.; 
marriage, see above nnder hnsfaaad; 
Metcalfe's dislike of her, iL 345 a.; 
Musgrave, Mr., i. 399 jv. ; nerres ruiaed, 
iL 198 KT. ; XoUckens' studio, iL 62 a. ; 
Opera, at the, ii. 279 ; parts with her 
money, iL 106 «. ; reconciled casilr. 
i. 355 ; redaction in her table, iL 3^9; 
regaled with Greek and Latin, li. 201; 
Regatu, at the, i. 336-9, 343: sea- 
bathing, ii. 377 «.; saitors» ii. 69 a.; 
* sunny little thing,' ii. 100 ; ThrtxIianA. 
ii. 36 «. ; uncle, see Salusbury. 
Sir Thomas; verses, ii. I41 ; Welsh 
estates, i. 390 n. ; \Vhitbread*s offer of 
marriage, ii. 33 n. ; wig, u. 57. 
Thrale, Hester Maria ^afterwards Vis- 
countess Keith;, accomplished, iL 155, 
160; Barctti*s pupil, L 326, 354, 403 
«.; birthday, i. 350; ii. 33, 35, 405 
n. ; cabinet, L 196, 387, 294 ; children, 
management of, ii. 183 ; dancing, ii. 
47 «., 48, 127; described by Miss 
Bumey, ii. 5 «., 154 «.; — by Baretti, 
ii. 356 «. ; eyes sore, ii. 148 n.\ 
father, watches over her, ii. 191, 200; 

— his death, ii. 313 «.; gloomy, L 
339 «. ; Gordon riots, ii. 175; health, 
i. 385 ; ii. 38-9, 358 ; Johnson, held 



Letters of Dr. Johnson. 



473 



Thrale, Hester Maria. Voltaire. 



by, ii. 79 ; — his afiection for her, ii. 
229, 234; — Latin lessons, ii. 98 ir., 
154, 182, 189; — letters, ii. 72 it., 
186 ; — , her letters to htm, i. 356 ; ii. 
78, 118, 129, 136, 191, 193, 230-2, 
303* 308, 389, 397 ; — her neglect of 
him, ii. 279, 316, 384, 404 ; — verses, 
ii. 46 n. \ Marie Antoinette notices her, 
i. 369 ; marriage, i. 133 ». ; memoirs, 
i. 320; mot*her, conduct towards her, 
ii. 394 n.\ — marriage, ii. 405 ».; 
offer of marriage, ii. 394 n, ; poultry, 
i. 334 ; * Queeney,* 1. 180 ». ; regatta, i. 
339 ; watch, i. 401 ; womanly, ii. 59. 

Thrale, Lucy Elizabeth, i. 140 »., 153 
ff., 196, 290, 294. 

Thrale, Ralph, L 294 «., 3>9i 328, 344, 

348. 35 «» 353. 
Thrale, Sophia (afterwards Mrs.Hoare), 

i. 183 «., 365, 393; ii. 91, 190, 316, 

364, 397 ; Johnson*s letter, ii. 320 ; 

proficience in arithmetic, ii. 321, 361 ; 

ill, ii. 356, 360, 383, 385-6. 
Thrale, Susanna A., i. 349, 393 ; ii. 78, 

91, 190, 232, 280, 298, 303, 320, 348, 

3^4) 397! Johnson's letters, ii. 316, 

333» 33i» 35^ 385; — * always a 

Susy,' i. 354; ii. 44. 
Thuanus, i. 30 n. 
Thurloe, John, i. 13. 
Thurlow, Lord Chancellor, i. 390; ii. 

213 »., 414 «. 
Thurlow, Thomas, Bishop of Lincoln, 

ii. 349 n. 
TiLNEY, Lord, i. 206 «. 
TiMMiNS, Mr. Samuel, i. 15 /i. 
TimorsomCy ii. 246. 
ToLCHER, Alderman, i. 93. 
ToMKESON, — Johnson's letter, ii. 338. 
ToNSON, Jacob (the younger;, i. 62 »., 

124, 127 n, 
TooKE, Rev. William, ii. 377 n, 
Tories, i. ij if. 
TorpescencCy ii. 441. 
Toujours ptrdriXy i. 178 n. 
Town Malling, ii. 23 «. 
ToySy i. 294 n. 



Trade, ii. 1 26. 

Translation, i. 381 it. 

Travel, Books of, i. 166, 227. 

Travelling, i. 254, 270. 

Traverse, i. 242 n. 

Trinity College, Cambridge, i. 323 «. 

Trissino, G. G., it. 240 It. 

Truth, i. 365 it. 

TuAM, Archbishop of, ii. 326. 

Tumid, ii. 372 n. 

Turbulent *, Mr., ii. 5 it. 

Turnpike roads, ii. 441. 

TuRTON, Dr., ii. 191, 193. 

TuRTON, Miss, i. 132, 173 If.; ii. 20. 

Twiss, Richard, i. 316, 321, 351 «., 399. 

Tyburn, ii. 63 n. 

Tyranny, ii. no. 

Tyrwhitt, Thomas, i. 398, 404. 

Tyson, — , ii. 171. 

U. • 
Ulinish, i. 268. 
Under the circumstofues^ ii. 36. 
Universal History^ ii. 432. 
University, its advantages, ii. 440. 
Urquhart, James, ii. 50 n. 
Utensils, i. 257. 

V. 

Valetudinarians, i. 305, 378. 

Vanity 0/ Human Wishes, i. 11 ». 

Vansittart, Dr., i. 289. 

Veracious, ii. 52 if. 

Vesby, Mrs., iL 88, 105, 134, 136, 155 n., 

164, 178. 
Vezy, Miss, ii. 312. 
Victor Amadeus, i. 146. 
ViLLETTE, — , ii. 311 n, 
Vinteniers, i. 162 n. 
Virgil, quoted: JEnnd, i. 130, 182, 

221, 335; ii. 37. 4ii 289, 345, 373, 
408 If.; Ecloguts, i. 154, 266 »., 334 
If. ; ii. 41 ; pieces ascribed to him, ii. 
417 ; compared with Ovid, ii. 440. 
Voltaire, Dmry Lane Theatre, i. 5 it.; 
Cardinal Fleury, 12 if. ; Baskcrville's 



' * The gentleman whom Miss Bumey held up to ridicule as Mr. Turbulent was the 
Rev. Charles de Guiffardiire.' — C. Knight's Passages of a Worlting Lije^ i. 45 ; ed. 
1864 



^7-^ 



[ndax ta 



-nrr. -.ir.r^ .':&,■ ;:fi f 

. r.. XC >. '^ . -— -. - ,*Vt 
.irrT.-iT*. :. ' *. iC --i* *'.i^ 

■ 111. 't{'3F. . lo.'i- .i^ J- ^.v 



.nuxfon « 



. :^. 



'I 
'V 

A 
*.\ 

A 

'A 

-I 

'\ 

\y 

A 
■A 






4. 



v.. .--v. - i-. . — .,- 

»..L. \f.-i . ::. i = 7 «- 

* :. j^ :.<?. O.. :•;.-. «::«.. -j «..:- a} ■«- 
^:.jC.:LZ . . Nf.t- -1. A> f-t 
k:.n ;T-72.-.a.-.. ~ r;,:. 

• :.y. :.?., ?i -.n*:!* :car-ii Ear: :t <>:- 

»J ■ ',-.: «- ;^ * ■ ^ cT *•• Ji*^«" 

r. ri :.: r ■ u .:_ * yC •■: : 7 i' •.-?-i-Tf.'. 

'X " ■ •-' -..,—.. .. -.1 »* . •-. -'-c 
h ; .-tv; ^. n. . ,j^. ..• .*.»i5. 

K. . «',.-. 1:."." .-.. .. X--4 " : '- .^.".ni iT.-i 

• - - - • - - 1 •» ■ 1"- — -=-*Ti \rT iar::!^- 

.. --. « : ,-.- ,r.j::'.r.. ;. •;;i « ; Inrt- 
: '..•;. fy,:\ .:. i>; 1: : ■it':.3.lr.i in 

. ^. .. . I T. ■» 4-'--- — ^-■■■* •- "^ '»•« 

/■■ ■ . ^'. * " ■ ''a. • ■ '■ '.-*-- «^i : I io fl ■ 

r>'^ :':'■> ' i" /i '..',, ;:. ri; t.-.-.'-.-.r-. oi 
tjC". i . I ;, 2 «. . X ; 7 ;i. ; Rr. -la.- i 
n.::.fA, .:. 114 «.. 264 n.; F-^x a::d 
F';", ii. 7,;S ;/. ; Garri ic a:.'i Mrs, 
I'or*':r, li. 7,41 «. ; <'i- orgc III and 
J',Kr.v>n, ii. J- 7 «. ; ^'Jor'Jor. rio:5, ii. 
1^6 70 ««., 172 ^> fift.j I7'< ;i. : pjout, 
Ii. loH ;/. ; 'ir r.a^la. ii. 121 ft.; Har- 
^o?irt, K-Tfl of, ii. .',7//. : Ilarlcy, AldcT- 
rnnn, i. 7,04 w. ; hay-makinfj, i. 3 = 2 «. ; 
II' r .'.h' l"Ii -,'.•. eric-, ii. :,^^)fi.', hi.cjl:- 



i; «. ~ef2a. "Hr a... i. :** x. "as 

-He inrm i-c, i. 155 jl — m '«-£ 







1 <« 



IK. : icr-n-^ of 1 7^^. i£- js r «, irs », 

j6c «. : iosisKr rf r~i. :_ r-i^ «. . — 
.:t 1 7* J. is- 3-:o «., jjo «. : — A 17*4. 
-. +i'5 tt. I A iirsreac trie 

a.: 'i^'LaCH, Dr.. d. 31^7 ji 
WmP'-.lz. Sir Rctert, :. ^ 

:*o if. 
Wv 1.7:1. '*V:'.lu=i. J. :7s. 
\V \ i 5 •: i T N- . \\ i".:a re T^. D . ImsL-: r : ; 

• • 

:za:ikir. -...;. 7 *:. 
W A? : . Mr. T. lEiiiajiiry, ::. ;3c «. 
Was.:-. Wil.ian:. i. if . 
WaR.ver, L*7.. ii. !*>> «. 
Wajlner. Rebecca, i. 4^*; n. 
Warren. Thocia?, i. 6. y. 41- j. 1^5. 

W\r.REN, — , i. 164. 

. Wartov. Rev. Joserh, DP.. ColliziS 

p.X'm<. ii. i.^o ; E::ciy en /\\-,r. L 6j «. ; 
j J jhr.5on'5 Utters, i. 56. 3.<5. 6j, \ix ; 1 

156: Spe-ce*s AnccJoUs, ii. 133 jc.; 
] his taf:e ama2cm«.nt, ii. 44I : Theoi\aI • 

and .S-neca, ii. 93 «. ; Winchester 

School, i. 63. 
WartoN', Mrs., i. 122. 
Warton. Rev. Thomas. Collin? visit.* 

him. i. y) n. ; JohnsonV decree, i. 6: 



Letters of Dr. Johnson. 



475 



Warton, Bev. Thomas. Woodward, Dr. 



». ; — letters, 1. 73; ii. 155; Mr. 
Swinton*s sermon, ii. 43a if. ; men- 
tioned, i. 38 It ; ii. 357 If. 

Was to see, i. 353 w.; ii. 186. 

Washington, George, ii. 57 «. 

Watermen's Company, ii. 319 «. 

Watson, Richard, Bishop of LiandafT, i. 
183 If.; ii 313 If. 

Watson, Professor Robert, i. a3iif.,4i3; 
ii. 91. 

Watts, Rev. Isaac, D.D., it 185 if., 333 

«., 275 »• 
Way, Mrs., ii. 353, 339. 
Webster, — , L 379 if. 
Wedderburne, Alexander (Lord Loagh- 

borongh and Earl of Rosslyn), i 356 

«•» .^95- 
Welch, Sannders, L 149 if., 396 ; ii. 

63 n. 

Wellington, Duke of, L 341 if. 

Wells, Mrs., i. 301 if. 

Welsh Grammar, i 145. 

Wesley, Rev. John, causes of scarcity, L 
aoi If. ; * consorted with,* L 305 ; free- 
man of Perth, i 336 If. ; gout, ii. 
1 09 If. ; Inverness, i 351 if. ; Johnson's 
letter, i. 373 ; Marshalsea, i. 306 if. ; 
Newcastle in 1745, i. 237 if . ; Oxford 
Methodists, i. 136 if. ; sisters, ii 57 if., 
393 ; sound sleeper, ii. 335 if. 

Wesley, Kezia, ii. 57 «. 

Wesley, Miss, ii. 57. 

West, Gilbert, ii. 188. 

Westcote, Lord (William Henry Lyttel- 
ton), i. 177; ii. 20, 189; Johnson*s 
letters, ii. 187-8. 

Westminster Abbey, ii. 163, 434. 

Wetherell, Rev. Dr. Nathan, i. 113 if., 

"5 «•» 3i3» 323* 338, 349. 420; u. 

16, 183, 359. 
Weymouth, ii. 318, 335. 
Wheeler, Rev. Benjamin, D.D., ii. i6o, 

337, 398. 
IVheik, i. 268 If. 

Whigs, i. ii if., 185 «., 366; ii. 87, 

400 n. 
Whitbread, Samuel, ii. 23 «., 72 ii. 
Whitby, Thomas, i. 301 n. 
Whitelamb, Mrs., ii. 57 if. 
Wicher's Almshouses, ii. 371. 
Wigan, George, i. 132 //. 



Wilbraham, — , i. 1 16 If. 

WiLCOCKS, John, i. 403. 

Wilkes, John, opposed by Harley, i. 
304 If.; dinner at Dilly*s, 397; poll 
for Chamberlain, 408; Gordon riots, 
ii. 173, 174-5 ; Johnson's letter, 395. 

Wilkes, Miss, ii. 395. 

WiLKiNS, John, Bishop of Chester, ii. 

321. 
WiLKS, Father, L 401, 406; ii. 39. 

Will-making, ii. 115. 

Williams, Anna, annuity, i. 371 «.; ii. 
I90> 33^* 340; benc6t, i. 53, 55-6, 59 
If., 150 ; carving, ii. 135 if. ; character, 
ii. 334, 336 ; compared with Desmou- 
lins, ii. 43 ; dying, ii. 336, 338 ; death, 
ii. 331 ; ill, i. 314; ii.33, 107, 193, 343 
If., 390 ; Irish cloth, i. 168 ; Johnson's 
care for her, i. 37, 349 ; — companion, 

ii. 295, 309» 344» 348, 357> 3^8; — 
sends a letter to her, ii. 318 ; MiS" 
cellanies, i. 87 ; portrait, ii. 335 if. ; 
quarrels, ii. 74-5, 77, 116, 395; visited 
by Mrs.Thrale, i. 360; will, i. 156 if. ; 
ii. 334; mentioned, i. 94, 376, 384, 
311, 394; U. 70, 117, 187, 355, 333. 

WiLMoT, Henry, i. 421. 

WiLMOT, Robert, i. 431. 

WiLMOT, Valentine Henry, i. 431. 

Wilson, Rev. Christopher, i. 40 n, 

Wilson, Rev. Thomas, D.D., i. 40 if.; 

ii. 158, 163, 397. 

WiLSi^N, Rev. Thomas (of Clitheroc), ii. 
334 n, 

Wilton, Miss, i. 341 «. 

Wilton, — , i. 337. 

Windham, Right Hon. William, trans- 
lates ThuanuSy i. 30 if . ; at University 
College, 113 If.; visits Johnson, ii. 
373 »•, 420; Essex Head Club, 396 
If. ; sees a balloon, 430 if. ; Johnson's 
funeral, 434 ; — anecdotes, 439. 

Wings of iron, ii. 373. 

WoFFiNGTON, Margaret, ii. 186 if. 

WoLCOT, Dr. John, ii. 330 if. 

Wolfe, General James, i. 340 if. 

Women, power given them by nature, i. 
104 ; portrait painting, iL 179 if. 

Wood, Anthony, ii. 274. 

Woodcock, — , i. 103-4, 106-7. 

Woodward, Dr., ii. 138-9. 



476 



Index to Letters of Dr. Johnson. 



Woodward, — . 



Woodward, — , i. 397 «., 40a 

Wordsworth, WillUm, letter-writing, 
L 65 If. ; personal talk, IL 19 n. 

Workhouses, ii. 21. 

World, the, not to be despised, 1. 337 ; 
not unkind, ii. 215. 

WoRTHiNGTON,Rev. Dr. William, iL73. 

Wraxall, Sir Nathaniel W., Qaeen of 
Denmark, i. 319 ».; Cursory Remarks ^ 
331 ; American war, 390 n, ; buckles 
and ruffles, ii. 6 ». ; Johnson described, 
136 If.; Gordon riots, 174 if ; Om- 
niscient Jl ckson, 349 If. 

Wray, D., i. 365 If. 

Wright, Alderman, L 116 n. 

Wright, Dr., it 434. 

Wright, Mrs., ii. 57 if. 

Writing, unnatural in three ways, ii. 
440. 



Wrottesley, Sir John, ii. 335 nr. 
Wyatt, John, i. 6 n, 
Wynn, Sir W. W., i. 135. 

X. 

Xenophon, ii. 409. 

Y. 

Yalden, Rev. Thooias, ii. 185 n, 

York, i. 224. 

York, Duke of, i. 409 n. 

Young, Rev. Edward, D.C.L., quoted, 

i. 173 ; iL 44 ; Lift^ IL 189-90. 
Young, George, M.D., L 31. 
Young, Professor John, ii. 315 n. 



Z. 



Zoffany, i. 361 If. 



THE END. 






H 



\ 

i 



