•*• 

#»  .    .      * 

*» *>/  . 


"  -•*. 

'•A 


*•  '     '  .  **  V    • 

•    •  .**  .    r  "*.••••*• 


•;          •   •  •  *  «* 

I'-'  >:..*    •   **-.  '••  »  •  * 


THE  LIBRARY 

OF 

THE  UNIVERSITY 
OF  CALIFORNIA 

LOS  ANGELES 


GIFT  OF 
FREDERIC  THOMAS  BLANCHARD 


Eryrravedby  W.Evans,  from  an  origin 


HUGH  BOYD  E 


fubKducd.  Deambcr  4-1799,  fy  &dea&.Davies,  Strand. 


MISCELLANEOUS  WORKS 

O  F 

HUGH  BOTD, 


T  H  £ 


of  tfje  lettei-0  of 


WITH 
AN  ACCOUNT  OF  HIS  LIFE  AND  WRITINGS, 

,    B  Y 

LAWRENCE  DUNDAS  CAMPBELL 


VOLUME  THE  FIRST. 


LONDON: 

PRINTED    FOR   T.   CADELI,,  JUNIOR,   AND   w.  DAV1E 

IN   THE   STRAND    ; 
BY   R.   NOBLE,    IN'   THE    OLD-BA1LEV. 


J800. 


• 


V.   I 

ADVERTISEMENT. 

n  unaccountable  miftake  of  the  perfon 
employed  to  correcl  the  proof  Jheets  of  the  ift 
volume  of  theft  works,  Mr.  Boyd's  letters, 
which  appeared  in  the  Pubiick  Advertifer  in 
the  year  1779,  have  been  called  Democraticus, 
in  the  running  title,  though  they  bear  the  Jig- 
nature  of  Democ  rates  :  and  as  the  Editor 
had  unluckily  mijlaid  the  original  papers,  it 
'was  impojfible  for  him  exactly  to  determine 
which  of  thefe  titles  to  give  them.  But  from 

fome  circumftances  in  his  recollection,  he  con- 
ceived Democraticus  to  be  the  right  one,  and 
has  therefore  given  tJie  letters  in  quejlion  that 
title,  wherever-  he  had  occajlon  to  mention  them 
in  Mr.  Boyd's  Life.  The  Editor  expecls  very 

Jhortly  to  procure  another  copy  of  the  original 

papers;  and  in  the  additional  volume  to  thefe 
works,  which  he  intends  publifhing  in  the  courfe 
of  this  year,  he  will  inform  the  publick  whether 
Democraticus,  or  Democrates,  be  the  real 

Jignature. 


A  2 


* 


PREFACE. 


Jl  Now  prefent  to  the  publick  fome  part  of 
the  Mifcellaneous  Works  of  HUGH  BOYD, 
THE  AUTHOR  OF  JUNIUS,  together  with 
a  full  and  accurate  account  of  his  Life  and 
Writings.  The  firft  volume  contains  the 
greatefl  part  of  the  political  papers  which 
he  wrote  between  the  years  1776  and  1781, 
his  genuine  Abftracls  of  two  celebrated 
Speeches  of  the  Great  Earl  of  Chatham, 
and  alfo  a  fewPoems,  which  I  publifh  merely 
to  (hew  the  verfatility  of  his  mind.  The 
fecond  volume  comprifes  the  Journal  of  his 
Embaffy  from  the  Government  of  Madras 
to  the  King  of  Candy,  in  the  ifland  of  Cey- 
lon, 


vi  PREFACE. 

Ion,  with  fome  Letters  relative  thereto,  and 
his  Eflkys  in  the  Indian  Obferver. 

His  political  papers  are  extremely  inter- 
efling,  not  only  from  their  (hiking  fimilitude 
to  the  letters  of  Junius,  but  from  their  own 
intrinfick  merit.  The  memorable  Speeches 
of  the  Earl  of  Chatham,  are  here  rendered 
the  more  valuable,  from  the  uncommon 
precifion  with  which  they  are  given,  and  the 
mafterly  and  eloquent  Preface  by  which 
they  #re  illuftrated.  The  Journal  of  his 
Embaffy  to  Candy,  is  a  tra6l  of  no  incon- 
fiderable  importance  in  the  hiftory  of  Britifh 
India,  and  will  therefore  be  ufeful  to  every 
perfon  connected  with  that  country  :  nor 
will  it  be  unentertaining  to  the  publick  at 
large,  as  well  from  the  character  of  its  au- 
thor, as  from  the  neatnefs  and  vivacity  of 
its  ftyle.  In  the  Preface  to  the  Journal,  I 
have  endeavoured  to  fupply  that  informa- 
tion refpecling  the  ifland  of  Ceylon,  which 
it  was  Mr.  Boyd's  intention  to  have  written, 

and 


PREFACE.  Vll 

and  which  will,  I  hope,  be  found  no  lefs  in- 
finitive than  it  is  neceflkry.  The  Letter  an- 
nexed to  the  Journal,  gives  a  lively  account 
of  his  capture  by  the  French  fleet,  and  of 
his  fubfequent  imprifonment  in  the  iflands  of 
Mauritius  and  Bourbon.  This  letter  exhibits 
a  fpecimen  of  Mr.  Boyd's  familiar  ftyle,  which 
is  eafy,  unaffected,  and  perfpicuous.  The 
Effays  in  the  Indian  Obferver,  though  not  to 
be  compared  in  point  of  literary  excellence 
with  the  highly-finifhed  produ&ions  of  his 
early  and  more  ftudious  years,  are  never- 
thelefs  worthy  of  being  ranked  among  them, 
both  on  account  of  their  principles  and  fen- 
timents,  and  of  the  elegant,  if  not  nervous 
language,  in  which  thefe  are  clothed. 

Such  are  the  Mifcellaneous  Writings  of 
Mr.  Boyd,  contained  in  thefe  volumes,  and 
fuch  are  their  refpe&ive  claims  to  the  notice 
of  the  publick.  In  the  courfe  of  the  pre- 
fent  year,  I  propofe  to  publifh  an  additional 
volume,  confiding  of  the  Letters  figned  Lucius 

and 


Vili  PREFACE. 

and  Brutus,  which  Mr.  Woodfall  acknow- 
ledges to  have  been  written  by  Junius,  and 
of  feveral  others  of  Mr.  Boyd's,  that  ap- 
peared at  different  times  in  the  Publick 
Advertifer. 

The  Portrait  that  accompanies  thefe 
Works,  was  engraved  from  an  original  pic- 
ture, for  which  Mr.  Boyd  fat  (a  few  years 
previous  to  his  death)  to  Mr.'R.  HOME*: 
and  as  it  is  a  fpirited  and  faithful  reprefenta- 
tion  of  a  countenance,  which  many  Readers 
may  be  curious  to  fee,  I  have  thought  it 
neceffary  to  publifh  it. 

With  regard  to  the  narrative  of  Mr. 
Boyd's  Life,  it  will  be  found  to  differ  in 
many  particulars  from  the  fhort  account 
prefixed  to  a  former  edition  of  the  Indian 
Obferver.  When  I  wrote  that  account,  my 
materials  were  both  fcanty  and  imperfect  : 
but  the  circumftances  that  are  now  related, 

*  Mr.  HOME  is  a  brother  of  Mrs.  HUNTER'S,  relift 
ot  the  celebrated  JOHN  HUNTER. 

have 


PREFACE.'  IX 

have  been  communicated  to  me  from  the 
moft  unqueftionable  authorities. 

The  delineation  of  his  character,  written 
at  a  time  when  all  its  minuted  features  were 
diftinclly  prefent  to  my  mind,  I  have  not 
altered  in  any  eflential  part,  though  I  have 
corrected  fome  blemimes  of  ftyle,  which  in 
the  firft  draught  had  efcaped  my  notice. 

Of  the  inveftigation  concerning  Junius, 
I  deem  it  requifite,  mofl  folemnly  to  aver, 
that  I  have  not  adduced  a  fingle  facl  or  cir- 
cumftance,  but  what  I  can  fubftantiate  on 
pofitive  and  creditable  evidence ;  and  I  am 
perfuaded  that  I  have  not  drawn  a  fingle 
inference  but  what  is  ItricUy  jufl. 

In  the  courfe  of  this  inquiry,  I  have  been 
not  a  little  indebted  to  Mr.  ALMON,  whofe 
information  and  experience  enabled  him  to 
furnim  me  with  fome  interefting  particulars, 
which  I  could  not  have  obtained  from  any 
other  perfon,  and  which  ftrongly  corrobo- 
rate the  teftimony  of  Mrs.  Bo  YD. 

The 


X  PREFACE. 

The  whole  together  conftitutes  a  mafs  of 
evidence,  than  which  nothing  more  con- 
vincing can  reafonably  be  expected,  or  per- 
haps ever  attained  in  this  queftion.  The 
only  additional  proof  that  there  is  any  pro- 
bability of  procuring,  is  the  manufcript  of 
Junius,  which  if  Mr.  H.  S.  Woodfall  (hall 
choofe  to  produce,  I  will  fubmit  fac-fimiles 
of  it,  and  of  Mr.  Boyd's  hand-writing,  to- 
gether, to  the  publick.  This  I  conceive  to 
be  a  fair  and  candid  propofal  to  Mr.  Wood- 
fall,  which  if  he  does  not  meet,  every  man  of 
fenfe  will  know  what  conclufion  ;lo  form; 
but  which  if  he  does  meet,  will  inconteflibly 
prove  to  thofe,  who  have  not  leifure  to  con- 
fider  fa6ts  and  circumflances,  and  who  can- 
Dot  confequently  be  fatisfied  with  the  deduc- 
tions of  reafoning,  that  the  manufcript  of 
Junius  was  actually  written  by  Mr.  Boyd. 

As  to  thofe  who  have  raifed  an  ignorant 
and  vulgar  clamour  againft  his  abilities,  I 
do  not  expect,  much  lefs  do  I  defire,  to 

convince 


PREFACE.  XI 

convince  them  of  a  fatb>   on  which  they 
feem  fo  ill  qualified  to  decide.     Neither  is 
there  much  chance,  that  the  proofs  I  have 
brought  forward,  will  be  powerful  enough 
to  influence  another  clafs  of  readers,  whofe 
minds  are  already  (hut  againft  conviQion, 
and  whom  a  falfe  prejudice  has  predeter- 
mined not  to  believe  this  facl;,  unlefs  it  (hall 
be   eftablifhed   by   abfolute  demonftration. 
Yet  when  Time,  which  refolves  all  things, 
(hall  have  worn  down  thefe  ftubborn  opi- 
nions,   I   cannot   doubt    but    all    men  of 
judgment  will  admit,  that  Mr.  Bo  YD  WAS 
THE  AUTHOR  OF  JUNIUS. 

In  the  mean  while,  however,  I  truft  every 
unbiafTed  mind  will  agree  with  me  on  this 
point ;  and  if  I  (hall,  thereby,  be  enabled  to 
tranfmit  the  memory  of  myFriend  to  pofte- 
rity,  along  with  thofe  literary  honours  which 
his  genius  has  won,  I  (hall  look  back  with 
a  grateful  remembrance  to  the  inftruclive 

hours 


Xll  ,  PREFACE. 

hours  which  I  paffed  in  his  fociety,  and  with 
the  heart-felt  fatisfaftion  of  having  proved 
my  felf  worthy  of  his  friendfhip. 


Paddington, 
February,  1800. 


CONTENTS 

OF      THE 

FIRST     VOLUME. 


Page 
LlFE  of  Mr.  Boyd 

Preface  to  the  Letters  of  the  Freeholder 7 

Letters  of  the  Freeholder . 31 

Letters  of  Democraticus 101 

Letters  of  the  Whig 161 

Preface  to  the  Genuine  Abjlratts  of  Lord  Chat- 
ham1 s  Speeches 247 

Genuine  Abjlratts 255 

Mifcellaneous  Poems. 313 


ERRATA. 

In  Vol.  I.  p.  167,  line  3,  hrjilfcet,  nrtfciltett. 
p.  l7Ot  line  10,  for  commit,  read  comes. 
p.  171,  line  17,  for  irttertia,  read  inertia. 


THE     LIFE 

O  F 

HUGH    BOY  D, 

B  Y 

LAWRENCE  DUNDAS  CAMPBELL. 


VOL.  I. 


THE      LIFE 

O  F 

HUGH     B  0  Y  D. 


HUGH  BOYD  was  the  fecond  Ton  of 
ALEXANDER  MACAU  LEY,  Efq.  of  the 
county  of  Antrim,  in  Ireland,  who  had  long 
been  the  intimate  friend  of  DEAN  SWIFT*. 

Mr. 

*  SWIFT  appointed  Mr.  MACAUL£Y  one  of  the  exe- 
cutors of  his  Will,  in  which  he  fpeaks  of  him  in  the  fol- 
lowing terms  : 

**  Item  1  I  bequeath  to  Alexander  Macauley,  Efq. 
"  the  gold  box  in  which  the  freedom  of  the  city  of 
•*  Dublin  was  prefented  to  me,  as  a  teftimony  of  the 
•'  efteem  and  love'l  have  for  him,  on  account  of  his 
"  great  learning,  fine  natural  parts,  unaffecled  piety  and 
"  benevolence,  and  his  truly  honourable  zeal  in  defence 
"  of  the  legal  rights  of  the  clergy,  in  oppofition  to  all 
"  their  unprovoked  oppreflbrs."  * 

Set  SwifT's  WILL,  in  the  izthvsl.  of  his  works. 
a  2  This 


4  LIFE  OF 

Mr.   Macauley  was   bred  to  the  law,   and 
having  very  early  diftinguifhed  himfelf  at 

This  eulogium  appears,  from  all  accounts,  to  have 
been  very  juftly  merited.  Few  men  of  his  time,  were 
more  univerfally  efteemed  in  Ireland,  than  Mr.  Macau- 
ley.  Nor  was  he  unknown  to  people  of  the  firft  diftinc- 
tion  in  England.  He  had  been  patronized  by  FREDE- 
RICK, PRINCE  OF  WALES,  to  whom  he  was  introduced 
by  the  good  LORD  LYTTI.ETON.  As  a  practical  lawyer, 
he  is  faid  to  have  been  fo  confcientibus,  that  he  always 
refufed  to  be  retained  in  an  iniquitous  caufe.  It  is  alib 
related  of  him,  that  when  BALDWIN  was  Provoft  of 
Dublin  College,  one  of  the  fellows,  a  man  of  rank  and 
great  influence,  was  to  be  expelled  from  it,  for  fome 
very  glaring  impropriety.  The  gentleman  knowing 
Mr.  Macauley 's  intereft  with  Baldwin,  folicited  the 
former,  in  the  moft  earneft  manner,  to  intercede  in  his 
behalf;  promifing,  that  if  he  prevailed  on  Baldwin  to 
mitigate  the  punifliment,  he  fhould  get  him  (Mr.  Ma- 
cauley) appointed  a  feaior  judge  on  the  firft  vacancy, 
and  his  wite's  uncle  made  a  bilhop.  But  Mr.  Macau- 
ley  rejefted  his  offers,  and  refufed  to  interfere,  faying, 
"  he  had  too  high  an  opinion  of  Baldwin,  to  fuppofe  he 
would  ever  punim  unjuftly." 

The  pen-knife,  with  which  the  afTaffin  Guifcard  at- 
tempted to  murder  the  celebrated  HARLEY  Earl  of  OX- 
FORD, was  given  by  his  Lordftiip  to  Swift,  fome  years 
after  that  event  took  place.  Swift  gave  it  to  Mr.  Ma- 
cauley, who,  after  Swift's  death,  ufed  to  keep  it  in 
the  gold  box  mentioned  above :  but  on  Mr.  Macauley's 
demife,  neither  the  box  nor  knife  could  be  found. 

the 


HUGH    BOYD.  5 

the  Irifh  bar,  he  was  firft  appointed  one  of 
the  King's  counfel,  and  afterwards  judge  of 
the  confiftory  court  of  Dublin.  At  the 
time  of  his  death  he  had  a  feat  in  the  Irifh 
Houfe  of  Commons,  and  was,  through  his 
whole  life,  much  efteemed  for  his  talents 
and  virtues.  He  married  Mifs  Boyd,  the 
daughter  of  Hugh  Boyd,  Efq.  of  Bally- 
caftle,  in  the  fame  county  ;  a  gentleman  of 
plentiful  fortune  and  great  refpe&ability. 
By  this  lady,  Mr.  Macauley  had  two  fons  and 
two  daughters.  HUGH,  the  youngefl  of  his 
fons,  and  the  fubje£t  of  this  narrative,  was 
born  at  Ballycaflle,  in  the  county  of  Antrim, 
the  family  feat  of  his  maternal  grandfather, 
in  the  month  of  October  1746,  where  he 
continued  during  his  infancy. 

The  circumftances  of  his  being  named  after 
his  grandfather,  of  his  living  under  his  care 
until  he  was  four  years  old,  and  of  his  mew- 
ing, even  at  that  age,  ftrong  indications  of 
talents,  endeared  him  to  the  old  gentle- 
man, who  beheld  the  dawn  of  his  geni- 
us with  mingled  emotions  of  pleafure  and 
pride,  and  who  ufed  frequently  to  fay, 
"  Hugh  will  become  a  great  man  !" 

The 


6  .  LIFE  or 

The  pleafure  which  every  man  of  fenfi- 
bility  and  reflection  receives  from  contem- 
plating the  gradual  expanfion  of  the  infant 
mind,  renders  him  prone  to  magnify  the 
force  and  merit  of  thofe  fmart,  and  often 
juft  obfervations,  which  fprightly  children 
occafionally  make.  And  the  parent,  or 
•friend,  who  is  employed  in  the  delightful  tafk 
of  "  teaching  the  young  idea  how  to  fhoot/r 
views  whatever  is  commendable,  or  fafcina- 
ting  in  the  darling  objec~l  of  his  care,  with 
an  eye  fo  full  of  pride  and  affection,  as  to 
be  blinded  to  every  defect,  and  to  fee  every 
beauty  through  a  microfcope.  Hence  pa- 
rents are  led  to  cherifh  the  flattering  hope 
of  future  excellence  in  their  children,  in 
which  they  are  fo  frequently  deceived. 
And  hence  we  are  apt  to  miflake  thofe 
(harp  flafhes  of  vivacity  which,  fometimes, 
fparkle  in  the  morning  of  life,  for  that  broad 
effulgence  which  precedes  the  afcenfion  of 
genius.  That  no  accurate  judgment  of  the 
underftanding  can  be  formed  from  the  live- 
ly fallies  of  youth,  experience  fufficiently 
proves.  Innumerable  inftances  might  be 
adduced,  in  which  boys,  who  difplayed  the 

moil 


HUGH   BOYD.  7 

moft  vigorous  as  well  as  brilliant  parts  at 
fchool,  became  weak  and  frivolous  when 
they  mixt  with  the  world ;  and  in  fome 
cafes,  indeed,  forgetting  their  early  acquire- 
ments, have  paITed  through  life,  noticed 
only  for  their  ignorance,  imbecility,  or  dul- 
nefs.  Few  men  have  (hewn  any  real  indi- 
cations of  abilities  before  the  age  of  fixteen, 
when  the  mind  begins  to  reflect  on  its  own 
operations,  and  to  arrange  the  ideas  it  has 
received. 

There  are,  however,  two  anecdotes  re- 
lated of  Mr.  Boyd,  while  he  was  a  boy, 
which  deferve  to  be  mentioned,  as  they 
feem  to  juftify  the  opinion  his  grandfather 
entertained  of  him ;  and  as  they  mark  the 
firft  growth  of  that  fpirit,  and  thofe  fenti- 
ments  which  animated  and  diftinguimed 
him  through  life. 

Mr.  Boyd  had  an  infatiable  third  for  in- 
formation, from  his  earlieft  infancy;  and 
as  foon  as  he  was  taught  to  read,  which 
was  at  five  years  old,  he  became  fond  of 
books,  arid  ufed  to  read  all  he  could  lay  his 
hands  on.  He  was  fca^ce  fix  years  old, 
when  reading  Vertot's  Hiftory  of  the  Revo- 
lutions 


8  LIFE   OF 

lutions  of  Sweden,  one  evening  in  a  retired 
corner  of  the  drawing-room,  he  fuddenly 
exclaimed,  "  I  (hall  never  forgive  Gufla- 
vus  !"  The  vivacity  with  which  he  expref- 
fed  his  difapprobation,  attracted  the  notice, 
and  excited  the  laughter  and  admiration  of 
the  company,  one  of  whom  afked  him,, 
how  the  Swede  had  offended  him  ?  —  "  He 
has  taken  the  crown,"  anfwered  Hugh  ;  "  I 
hope,  Sir,"  anfwered  his  friend,  (who  was 
an  old  fo'dier)  "  you  do  not  diflike  kings?" 
"  Not  always,"  replied  the  boy,  "  but  I 
thought  Guftavus  had  conquered  for  the 
people,  inftead  of  which  I  now  find  it  was  for 


Soon  after  this  occurrence,  another  little 
incident  took  place,  which,  however  trivial 
it  may  feem  to  the  generality  of  my  readers, 
merits  attention  as  being  highly  charac- 
tcriftic  of  Mr.  Boyd  ;  and  as  ferving  to 
fhew,  that  the  playfulnefs  and  humour  with 
which,  during  his  whole  life,  he  ufed  to 
affuage  anger  and  parry  an  attack,  and 
which  muft  be  ftill  frefh  in  the  recollection 
of  all  who  knew  him,  was  a  natural  felicity 
of  difpofition,  rather  than  an  acquired  polite- 

nefs. 


HUGH    BOYD.  Q 

nefs.  He  had  been  one  day  playing  mar- 
bles, and  eager  at  his  fport,  did  not  obferve 
the  approach  of  the  dinner  hour,  and  had 
neglecled  to  warn  his  hands.  On  being 
called  into  the  parlour,  he  was  going  to 
place  himfelf  at  table,  when  his  mother, 
obferving  his  brown  knuckles,  ordered  him 
to  retire,  for  he  had  dirty  hands.  "  It  is 
only  a  little  duft,  madam,  (faid  Hugh)  for 
my  father  and  I  have  always  clean  hands, 
uncontaminated  by  bafe  bribes."  He  was 
of  courfe  permitted  to  fit  down ;  and  ob- 
tained, in  the  approving  fmiles  of  his  pa- 
rents, an  earned  of  the  future  meed  of  his 
large  honour, — the  applaufe  of  the  wife  and 
virtuous. 

He  began  to  pun  while  he  was  yet  in  his 
childhood ;  and  he  often  punned  fo  aptly, 
that  he  both  furprifed  and  amufed  his 
friends.  This  propenfity  fluck  to  him 
through  life. 

He  has  himfelf  told  me  of  his  early  pre- 
dilection for  literature  and  politicks.  That 
he  had  made  but  little  progrefs  at  fehool, 
when  he  felt  the  infpirations  of  fancy ; 
which  he  did  not  indulge  like  the  common 

run 


16  LIFE   OF 

run  of  fprightly  boys,  by  making  Latirt 
verfes  to  his  matter,  but  by  writing  po- 
litical letters,  and  fending  them  to  his 
father.  ,  , 

"  Not  to  name,"  fays  Dr.  Johnfon,  "  the 
fchool,  or  the  mailers  of  men,  illuftrious  for 
literature,  is  a  kind  of  hiftorical  fraud,  by 
which  honeft  fame  is  injurioufly  diminifhed." 
I  am  therefore  happy  at  being  now  able  to 
trace  Mr.  Boyd  through  the  procefs  of  his 
education.  After  being  inftru&ed  in  the  firft 
rudiments  of  knowledge  by  his  father,  whofe 
ample  acquirements  and  mild  authority  fo  well 
fitted  him  for  the  tafk ;  he  was  fent  to  the  well-- 
known and  refpeclable  fchool  of  Mr.  Ball, 
in  Dublin.  At  this  fchool  he  firft  became 
acquainted  with  the  celebrated  Mr.  Henry 
Grattan,  who,  though  two  years  older,  pur- 
fued  his  ftudies  in  the  fame  clafs,  where  their 
early  admiration  of  each  other's  talents,  gave 
birth  to  that  friendship  which  ever  afterwards 
fubfifted  between  them.  It  is  worthy  of  be- 
ing remarked,  as  an  honour  to  the  excellent 
tuition  of  Mr.  Ball,  that  the  prefent  Lord 
Chancellor  of  Ireland,  the  late  Mr.  Forbes, 
together  with  many  other  gentlemen,  emi- 
nent 


HUGH   BOYD.  II 

nent  for  their  literary  acquirements,  were 
ulfo  educated  under  his  aufpicious  care. 

At  this  fchool  Mr.  Boyd  made  great  pro- 
ficiency in  his  ftudies  ;  and  his  aftonifhing 
memory,  no  lefs  than  his  prompt  difcern- 
ment,  and  fine  tafte,  excited  the  admiration 
of  all  who  knew  him.  Yet  the  praifes  which 
were  lavilhed  upon  him,  did  not  infufe  into 
his  difpofition  any  thing  of  that  vanity  or 
petulance,  which  eftranges  a  boy  from  the 
love  of  his  fchool-feilows :  his  unafluming 
manner,  together  with  his  gentle  but  manly 
and  ardent  fpirit,  made  him  alike  the  favour- 
ite of  his  companions,  and  his  mafter. 

So  early  as  the  age  of  fourteen  he  was 
placed  at  the  Trinity  College,  Dublin,  and 
was  entered  a  gentleman  commoner  of  that 
feminary  at  the  November  term  in  1760. 
About  this  time  he  became  known  to  the 
late  Mr.  Flood,  who  was  then  the  greateft 
ornament  of  the  Irifli  Houfe  of  Commons ; 
and  whofe  eloquence  fird  produced  in  Mr. 
Boyd's  mind  that  defire  of  attending  par- 
liamentary debates  which  fo  much  diftin- 
guifhed  his  future  life.  The  attention  with 
which  he  ufed  to  liftcn  to  Mr.  Flood's  pri- 
vate 


12  LIFE   OF 

vate  converfation,  and  the  accurate  reports 
which  he  ufed  to  make  of  his  publick 
fpeeches,  induced  that  accomplished  man  to 
cherifh  thofe  rifing  talents,  which,  in  their 
maturity,  he  continued  to  befriend. 

At  college,  he  was  as  much  remarked  for 
his  facility  of  acquiring,  as  for  his  power  of 
retaining  knowledge.  Without  feeming  to 
attend  to  any  thing  but  the  pleafures  of  fo- 
ciety,  he  made  very  confiderable  advances 
in  literature  and  fcience ;  and  in  clafiical 
learning  he  was  equalled  by  few,  and  fur- 
paired  by  none  of  his  fellow- flu  dents.  He 
poffefled,  indeed,  many  peculiar  advantages 
in  the  courfe  of  his  ftudies.  His  father, 
who  was  himfelf  a  man  of  great  information, 
attended  to  the  cultivation  of  his  fon's  mind 
with  the  utmoft  care,  and  fpared  no  expence 
whatever  in  his  education  ;  for  he  appointed 
as  his  tutors,  firft  Mr.  Marten,  and  then 
Mr.  Kearney,  both  men  of  literary  emi- 
nence at  that  time  in  Dublin,  and  of  great 
refpeftability  in  private  life.  Mr.  Marten 
ufed  to  characterize  his  pupil,  by  faying, 
"  that  he  united  the  meeknefs  of  the  lamb, 
with  the  fpirit  of  the  lion." 

In 


HUGH.  BO  YD.  13 

In  1765,  he  took  his  degree  of  Mafter  of 
Arts ;  and  his  grandfather,  Boyd,  whofe 
affection  for  '  im  grew  with  his  years,  with  jd 
him  to  enter  into  the  Church  :  but  th^  at  h 
of  that  virtuous  and  venerable  man,  which 
happened  the  fame  year,  induced  him  to 
turn  his  thoughts  to  a  profeflion  more  con- 
genial to  the  native  vivacity  of  his  mind. 
He  accordingly  fixed  on  the  army ;  but  his 
father  being  defirous  he  fhould  go  into  the 
infantry,  and  he  preferring  the  cavalry, 
fome  delay  in  confequence  took  place,  and 
before  the  matter  was  decided,  Mr.  Macauley 
died  in  1760,  of  an  illnefs  of  only  a  few 
days  :  and  no  WILL  being  found  among  his 
papers,  Mr.  Boyd  was  left  totally  unprovid- 
ed for,  the  whole  of  the  family  eftate  being 
fettled  by  right  of  inheritance  on  the  eideft 
fon. 

As  this  fudden  and  unexpected  lofs  darned 
his  hopes  of  rifing  in  the  army,  he  relin- 
quifhed  his  defign  of  purfuing  that  line  of 
life ;  and  his  attachment  to  literature  and 
politicks  led  him  to  choofe  the  law,  as  the 
profeflion,  with  which,  above  all  others,  his 
favourite  fludies  were  the  moil  intimately 

connected. 


14  LIFE   OF 

connected,  and  in  which,  therefore,  he  could 
attend  to  them,  without  neglecting  his  duty. 
With  thefe  views,  he  left  his  native  coun- 
try, a  few  months  after  the  death  of  his 
father,  and  came  to  London,  in  fearch  of 
fortune  and  fame.  In  hopes  of  procuring 
the  patronage  of  the  late  Marquis,  then  Earl 
of  Hertford,  to  whom  his  father  had  ren- 
dered many  important  and  acknowledged 
fervices,  he  called  at  his  Lordfhip's  houfe, 
fhortly  after  his  arrival.  But  that  noble 
lord  was  pofleffed  of  fuch  peculiar  delicacy 
of  feeling  a.r\dfentime?it,  that  he  (hrunk  from 
an  interview  with  the  fon  of  his  deceafed 
friend  ;  who  frequently  waited  on  him  with- 
out once  gaining  admittance  to  his  prefence. 
The  worthy  earl's  behaviour,  however,  ap- 
peared no  way  furp riling  to  Mr.  Boyd, 
whofe  early  acquaintance  with  the  world  had 
enabled  him  to  form  a  competent  judgment 
of  the  motives  and  aclions  of  men.  He  was 
little  difcouraged,  therefore,  by  this  circum- 
flance ;  and  the  refpeclability  of  his  family, 
together  with  the  elegance  of  his  deport- 
ment, as  well  as  the  infmuating  politenefs 
of  his  addrefs,  foon  procured  him  an  intro- 
duction 


HUGH    BOYD.  1$ 

du6tion  into  the  gay  circles  of  famionable 
life  ;  nor  was  he  long  unnoticed  in  the  lite^ 
rary  fphere.  He  became  acquainted  with 
Goldfmith,  Doftor  Armftrong,  and  David 
Garrick,  who  had  then  reached  the  fummit 
of  their  fame,  and  with  whom  he  ever  af- 
terwards continued  in  habits  of  intimacy. 
About  this  time  he  alfo  became  acquainted 
with  the  celebrated  Mrs.  Macauley,  to  whofe 
hufband  he  was  related.  Charmed  with  his 
wit  and  talents,  me  frequently  invited  him 
to  her  houfe,  and  there  he  had  conftant 
opportunities  of  mixing  in  the  converfation 
of  the  mod  diftinguimed  geniufes  of  the  age. 
In  famionable  fociety  he  was  firft  noticed 
by  Lord  Effingham,  Lord  Verney,  and  Sir 
Francis  Delaval,  and  afterwards  by  the  old 
Duke  of  Ancafter,  and  the  Earl  of  Afh- 
burnham.  His  great  {kill  at  the  game  of 
chefs,  added  to  his  other  acquirements, 
made  the  two  larl-mentioned  noblemen 
court  his  company  with  the  utmoft  folici- 
tude ;  and  through  them  he  was  ele&ed  a 
member  of  the  well-known  chefs-club  to 
which  they  belonged,  and  of  which  he  foon 
became  the  next  bejft  player  to  Count  Bruhl, 

the 


l6  LIFE   OF 

the  Saxon  Envoy.  He  was  fo  great  a 
favourite  of  the  old  Duke's,  that  he  was 
always  afked  to  the  fplendid  and  fump- 
tuous  dinners,  which  his  Grace  took  fuch 
delight  in  giving.  At  one  of  thefe  en- 
tertainments, he  chanced  to  fit  next  to 
•  Soame  Jenyns,  with  whofe  converfation 
he  was  fo  much  gratified,  that  when  the 
reft  of  the  company  adjourned  at  an  early 
hour  to  the  chefs-room,  as  it  was  the  Duke's 
cuftom,  he  whifpered  tojenyns,  that  a  bot- 
tle of  old  port  might  tend  as  much  to  make 
them  better  known  to  each  other,  as  a  game 
at  chefs  : — Jenyns  readily  took  the  hint, 
and  the  evening  was  fpeht  very  much  to 
their  mutual  fatisfaftion. 

Yet  this  mode  of  life  did  not  feduce  him. 
from  his  books.  He  cultivated  politicks 
and  polite  literature  with  the  utmoft  affidu- 
ity :  and  if  he  beftowed  not  an  equal  atten- 
tion on  the  feverer  ftudies  of  the  law,  it  is 
to  be  attributed  partly  to  the  livelinefs  of 
his  fancy,  and  partly  to  the  neceflity  he  was 
under  of  providing  for  the  day  that  was 
paffing  over  him,  rather  than  to  any  want 
of  application. 

The 


HUGH    BOYD.  IJ 

The  inborn  generofity  of  his  mind,  to- 
gether with  his  exquifite  fenfibility,  prompt- 
ed him  to  a6ls  of  benevolence,  which  his 
fcanty  and  precarious  income  was  ill  fuited 
to  fupply ;  and  before  he  had  been  a  year 
in  London,  he  was  involved  in  pecuniary 
entanglements,  from  which,  alas  !  he  was 
never  at  any  period  of  his  life  to  be  entirely 
releafed.  The  perplexed  ftate  of  his  mind, 
however,  foured  not  the  fweetnefs  of  his 
difpofition,  nor  clouded  his  wonted  gaiety. 
All  his  forrows  were  locked  faft  in  his  bread, 
and  no  one  could  difcover,  either  by  his 
countenance,  or  his  manners,  that  he  labour- 
ed under  the  fmallefl  uneafinefs. 

This  happy  fuavity  of  temper,  joined  to 
his  dignified  urbanity  and  chaftened  hu- 
mour, rendered  him  an  univerfal  favourite 
among  the  fair  fex.  Nor  was  he  unmindful 
of  their  admiration.  He  paid  his  addreffes 
to  Mifs  Mo R PHY,  a  young  lady  altogether 
worthy  of  his  noble  mind,  and  after  an  ac- 
quaintance of  one  year  and  fome  weeks,  he 
married  her  in  December  1767.  By  this 
marriage  his  circumftances  were  made  fome- 
what  eafier,  as  Mifs  Morphy  poflefled  a 

VOL.  i,  b  handfome 


IB  LIFE    OF 

handfome  competency,  and  as  her  good  fenfe 
and  many  amiable  qualities  often  availed  to 
moderate,  if  not  to  reftrain  thofe  extrava- 
gancies to  which  he  was  unfortunately  fo 
prone. 

Through  his  marriage  he  became  known 
to  the  three  Mr.  Nefbets,  who  were  Mrs. 
Boyd's  guardians,  and  to  their  nephew  the 
prefent  Mr.  John  Nefbet,  member  for  Gatton, 
as  well  as  to  the  late  Mr.  Robert  Cooper  Lee. 
To  the  two  laft-mentioned  gentlemen,  Mr. 
Boyd  was  under  the  greateft  obligations, 
and  the  aftive  friendfhip  which  they  on  all 
occafions  manifefted  for  him,  defer ves  the 
higheft  praife. 

About  this  period  he  alfo  fell  into  the 
acquaintance  of  the  late  Mr.  JOHNSTUART, 
of  Hampftead,  a  gentleman  who  poffeffed  a 
mind  congenial  to  his  own,  whofe  ardent 
and  difintereftcd  friendfhip  knew  no  bounds 
but  virtue  and  honour,  and  whofe  affeclion 
for  him  continued  to  glow  with  undiminifhed 
warmth  to  the  laft  moment  of  his  life  *. 

Perhaps 

*The  talents,  no  lefs  than  the  virtues  of  Mr.  STUART, 
would  have  entitled  him  to  my  particular  praife,  if  grati- 
tude 


HUGH  BOYD.  1£ 

Perhaps    there    never   was   a    friendfhip 
more  durable  and  fincere,  than  that  which 

fubfifted 

tude  for  his  friendly  attentions  towards  me  did  not  call 
forth  the  warmeft  tribute  of  my  heart. 

He  was  defcended  from  the  refpeclable  family  of  Sir 
Simeon  Stuart,  who  were  a  branch  of  the  royal  flem  of 
the  Stuarts,  and  who  came  to  England  with  JAMES  the 
Firft,  and  fettled  in  Northamptonmire,  in  which  county 
his  father  refided,  and  he  was  born.  He  was  fent  to 
fchool  at  Northampton,  and  afterwards  ftudied  phyfic  at 
Edinburgh,  where  he  took  his  degree  as  Do6lor  of  Medi- 
cine, On  his  return  to  England,  he  was  appointed  one  of 
the  phyficians  to  the  army  in  Canada,  under  General 
Wolfe,  and  was  prefent  at  the  battle  of  Quebec.  He  had 
lived  on  terms  of  tricndfhip  with  that  diftinguifhed  general, 
and  his  regard  for  him  was  fo  ftrong,  that  he  never  talked 
of  his  eminent  abilities,  and  early,  but  glorious  death, 
without  tears  in  his  eyes.  Upon  the  conclufion  of  the 
war  in  1 763,  he  fettled  at  Philadelphia  in  the  line  of  his 
profeflion,  and  entered  into  partnerfhip  with  Mr.  Lauchlin 
Macleane,  who  was  afterwards  fecretary  to  Lord  Shel- 
burne.  In  this  bufinefs  they  were  very  fuccefsful,  and 
would  have  acquired  an  immenfe  fortune,  if  an  affair  of 
gallantry  betweenMacleane  and  one  oi  theirfair patients,  had 
not  obliged  them  to  make  a  precipitate  retreat  acrofs  the 
Atlantic.  On  their  arrival  in  England  they  kept  houfe 
together  in  London,  and  lived  for  fome  time  in  a  very 
fplendid  ftyle :  but  Macleane,  who  was  not  yet  fatisfied, 
gambled  both  in  the  Alley  and  in  St.  James's-ftreet,  and 
not  only  fpent  his  own  fortune,  but  fo  feverely  injured 
b  i  Mr. 


2O  LIFE  OF 

fubfifled  between  thefe   two   accomplifhed 
men. 

In 

Mr.  Stuart's,  as  to  render  it  neceflary  for  him  to  retrench 
his  expences,  and  totally  alter  his  mode  of  life.  About 
this  time  he  travelled  into  France  for  the  recovery  of  his 
health,  and  while  at  Paris,  he  became  acquainted  with 
David"  Home  and  Adam  Smith,  who  then  refided  there, 
and  who  introduced  him  to  the  celebrated  Literary  Society 
of  which  Voltaire  and  D'Alembert  were  the  moft  diftin- 
guimed  members.  On  his  return  to  England  he  fell  into 
the  acquaintance  of  Mr.  Laurence  Sullivan,  who  fo  often 
filled  the  chair  at  the  India  Houfe ;  and  through  his  in- 
tereft  was  much  employed  in  Indian  affairs.  He  now  re- 
linquifhed  his  original  profeflion ;  and  having  flill  a  hand- 
fome  fortune,  he  took  a  houfe  at  Hampftead,  with  about 
fix  acres  of  ground  adjoining  to  it,  which  he  formed  into 
a  garden,  and  laid  out  with  exquifite  tafte.  To  this  place 
he  was  extremely  attached,  and  here  he  chiefly  refided 
during  the  remainder  of  his  life,  enjoying  the  fociety  of 
friends  relpeclable  for  their  underftanding,  learning,  and 
virtues,  and  living  with  a  degree  of  complacency  and 
happinefs  which  human  frailty  very  rarely  attains.  In 
December  1798,  he  was  feized  with  a  fevere  complaint  in 
his  lungs,  which,  after  a  few  weeks,  proved  fatal,  and  he 
died  in  the  beginning  of  January  following,  in  the  65th 
year  of  age. 

He  was  a  man  ol  a  tall  and  graceful  figure,  dignified  in 
his  deportment,  and  elegant  in  his  mien ;  of  a  countenance 
open,  animated,  and  cheerful,  uncommonly  engaging 
when  relaxed  by  gaiety,  pleafant  even  when  overcaft 

by 


HUGH  BO  YD.  21 

In  the  fummer  of  1768,  Mr.  Boyd  went 
to  Ireland  for  a  few  months,  on  fome  pri- 
vate 

by  care.  Thofe  who  knew  him  fifty  years  ago,  ufed  to 
fay  he  was  the  handfomeft  man  they  had  ever  feen  ;  and 
though  age  and  ficknefs  had  enfeebled  his  conftitution,  the 
alteration  which  they  had  made. in  his  appearance  was 
wonderfully  flight. 

He  poflefTed  a  vigorous  and  highly  cultivated  under- 
ftanding,  a  quick  and  accurate  difcernment,  a  found  and 
difcriminating  judgment,  a  lively  fancy,  a  tenacious  me- 
mory, and  a  re6ned  tafle.  His  acquirements  were  very 
extenfive  and  various.  He  was  equally  fkilled  in  the 
phylical  and  moral  fciences,  in  abftrufe  learning,  and  in 
the  fine  arts.  In  moft  fubjefts  he  was  deeply  read,  of 
every  one  he  had  a  general  knowledge.  Having  mixt 
much  with  the  world,  he  had  attained  great  proficiency  in 
the  important  ftudy  of  human  life,  andhLsobfervations  on 
men  and  manners,  though  fometimes  fevere,  were,  for  the 
moft  part,  juft,  ftriking,  and  forcible.  His  eonverfation 
was  at  once  pleafing  and  inftmctive,  and  he  ufed  to  relate 
anecdotes,  of  which  he  had  an  inexhauftible  (lore,  with  a 
peculiar  felicity  and  eafe.  His  manners  were  polifhed, 
affable,  and  inlinuating,  and  though  his  temper  was  fome- 
what  irritable,  yet  was  his  difpofhion  mild  and  placable, 
and  his  heart  fufceptible  of  the  utmoft  tendernefs.  He 
uniformly  praftifed  the  moft  prompt  and  liberal  charity, 
regulated  by  an  enlightened  prudence,  and  a  dignified 
oeconomy.  In  his  mode  of  life  he  was  alike  diftant  from 
extravagance  and  parfimony ;  he  was  too  confederate  to  fall 
into  the  one,  too  gcnerou*  not  to  defpife  the  other.  It 

vrsw 


22  LIFE    OF 

vate  bufmefs.  During  his  (lay  in  Dublin, 
he  was  conftantly  in  the  company  of  Mr. 
Flood,  who,  on  that,  as  on  every  other 
occafion,  (hewed  him  the  greateft  poffible 
attention,  and  who  thought  fo  highly  of 
his  abilities,  that  he  every  where  talked  of 
him  as  a  prodigy  of  genius. 

At  this  period  political  parties  ran  very 
high  in  Ireland,  and  the  newfpapers  were 
filled  with  controverfies,  in  which  men  of 
the  firfl  talents  in  the  kingdom  were  en- 
gaged. One  evening,  while  Mr.  Flood  fat 
at  his  own  table,  after  dinner,  entertaining  a 
large  company,  of  which  Mr.  Boyd  was  one, 
he  received  an  anonymous  note,  enclofing 
a  letter  on  the  ftate  of  parties,  figned  SIN- 
DERCOMBE.  The  note  contained  a  requefl:, 
that  Mr.  Flood  would  perufe  the  enclofed 
letter,  and  that  if  it  met  his  approbation,  he 

was  his  chief  ambition  to  maintain  independence,  to  be  of 
ufe  to  his  friends,  and  to  relieve  indigent  merit  wherever 
he  met  it.  And  at  the  clofe  of  his  long  and  well-fpent 
life,  it  appeared  to  me,  that  his  virtuous  ambition  was 
completely  fatisfied.  Carefled  by  his  friends,  admired  by 
his  acquaintance,  and  beloved  by  his  fervants  and  depend- 
ents, his  death  was  deeply  regretted  by  all  who  knew  him, 
and  his  memory  lives  in  their  eilirnation. 

would 


HUGH   BOYD.  Q% 

would  get  it  publifhed.  Mr.  Flood  read  it 
to  the  company,  who  declared,  with  one 
burft  of  applaufe,  that  it  mould  be  fent  im- 
mediately to  the  printer.  It  confequently 
appeared  in  a  morning  paper*,  and  pro- 
duced 

*  Notwithftanding  my  moft  diligent  inquiries,  I  have 
not  been  able  to  find  the  particular  Paper  in  which  this 
letter  appeared  ;  and  I  have  confequentlyAfpoken  of  its 
merits  from  the  opinion  of  others. 

Thofe  who  were  not  particularly  converfant  with  our 
hiftory  during  the  commonwealth,  were  at  a  lofs  to  dif- 
cover  what  the  author  alluded  to,  by  adopting  the  figna- 
ture  of  Sindenombe,  and  Boyd  ufed  to  (hew  great  anxiety 
to  explain  it  to  them,  whenever  the  fubjeft  was  talked  of. 
Sindercombe  was  a  perfon  who  had  undertaken  to  murder 
OLIVER  CROMWELL,  but  who  was  prevented  from  exe- 
cuting his  purpofe  by  feveral  unaccountable  accidents. 
At  laft  CROMWELL  difcovered  him,  and  he  was  tried, 
convicled,  and  condemned ;  but  the  voice  of  the  people 
was  raifed  fo  high  in  his  favour,  that  the  Protestor  deemed 
it  prudent  to  difpatch  him  privately,  and  he  was  found 
dead  in  his  bed  on  the  morning  which  had  been  appointed 
for  his  execution.  CROMWELL  artfully  gave  it  out,  that 
Sindercombe  had  poifoned  himfelf,  left  the  people  (hould 
take  the  alarm  ;  but  it  appears  evident,  from  the  concur- 
rent teftimony  of  the  moft  refpe&able  writers  of  that  time, 
that  CROMWELL  had  given  Barkftead  pofitive  orders  to 
fmother  him  in  bed.  HUME  treats  this  fubjecT:  rather 
more  lightly  than  it  deferves,  and  gives  credit  to  the  ftory 

of 


24  LIFE  OF 

duced  a  very  flrong  fenfation  on  the  public 
mind,  as  well  from  the  clear  and   forcible 

reafoning 

of  the  poifon.  The  famous  Colonel  TITUS,  in  his  fpirited 
little  pamphlet,  intitled  Killing  no  Murder,  beftows  the  fol- 
lowing eulogium  on  Sindercombe. 

ft  The  brave  Sindercombe  has  (hewn  as  great  a  mind,  as 
any  old  Rome  could  boafl  of;  and  had  he  lived  there,  his 
name  had  been  regiftered  with  Brutus  and  Cattt  and  he  had 
his  ilatues  as  well  as  they. 

"But  I  will  not  have  fofinifter  an  opinion  of  ourfelves  (as 
little  generpfity  as  flavery  hath  left  us)  as  to  think  fo  great 
a  virtue  can  want  its  monuments  even  among  us.  Certain- 
ly in  every  virtuous  mind,  there  are  ftatues  reared  to  i$Y«- 
dercombe.  Whenever  we  read  the  elogies  of  thofe  that  have 
died  for  their  country ;  when  we  admire  thofe  great  exam- 
ples of  magnanimity,  that  have  tired  tyrants  cruelties  ; 
when  we  extol  their  conftancy,  whom  neither  bribe  nor 
terrors  could  make  betray  their  friends,  it  is  then  we  ereft 
Sindercombe  ftatues,  and  grave  him  monuments;  where 
all  that  can  be  faid  of  a  great  and  noble  mind,  we  juftly 
make  an  epitaph  for  him :  and  though  the  tyrant  caufcd 
him  to  be  fmothered,  left  the  people  fliould  hinder  an 
open  murder,  yet  he  never  will  be  able  to  fmother  his 
memory,  or  his  own  villany.  His  poifon  was  but  a  poor 
and  common  device,  to  impofe  only  on  thofe  that  under- 
ilood  not  tyrants  practices,  and  are  unacquainted  (if  any 
be)  with  his  cruelties  and  falfehoods.  He  may,  therefore, 
if  he  pleafe,  take  away  the  (lake  from  Sindercombe  s  grave, 
and  if  he  have  a  mind  it  mould  be  known  how  he  died, 
let  him  fend  thither  the  pillows  and  feather  beds  with 

which 


HUGH    BO  YD.  25 

rcafoning  it  contained,  as  from  the  uncom- 
mon beauty  and  energy  of  its  ftyle.     Every 
endeavour  was  made,  without  effecl:,  to  dif- 
cover  the  author.      That  Flood   fufpefted 
Mr.   Boyd  is  extremely  probable;    but  I 
know  not  that  he  ever  hinted  fuch  a  fufpi- 
cion  to  any  one.  Mrs.  Boyd  always  thought 
that  Sindercombe  was  her  hufband's  pro- 
duclion,  from  feveral  circumftances  which 
no  one  elfe  poffeffed  the  means  of  obferving  ; 
and  many  years  afterwards,  (he  was  fatisfied 
that  her  conjecture  was   founded  in   facl: 
though    Mr.  Boyd    himfelf,    never,    either 
acknowledged   or  denied,  that  he  was  the 
author.     This  doubtlefs  was  his  firft  attempt 
at   preferving  that  fecrecy  in  his  political 
writings,  in  which  he  was  always  fo  fuccefs- 
ful,  as  well  as  his  firft  eflay  in  that  fpecies  of 
literary  compofition,  in  which  he  afterwards 
fo  much  excelled. 

which  Bark/lead  and  his  hangman  (mothered  him.  But 
to  conclude,  let  not  this  monfter  think  himfelf  the  more 
fecure  that  he  has  fupprefled  one  great  fpirit,  he  may  be 
confident  that  hngus  poft  ilium  fequitur  ordi  idem  pctentium 


A  few 


26  LIFE    OF 

A  few  days  fubfequent  to  the  publication 
of  Sindercombe,  Mr.  Boyd  returned  to 
London;  and  in  the  autumn  of  1768,  he 
took  a  houfe  in  Great  Marlborough-ftreet, 
in  which  he  lived  for  fome  years  in  a  very 
genteel  ftyle,  though  he  never  had  yet 
been  fet  free  from  the  pecuniary  encum- 
brances with  which,  fince  the  death  of  his 
father,  he  had  been  conftantly  harrafled. 
About  this  time,  however,  he  received  fome 
fmall  addition  to  his  income,  by  the  death 
of  his  coufm  Adam  Boyd.  His  grandfather 
Boyd,  had,  in  his  will,  bequeathed  to  him, 
failing  of  his  coufm,  a  freehold  edate,  in  the 
county  of  Antrim,  on  the  condition,  en- 
joined in  the- drifted  manner,  of  changing 
his  name  from  Macauley  to  Boyd.  In  con- 
formity, therefore,  with  the  will  of  his  grand- 
father, he  now  adopted  the  name  of  Boyd, 
and  became  poffefled  of  this  edate,  the  grofs 
rental  of  which  amounted  to  £600  per  ann.; 
but  the  feveral  annuities  with  which  it  was 
burthened,  together  with  the  litigations  to 
which  fome  of  them  gave  rife,  reduced  that 
fum  to  a  mere  trifle,  and  the  edate  being 

entailed 


HUGH    BOYD.  27 

entailed  to  the  heirs  male  of  his  body,  he 
could  neither  fell  any  part  of  it,  nor  even 
grant  a  (ingle  fecurity  upon  it,  in  order  to 
liquidate  thofe  debts  that  were  in  the  firfl 
inftance  contracted  by  the  unfortunate 
neceflities,  and  peculiar  hardftiips  of  his  early 
youth. 

Yet  thefe  were  matters  which  gave  him 
hardly  any  concern.  He  was  ever  more 
anxious  about  the  affairs  of  his  friends,  than 
his  own :  and  he  has  frequently  plunged 
himfelf  into  difficulties,  to  fave  the  credit, 
or  to  relieve  the  diftrefs  of  the  man  he 
loved.  A  mind  fo  conftituted,  was  not  to 
be  ruffled  by  ordinary  adverfities ;  and 
blefled  beyond  mod  men  in  the  matrimonial 
connection  he  had  formed,  he  enjoyed  the 
utmoft  ferenity  amidft  the  ilorms  of  life, 
and  the  greateft  content  and  happinefs,  not- 
withftanding  the  vexations  and  embarrafT- 
ments  by  which  he  was  furrounded. 

It  was  this  tranquil  and  eafy  temper,  no 
lefs  than  his  fanguine  conditution,  that  en- 
abled him  to  call  into  aftion  all  the  fpirit 
and  vigour  of  his  mind,  whenever  he 
thought  proper  to  exert  them,  and  at  the 

fame 


28  LIFE  OF 

fame  time  to  beftow  the  moil  watchful  at- 
tention and  pertinacious  diligence,  on  what- 
ever bufinefs  he  was  induced  to  undertake. 
But  his  early  attachment  to  politicks  be- 
came every  day  more  flrong,  and  neither 
the  hope  of  emolument,  nor  the  earned  en- 
treaties of  his  friends,  could  ihcite  him  to 
purfue  the  law  prcfeffionally,  though  he  had 
attained  confiderable  knowledge  both  of  its 
principles  and  praclice.  He,  therefore,  de- 
dicated his  whole  time  to  politicks  and  lite- 
rature ;  and  towards  the  latter  end  of  the 
year  1768,  he  commenced  a  correfpondence 
with  the  daily  paper,  entitled  the  Publick 
Advertifer,  at  that  time  conducted  by  Mr. 
HENRY  SAMPSON  WOODFALL,  which  he 
kept  up  with  the  greatefl  caution,  and  the 
moft  impenetrable  fecrecy,  for  three  years 
and  fome  months.  The  nature  and  pur- 
port of  this  correfpondence  he  never  dif- 
clofed  to  any  one  of  his  friends,  not  even 
to  Mrs.  Boyd ;  and  he  died  in  poffeflion  of 
his  fecret.  Mrs.  Boyd,  however,  has  long 
been  convinced,  from  a  variety  of  flrong 
concurring  circumflances,  that  this  fecret 
was  nothing  lefs  than  his  being  the  writer 

of 


HUGH    BOYD.  29 

of  thofe  celebrated  Letters  wHich  appeared 
in  the  Publick  Advertifer,  under  the  figna- 
tureof  JUNIUS,  during  the  years  1769,  1770, 
1771,  and  in  January  1772. 

This  being  a  matter,  not  only  of  great 
importance  to  Mr'.  Boyd  as  a  writer,  but 
alfo,  of  no  fmall  curiofity  in  the  Hiftory  of 
Englifh  Literature,  I  have  thought  it  in- 
cumbent on  me  to  fathom  it  with  the  utmoft 
attention,  to  inveftigate  every  channel  of 
intelligence  connected  with  it,  and  finally, 
to  afcertain  whether  the  fuppofition,  that 
he  was  the  author  of  the  letters  of  Junius, 
be  founded  in  truths'  The  fum  of  my  inqui- 
ries  imprefTes  me  with  the  firmed  conviclion 
that  Mr.  Boyd  was,  in  reality,  the  writer  of 
thofe  letters ;  for  although  there  be  no  di- 
reel;  pofitive  proof,  yet  are  the  internal,  as 
well  as  circumftantial  evidence  fo  ftrong, 
that  no  candid  rnan  of  tafte  or  judgment 
will  deny  me  the  conclufion  I  have  drawn. 

This  fubjecl  has  already  been  noticed  by 
Mr.  ALMON,  in  his  " Biographical,  Litera- 
ry, and  Political  Anecdotes,"  and  it  has  been 
{lightly  touched  upon  in  the  Preface  to  a 
former  edition  of  Mr.  Boyd's  Life.  Since 

the 


3O  LIFE    OF 

the  publication  of  thefe works,  Mr.  GEORGE 
CHALMERS  *  has  informed  the  public,  that 
"  he  has  collected  documents  t  "which  com- 
pletely fatisfy  him  that  Mr.  Boyd  was  the 
author  ofjunius;"  and  this  declaration  of 
Mr.  Chalmers  gave  rife  to  a  J  controverfy 
in  the  newfpapers  which  has  attracted  fome 
attention. 

Thofe  who  have  maintained  that  Mr. 
Boyd  was  not  the  writer  of  the  letters  fign- 
ed  jfitnius,  have  produced  only  one  argu- 
ment in  fupport  of  their  opinion,  which  has 
even  the  fainted  colour  of  plaufibility. 
They  affirm,  that  his  abilities  and  informa- 
tion swere  altogether  unequal  to  the  tafk  of 
compofing  thofe  letters,  and  that  his  eflays  in 
.the  fi  Indian  Obferver,"  are  every  way  fo 
inferior  to  them,  that  it  is  not  to  be  believed 
they  could  both  have  been  written  by  the 
fame  perfon.  In  the  firft  inftance,  there- 
fore, I  mall  meet  them  upon  their  own 

*  See  the  Poftfcript  to  his  "  Supplemental  Apology." 
t  I  underftand  it  is  Mr.  Chalmers's  intention  fpeedily 

to  publifh  thefe  documents. 

J  For  an  account  of  this  controverfy,  fee  the  Appendix 

,|o  the  Lite. 

ground, 


HUGH   BOYD.  3! 

ground,  and  from  internal  evidence  fatisfac- 
torily  eflablifh  the  facl:,  that  he  was  fully 
capable  of  writing   the  letters  of  Junius. 
And  as  to  the  inferiority  of  his  papers  in 
the  "  Indian  Obferver,"  admitting  that  in- 
feriority,  for  the  fake1  of  argument,    in  a 
much  wider  latitude  than  truth  obliges  me 
to  grant,  it  is  yet  merely  a  vulgar  error  to 
fuppofe,  that  becaufe  a  man  has  once  writ- 
ten well,  he  can  never,  under  any  circum- 
ftances.  write  ill;  and  that  becaufe  a  .great 
genius  has  written  with  peculiar  beauty  and 
energy  on  one  particular  fubjecl:,  he  mud 
of  neceffity  always  difplay,  at  leaft  an  obvi- 
ous refemblance  of  the  like  excellence,  in 
all  his  fubfequent  productions.     Such  a  fup- 
pofition,  though  fomewhat  plaufible,  is  in 
fa6l,  utterly  fallacious,  and  can  be  entertain- 
ed only  by  thofe  who  have  a  very  fuper- 
ficial  knowledge  of  the  constitution  of  the 
human  mind,  as  well  as  a  limited  acquaint- 
ance with  literature.     It  is  a  fophifm,  which 
a  due  inquiry  into  the  philofophy  of  criti- 
cifm,  and  an  examination  of  the  different 
writings  of  fome  eminent  men,  would  very 
fully  expofe,  but  which,  in  the  prefent  in- 

ftance, 
3 


32  LIFE   OF 

fiance,  I  think  I  cannot  more  fatisfaftorily 
refute,   than  in   the    nervous   language '  of 
Doclor  Johnfon.     "  There  are,"    fays  he, 
"  many   poflible    caufes  of  that  inequality 
st  which  we  may  fo  frequently  obferve  iri 
"  the  performances  of  the  fame  man,   from 
**  the  influence  of  which  no  ability  or  induf- 
"  try  is  fufficiently  fecured,  and  which  have 
"  fo  often  fullied  the  fplendour  of  genius,  that 
"  the  wit,  as  well  as  the  conqueror,  may  be 
"  properly  cautioned  not  to  indulge  his  pride 
"  with  too  early  triumphs,  but  to  defer  to 
"  the  end  of  his  life,  his  eflimate  of  happinefs. 
"  ******  Though  we  fuppofe  that  a  man 
"  by  his  fortune  can  avoid  the  neceffity  of 
"  dependence,    and  by  his  fpirit  can  repel 
"  the  ufurpations  of  patronage,  yet  he  may 
"  eafily,   by  writing  long,  happen  to  write 
"  ill.      There   is   a    general    fuccedion   of 
"  events,  in  which  contraries  are  produced 
"  by   periodical    vicifiitudes ;    labour    and 
"  care  are  rewarded  by  fuccefs,  fuccefs  pro- 
"  duces  confidence,  confidence  relates  in- 
"  duftry,  and  negligence  ruins  that  reputa- 
"  tion  which  accuracy  had  raifed. 

"He 


HUGH  BOYD.  33 

"  He, that  happens  not  to  be  lulled  by 
"  praife  into  fupinenefs,  may  be  animated 
t(  by  it  to  undertakings  above  his  ftrength, 
"  or  incited  to  fancy  himfelf  alike  qualified 
"  for  every  kind  of  compofition,  and  able 
"  to  comply  with  the  publick  tafle  through 
"  all  its  variations.  By  fome  opinion  like 
"  this,  many  men  have  been  engaged  at  an 
"  advanced  age,  in  attempts  which  they 
"  had  not  time  to  complete,  and  after  a  few 
"  weak  efforts,  funk  into  the  grave  with 
"  vexation  to  fee  the  rifing  generation  gain 
"  ground  upon  them.  From  thefe  failures 
"  the  higheft  genius  is  not  exempt ;  that 
"judgment  which  appears  fo  penetrating, 
<;  when  it  is  employed  on  the  works  of 
"  others,  very  often  fails  where  intereft  or 
'•'  paffion  can  exert  their  power.  We  are 
"  blinded  in  examining  our  own  labours  by 
"  innumerable  prejudices.  Our  juvenile 
"  compofitions  pleafe  us,  becaufe  they  bring 
"  to  our  minds  the  remembrance  of  youth ; 
"  our  later  performances  we  are  ready  to 
"  efteem,  becaufe  we  are  unwilling  to  think 
"  we  have  made  no  improvement ;  what  flows 
"  eafily  from  the  pen  charms  us,  becaufe 
VOL.  j.  -c  "we 


34  LIFE  OF 

"  we  read  with  pleafure  that  which  flatters 
"  our  opinion  of  our  own  powers ;  what 
"  was  compofed  with  great  ftruggles  of  the 
"  mind  we  do  not  eafily  reject,  becaufe  we 
"  cannot  bear  that  fo  much  labour  mould 
"  be  fruitlefs.  But,  the  reader  has  none  of 
<;  thefe  prepoffeffions,  and  wonders  that  the. 
"  author  is  fo  unlike  himfelf,  without  con- 
"  fidering  that  the  fame  JoiL  will,  with 
"  different  culture,  afford  different  pro- 
"dutts*" 

To  demonstrate  the  truth  of  thefe  obfer- 
vations,  many  examples  might  be  adduced  ; 
but  I  know  of  none  more  finking  than 
that  which  is  afforded  in  the  writings  of 
Mr.  Boyd,  now  prefented  to  the  publick. 
Every  one  who  compares  the  letters  of  the 
Whig,  or  Freeholder,  with  the  effays  in  the 
Indian  Obferver,  mud  not  only  be  fatisfied 
that  the  fame  man, -on  different  fubje&s,  and 
in  a  different  fituation,  has  written  in  ftyles 
totally  difTimilar,  but  alfo  that  the  author  of 
thefe  produclions  poffeffed  very  uncommon 
abilities,  as  well  as  great  powers  of  lan- 
guage and  compofition.  Thus  the  only 

*  See  the  Rambler,  No.  21. 

argument 


HUGH    BOYD.  35 

r  ^iment  of  thofe,  who  have  afTerted  that 
Mr.  Boyd  was  not  Junius,  entirely  falls  to 
the  ground  ;  and  they  muft  now  take  up  a 
pofition  which  they  will  find  ftill  lefs  tena- 
ble, and  contend  that  the  letters  of  the 
Freeholder  and  Whig,  are  fo  unlike  thofe  of 
Junius,  that  they  cannot  be  the  productions 
of  the  fame  mind. 

I  believe  every  man  of  fenfe  and  obferva- 
tion  who  has  read  the  letters  of  Junius  with 
critical  attention,  and  who  will  carefully 
compare  them  with  the  Freeholder,  will  at 
once  admit,  that  in  both,  the  principles  and 
opinions,  the  mode  of  reafoning,  the  ftyle, 
and  the  fpirit,  are,  with  a  few  trifling  excep- 
tions, fo  exactly  alike,  that  they  muft  either 
have  been  written  by  the  fame  author,  or 
that  the  Freeholder  is  the  beft  imitation  of 
Junius  that  has  yet  appeared.  I  (hall,  how- 
ever, endeavour  to  mew,  that  the  fimilarity 
between  Mr.  Boyd's  political  writings,  pub- 
lifhed  in  this  volume,  and  the  letters  of  Ju- 
nius,  did  not  proceed  from  a  vain  defire  tq 
imitate,  but  from  a  natural  partiality  to  that 
caft  of  thought  and  ftrufture  of  language, 
which  he  had  chofen  for  the  difcuffion  of 
c  2  political 


36  UFE    OF 

political  fubjefts,  of  which  he  had  fuccefs- 
fully  tried  the  effe6l  on  the  publick  mind, 
and  to  which,  therefore,  he  was  induced  to 
adhere.  At  the  fame  time  I  do  not  fay  it 
was  an  abfolute  habit  of  the  mind  which  he 
was  unable  to  difguife ;  for  when  it  fuited 
his  fubjeft  and  purpofe,  he  could  not  only 
difguife  his  general  ftyle,  butalfo  reach  per- 
feclion  in  the  particular  one  he  adopted. 
Of  this  we  have  an  eminent  and  ftriking 
inftance  in  the  Preface*  to  his  Abftrads 
from  Lord  Chatham  5  Speeches,  wherein  he 
has  defcribed  the  eloquence  of  that  great 
man  with  a  claffical  force,  animation,  and 
fublimity,  which  partake  of  the  exalted 
theme,  and  which,  perhaps,  have  not  been 
often  furpafled.  Yet  is  ^the  ftyle  of  this 
compofition  altogether  fo  different  from 
that  of  the  Freeholder,  or  Junius,  that  the 
moft  difcerning  'critic,  will,  I  believe,  be 
unable  to  difcover  any  refemblance  between 
them.  But  to  enable  the  reader  the  more 
readily  to  form  a  judgment  on  this  point,  I 
beg  leave  to  contrafl  the  following  paffages 
from  the  Freeholder  and  the  Preface. 

*  Sec  page  247,  of  this  volume. 

FREE- 


HUGH   BOYD. 


37 


FREEHOLDER. 

{<  We  are  no  longer  funk 
in  the  dead  repofe  of  defpo- 
tifm  and  long  parliaments. 
— Thofe  ftagnations  oi  cor- 
ruption and  filth,  fhall  no 
morepoifon  the  land.  "  dl- 
banautnjlellarefulfit."  The 
returning  day-ftar  of  the 
conftitution  again  illumi- 
nates the  political  hemi- 
fpherc ;  and,  in  fulnefs  of 
fplendour,  difplays  the  glo- 
rious moment  which  reftores 
to  us  our  original  rights. 
The  power  which  we  dele- 
gated, and  the  truft  which 
we  conferred,  revert  to  us. 
The  conftitution  regene- 
rates. And  the  new  birth 
infpires  new  vigour.  As  the 
giant'  received  renovation 
of  ftrength  from  touching 
his  mother  earth,  fo  the 
rights  of  the  people  acquire 
new  fpring  and  force,  when 
brought  back  to  their  origi- 
nal and  parent  fource,  the 
people's  voice." 

******  "  Such,  my  friends, 
are  the  invaluable  bleflings 
now  within  our  grafp.  Such 
are  the  tranfcendant  rewards 
now  prefented  to  us  by  the 
opportunity  of  an  election. 
Power  now  returns  to  its 
genuine  centre,  the  will  of 
the  people.-  It  is  theirs, 
and  only  theirs,  again  to 
put  it  in  action,  and  to  pre- 
fcribe  its  operations.  The 
vital  blood  ebbs  back  to 
the  heart  of  the  conftitu- 
tion. 


PREFACE,  &c. 

"  But  the  candourand  im- 
agination of  the  reader  muft 
fupply  another  deficiency  in 
our  reprefentation  of  Lord 
CHATHAM'S  oratory,  more 
affecting  our  purpofe  of  ex- 
hibiting its  true  likenefs, 
than  the  partial  imperfec- 
tion we  have  mentioned. 
Thofe  who  have  been  wit- 
neffes  to  the  wonders  of  his 
eloquence  —  who  have  lif- 
tened  to  the  mufick  of  his 
voice,  or  trembled  at  its 
majeftr — who  have  feen  the 
perfuafi  ve graceful nefs of  his 
action,  or  have  felt  its  force; 
— thofe  who  have  caught  the 
flame  of  eloquence  from  his 
eye — who  have  rejoiced  in 
the  glories  of  his  counte- 
nance, or  fhrunk  from  his 
frowns, — will  remember  the 
refill lefs  power  with  which 
he  jmpre{fed  conviction.  In 
thefe  flcetches  of  his  original 
genius,  they  will  read  what 
thev  have  heretofore  heard ; 
ana  their  memory  will  give 
due  action  to  the  picture,  by 
refiguring  to  their  minds, 
what  they  have  with  admi- 
ration feen.  But  to  thofe 
who  never  heard  nor  faw 
this  accompliihed  ontor, 
the  utrnoft  effort  of  imagi- 
nation will  be  neceflary  to 
form  a  juft  idea  of  that  coin- 
binationot  excel  lence,whieh 
gave  perfeclton  to  his  elo- 
quence: — his  elevated afpcct 
commanding  the  awe  and 


LIFE   OF 


FREEHOLDER. 

tion*.  Let  us  imitate  the  wif- 
dom  of  nature,  and  we  (hall 
attain  its  fuccefsful  effecls. 
Let  us  give  the  vital  ftreams 
again  to  flow>  through  their 
conftitutional  channels.  So 
fhall  the  health  or"  the  whole 
body  be  reftored,  and  its 
ftrength  eftablifhed.  Every 
part  of  it  (hall  revive  and 
flourish  ;  and  the  ghaflly 
countenance  of  poverty  and 
fervitude  (hall  brighten  in- 
to the  fmile  of  happinefs, 
and  the  triumph  of  liber- 
ty."— 


*  This  appears  to  have  been  a  fa- 
vourite figure  of  Mr.  Boyd*s.  In 
the  Indian  Obferver  he  applies  it  no 
kfs  happily  than  in  the  prefent  in- 
ftance.  In  talking  of  the  circula- 
tion of  commerce,  he  fays,  "  The 
"  rich  ftreams  that  have  flowed 
"  through  the  arteries  of  protected 
"  trade,  return  through  the  grateful 
"  veins,  to  fupport  the  fource  from 
"  whence  theyiifued."  And  it  is 
peculiarly  delerving  of  obfervation, 
that  this  metaphor  is  ufed  by  no  other 
author except^«/i«,who  inexhortit  g 
the  kingdom  at  large  to  Tollow  the 
ex-)  triple  which  the  city  of  London  had 
given  them,  by  petitioning  the  King 
todiflblve  the  parliament,  obferves, 
"  That  the  noble  fpirit  .of  the  me- 
"  tropolis  is  the  life-blood  of  the 
"  ftate,  collected  at  the  heart ;  from 
"  that  point  it  circulates  with  health 
"  and  vigour  through  every  artery 
"*  of  the  conftitution." 


PREFACE,  &c-. 

mute  attention  of  all  who 
beheld  him :  wh;!  it  a  certain 
grace  in  his  manner,  con- 
fcious  of  all  the  dignities 
of  his  fituation,  of  the  fo- 
lernn  fcene  he  afted  in,  as 
well  as  his  own  exalted  cha- 
rafter,  feemed  to  acknow- 
ledge and  repay  the  refpec"l 
he  received: — his  venerable 
form  bowed  with  infirmity 
and  age  ;  but  animated  by  a 
mind  which  nothing  could 
fubdue  : — his  fpirit  filming 
through  him,  arming  his  eye 
with  lightning,  and  cloth- 
ing his  lips  with  thunder  ; 
— or  if  milder  topicks  offer- 
ed, harmonizing  his  counte- 
nance in  fmiles,  and  his 
voice  in  foftnefs ;  for  the 
compafs  of  his  powers  was 
infinite.  As  no  idea  was 
too  vaft,  no  imagination  too 
fublime,  tor  the  grandeur 
and  majefly  of  his  manner  ; 
fo  no  fancy  was  too  playful, 
nor  any  allufion  too  comic, 
for  the  eafe  and  gaiety  with 
which  he  could  accommo- 
date to  the  occafion.  But 
the  character  of  his  oratory 
was  dignity:  this  prefided 
throughout  ;  giving  force, 
becaufe  fecuring  refpeft, 
even  to  his  fallies  of  plea- 
fantry.  .This  elevated  the 
mod  familiar  language,  and 
gave  novelty  and  grace  to 
the  moft  familiar  aUufions; 
fo  that,  in  his  hand,  even  the 
crutch  became  a  weapon  of 
oratory. — Ttlwn  Oratoris." 
Thus 


HUGH  BO  YD. %  39 

Thus  we  perceive,  that  Mr.  Boyd  could 
rife  into  eloquence  and  dignity  in  two  very 
different  ftyles,  and  that  he  could  infufe  into 
each  that  generous  ardour  which  its  fubjecl  in- 
fpired.  In  the  Freeholder  is  to  be  obferved  the 
fameftru&ure  of  the  fentences,  the  fame  tran- 
fitions,  the  fame  fertility  and  happinefs  of  allu- 
fion,  the  fame  chafte  application  of  meta- 
phors, and  the  fame  method  of  introducing 
them ;  the  fame  concife  vigour,  the  fame  bril- 
liant animation,  and  above  all,  the  fame  terfe 
phrafeology  which  are  the  chara&eriftick 
features  of  Junius's  ftyle.  On  the  other 
hand,  we  admire  in  the  Preface,  the  eafe  and 
amplification  of  the  periods,  the  fpirit  with 
which  they  are  kept  up,  the  rapid  flow  of 
the  fentiments,  the  copious  energy  of  the 
language,  the  boldnefs,  yet  corre6lnefs  of 
the  figures,  the  critical  accuracy  of  the  dif- 
crimination,  and  finally,  the  claffical  beauty 
and  elegance  of  the  defcription.  In  both 
are  difplayed  very  confiderable  genius,  ex- 
quifite  tafte,  and  great  facility  of  compofi- 
tion — and  it  will  be  found  on  a  perufal  of 
his  political  writings,  that  thefe  qualities  pre- 
dominate throughout  the  whole  of  them. 

.But 


4O  LIFE   OF 

But  in  order  to  mew  in  the  ftrongeft  point 
of  view,  the  affinity  between  the  reafoning  and 
compofnion  of  thofe  writings  and  the  letters 
of  JuniuSy  I  (hall  cite  a  few  pafTages  from 
both,  and  point  out  the  model  on  which 
their  general  ftyle  was  undoubtedly  formed. 
It  is,  however,  necefiary  to  premife  One  or 
two  fafts,  concerning  the  time  and  care 
which  were  beflowed  on  the  productions  of 
Junius,  and  the  hurry  or  negligence  with 
which  the  other  papers  were  written.  Be- 
fides,  the  internal  evidence  which  the  letters 
of  Junius  themfelves  afford  of  their  being 
compofed  with  great  labour  and  attention, 
we  have  his  own  declaration  to  that  effecl, 
expreffed  in  pretty  plain  terms.  In  his  fe- 
cond  letter  in  reply  to  Mr.  HORNE,  he  afks, 
"  Is  there  no  merit  in  dedicating  my  life  to 
"  the  information  of  my  fellow-fubjects  ?" 
"  Is  there  no  labour  in  the  compo- 
"Jtiion  of  thefe  letters  ?  Mr.  Home,  I  fear, 
"  is  partial  to  me,  and  meafures  the  facility 
"  of  my  writings,  by  the  fluency  of  his  own/' 
Now  it  is  a  pofitive  facl,  that  the  papers  of 
the  Freeholder)  on  the  contrary,  were  writ- 
ten 


HUGH   BO  YD.  4! 

ten  in  the  mod  hurried  manner,  on  the  very 
fpur  of  the  occafion  they  were  defigned  to 
ferve,  and  in  the  midft  of  all  the  confufion, 
diflipation,  and  riot,  incident  to  an  Irifli 
election ;  and  it  is  alfo  a  fa6l  equally  well 
authenticated,  that  the  letters  of  Democrati- 
cus,  and  of  the  Whig,  were  compofed  without 
the  fmalleft  preparation,  ftudy,  or  attention: 
for  after  the  month  of  January  1772,  he 
never  wrote  for  the  publick  with  any 
care,  nor  even  with  his  accu domed  fe- 
crecy.  The  articles  which  he  fent  from 
time  to  time  to  Mr.  Woodfall  and  Mr. 
Almon,  were  written  merely  to  gratify  his 
ruling  pafllon  for  politicks,  and  not  with  a 
view  to  arreft  the  publick  attention  :  they 
cod  him  little  time,  and  lefs  labour.  Thefe 
writings  are,  therefore,  by  confequence,  lefs 
polifhed  than  the  letters  of  Junius,  and  in 
thefe  he  has  almoft  wholly  abftained  from  that 
pungency  of  farcafm  and  bitternefs  of  per- 
fonal  fatire,  which,  together  with  the  replies 
that  they  provoked,  were  unqueftionably  the 
true  caufes  of  the  unexampled  popularity  of 
thofe  letters.  But  the  fame  political  princi- 
ples, 


42  LITE   OF 

pies,  the  fame  bold  fentiments  of  liberty, 
and  precifely  the  fame  opinions  of  publick 
meafures  and  publick  men,  to  which  Junius 
invariably  adhered,  will  be  found  uniformly 
avowed,  and  ftrenuoufly  maintained  in  the 
Freeholder,  Democraticus,  and  the  Whig. 
And  here  I  muft  remind  the  reader,  that 
confiflency  of  opinion  was  Junius's  greatefl 
boaft.  In  his  reply  to  Mr.  Home  already 
quoted,  he  fays, — "  But  he  (Mr.  Home) 
"  affer.ts  that  he  has  traced  me  through  a 
"  variety  of  fignatures.  To  make  the  dif- 
".  covery  of  any  importance  to  his  purpofe, 
^  he  mould  have  proved,  either  that  the 
"  fictitious  character  of  Junius  has  not  been 
"  confidently  fupported,  or,  that  the  author 
"has  maintained  different  principles  under 
"  different  fignatures.  I  cannot  recal  to  my 
"  memory  the  numberlefs  trifles  I  have  writ- 
"  ten;  but  I  rely  on  the  confcioufnefs  of 
"  my  own  integrity,  and  defy  him  to  fix  any 
"  colourable  charge  of  incon/iftency  upon 
«  me." 

That  this  uniformity  of  principles  is  fled-' 
faftly  preferved  in  the  political  letters  now 

publifhed, 


HUGH    BOYD.  43 

publiihed,  will  be  bed  proved  by  a  compa- 
rifon  of  the  following  pafTages. 

FREEHOLDER.  JUNIUS. 
Let  me  in  the  firft  place  ThepowerofKing,Lords, 
conjure  you  never  to  lofe  and  Commons,  is  not  an  ar- 
fight  of  the  great  fundamen-  bitrary  power.  They  arc 
tal  principle,  that  You  are  the  truftees,  not  the  owners 
the  origin  of  pawir.  Govern-  ot  the  eft  ate.  The  fee-fimpit 
ment  was  conftituted  by  and  is  in  us.  They  cannot  all- 
far  the  people.  This  is  the  enate,  they  cannot  wajle. 
voice  of  reafon  and  the  right  When  we  (ay  that  the  legif- 
of  humanity:  and  applies  in  lature  is  fupreme,  we  mean 
theory  to  all  the  nations  of  that  it  is  the  higheft  power 
the  world.  But  it  is  our  pe-  known  to  the  Confutation  ; 
culiar  felicity  to  realize  the  that  it  is  the  higheft  in 
fpeculation,  and  to  feel  its  comparison  with  the  other 
atiual  bleflings. —  We  are  fuborclinate powers eftablifh- 
de facia,  as  well  as  de  jure,  ed  by  the  laws, 
free. 

So  far  we  find  the  fundamental  principles 
of  civil  government  laid  down  byJtiniuS  and 
the  Free /wider,  are  exactly  the  fame  :  and  in 
another  place  the  Freeholder  further  fays, — 
"  Remember,  my  friends,  that  in  the  mo- 
"  ment  of  election,  you  ftand  forth  the  im- 
"  mediate  guardians  of  your  country." — *** 
"  To  her  you  owe  an  original,  unalitnable, 
"  eternal  duty.  You  are,  therefore,  abfo- 
"  lutely,  and  unconditionally,  free.  Except 
"  in  the  fenfe,  in  which  Omnipotence  itfelf 
"  is  limited ;  by  wifdom  and  virtue" 

With 


LIFE   OF 


With  regard  to  the  difpute  between 
Great  Britain  and  the  American  Colonies, 
jfunius  and  the  Freeholder  exprefs  themfelves 
in  the  following  terms. 


FREEHOLDER. 

****  I  maintain  the  in- 
nocence of  America  as  to 
independent  views ;  which 
if  fhe  now  entertains,  we 
can  only  blame  our  own  in- 
fatuation that  has  compelled 
her.  The  point  of  view  I 
\vifh  to  take,  is  the  ftate  of 
America  previous  to  the  re- 
peal of  the  ftamp-aft.  She 
was  then,  according  to  the 
language  of  parliamentary 
journals,  "  in  outrageous  re- 
bellion.'' Xo  reftore  the 
happinefs  and  connexion  of 
both  countries,  a  repeal  of 
that  aft  was  propofed.**** 
It  was  reftored  ;  and  would 
have  been  eftablifhed,  but 
for  our  fatal  relapfe  into  our 
former  foily.  About  two 
years  afterwards,  the  at- 
tempt at  internal  taxation 
was  revived  ;  and  what  was 
perhaps  ftill  more  vexatious, 
was  continued,  at  a  memo- 
rable period  which  foon  fol- 
lowed, though  Lord  Hilfbo- 
rough  had,  in  the  name  of  all 
the  minifters,  exprefsly  dif- 
claimed  it,  in  his  publick 
letter  to  the  Colonies.  The 
violence  and  folly  which 
have  ever  fince  difgraced 
our 


JUNIUS. 

A  feries  of  inconfiftent 
meafures  has  alienated  the 
Colonies  from  their  duty  as 
fubje£ts,  and  from  their  na- 
tural affection  to  their  com- 
mon country.**** — Under 
one  admimftration  the 
itamp-acl  is  made ;  under 
the  fecond  it  is  repealed ; 
under  the  third,  infpiteof 
all  experience,  a  new  mode 
of  taxing  the  colonies  is  in- 
dented, and  a  queftion  re- 
vived which  ought  to  have 
been  buried  in  oblivion.  In 
thele  circumftanccs  a  new 
office  is  eftablifhed  for  the 
bufinefs  of  the  plantations, 
and  the  Earl  of  Hilfborough 
is  called  forth  at  a  moft  cri- 
tical feafon  to  govern  Ame- 
rica.**** Since  that  period 
they  (meaning  the  Colonies) 
have  been  driven  into  ex- 
cefles  little  mort  of  rebel- 
lion. Petitions  have  been 
hindered  from  reaching  the 
throne ;  and  the  continu- 
ance of  one  of  the  principal 
aflemblies  rcfted  upon  an  ar- 
bitrary condition,  which, 
confidering  the  temper  they 
were  in,  it  was  impoflibfe 
they  fhould  comply  with ; 
and 


HUGH    BOYD. 


45 


FREEHOLDER.  JUNIUS. 

our  councils  and  our  arms,     and     which     would     have 
are  not  to  our  prei'ent  pur-     availed   nothing   as  to   the 
pofe;  which  is  only  to  prove     general  queftion,   if  it  had 
the  peaceful   and   obedient     been  complied  with, 
difpofition  of  America,  from 
which   (he    was  ^driven   by 
the  revival  of  our  oppref- 
fions. 


Thefe  extrafts  fufficiently  (hew,  the  con- 
formity of  opinion  between  Junius  and  the 
Freeholder  to  the  fa&s  they  have  dated. 
Let  us  fee  how  well  their  opinions  and  lan- 
guage tally  upon  a  very  material  point  in  the 
American  queftion. 


FREEHOLDER. 

It  is  particularly  obfer- 
vable  that  the  Colonies  only 
complain  of  the  arbitrary 
prafiice  of  univerfal  taxa- 
tion, and  not  of  the  general 
principle.  For  in  all  their 
applications,  either  to  King 
or  Parliament,  they  never 
require  the  repeal  of  the  De- 
claratory A&,  which  efta- 
blifhes  that  principle:  but 
it  intends  it,  however,  as 
all  principles  ought  to  be 
intended,  to  be  afcted  upon 
with  equity  and  moderation. 
The  lupreme  power  and 
right  of  Great  Britain  is 
there  declared,  in  all  cafes 
whatever.  And  it  may  be 


JUNIUS. 

Junius  confiders  the  right 
of  taxing  the  Colonies  by 
an  aft  of  the  Britifh  Legifla- 
ture,  as  a  fpeculative  right 
merely,  never  to  be  exerted, 
nor  ever  to  be  renounced.  To 
hisjudgmentit  appears  plain, 
that  the  general  reafonings 
which  wereemployedagainft 
that  power,  went  direclly  to 
our  whole  legiflative  right; 
and  that  one  part  of  it  could 
not  be  yielded  to  fuch  argu- 
ments, without  a  virtual  fur- 
render  of  all  the  reft, 


This 


46  LIFE   OF 

FREEHOLDER. 

admitted  to  exiji  in  all  cafes, 
either  external  or  interne  I.  But 
the  Declaratory  Aft  does 
not,  cannot  fay,  that  it  equal- 
ly exifts  at  all  times,  and  for 


This  is  a  point  upon  which  there  was 
much  contrariety  of  opinion  among  the  moft 
ftrenuous  oppofers  of  the  American  war. 
LORD  CHATHAM  confidered  the  Britifh 
legiflature  as  not  fupreme  over  the  colonies 
in  the  fame  fenfe  in  whicli  it  is  fupreme 
over  the  mother-country.  Mr.  BURKE 
and  the  Roc  KING  HAM  party  fupported  the 
entire  fupremacy  of  the  imperial  legiflature 
of  Great  Britain,  as  Rated  in  the  Declaratory 
Acl,  while  they  condemned  the  exercife  of 
that  fupremacy  for  the  purpofe  of  internal 
taxation  ;  and  foine  other  gentlemen  of  great 
talents  poiitively  denied  the  exiflence  of  any 
fpeculative  right  whatever  in  the  Britifh 
parliament  to  levy  taxes  in  the  colonies. 
The  diftinftion,  dated  with  fo  much  preci- 
fion,  by  Junius,  is,  fomewhat  peculiar ;  it 
was  ftrongly  combated  at  the  time ;  and  as 
far  as  I  have  had  an  opportunity  of  examining 

the 


HUGH  BOYD.  47 

the  different  fpeeches  and  writings  on  this  ' 
fubjeft,  I  have  not  found  it  exactly  main- 
tained any  where  elfe  but  in  the  Freeholder. 
The  Freeholder  fpecifically  declares,  that 
the  right  to  tax  the  Colonies  exifis  in  all 
cafes  either  external  or  internal,  but  that  it 
does  not  exift  for  all  purpofes,  and  fhould 
never  be  arbitrarily  exercifed.  This  is,  in 
other  words,  the  very  diftinftion  made  by 
jfunius.  The  fpirit  of  the  two  paflagcs 
above  quoted  is  precifely  the  fame. 

Upon  another  queftion  of  the  utmofl  deli- 
cacy, Junius  delivered  an  opinion  which  was 
then,  and  is  now  extremely  unpopular, 
which  excited  a  great  deal  of  clamour  among 
thofe  who  flyled  themfelves  the  friends  of 
the  People,  but  to  which  the  Freeholder  im- 
plicitly fubfcribes.  "  I  have  a  claim,"  fays 
JuniuSt  "  to  the  candid  interpretation  of 
"  my  country,  when  I  acknowledge  an  in- 
"  voluntary  compuljivt  affent,  to  one  very 
"  unpopular  opinion.  I  lament  the  unhappy 
"  neceflity,  whenever  it  arifes,  of  providing 
€t  for  the  fafety  of  the  ftate,  by  a  temporary  in- 
"  vafionof  the  perfonal  liberty  of  the  fubjecl. 
"  Would  to  God !  it  were  prafticable  to 

"  reconcile 


48  LIFE   OF 

"  reconcile  thefe  important  objects,  in  every 
"  poflible   fituation  of  publick  affairs !      I 
"  regard   the   legal  liberty    of  the  meaneft 
"  man  in  Britain  as  much  as  my  own,  and 
"  would  defend   it  with  the  fame  zeal.     I 
"  know  we  mud  (land  or  fall  together.  But 
"  I  never  can  doubt  that  the  community  has 
"  a  right  to  command,  as  well  as  to  purchafe 
"  the  fervice  of  its  members.    I  fee  that  right 
"  founded  originally  upon  a  neceffity  which 
"  Jiiperfedes  all  argument.     I  fee  it  eftablifh- 
"  ed  by  ufage  immemorial,  and  admitted  by 
"  more  than  a  tacit  affent  of  the  legiflature. 
"  I  conclude  there  is  no  remedy  in  the  na- 
"  ture   of  tilings    for  the  grievance    com- 
"  plained  of;    for,   if  there  were,  it    mufl 
"  long  fmce  have  been  redrefied.     Though 
"  numberlefs   opportunities  have  prefented 
"  themfelves,  highly  favourable  to  publick 
"  liberty,    no  fuccefsful    attempt   has  ever 
"  been  made  for  the  relief  of  the  fubjecl  in 
"  this   article.      Yet  it  has  been  felt    and 
"  complained  of,  ever  fmce  England  had  a 
"  navy.  The  conditions  which  conftitute  this 
"  right,  muft  be  taken  together,    feparately 
"  they  have  little  weight.     It  is  not  fair  to 
"  argue  from   any  abufe  in  the  execution, 

"to 


HUGH   BOYD.  49 

"  to  the  illegality  of  the  power;  much  lefs 
"  is  a  conclufion  to  be  drawn  from  the  navy 
"  tot  he  land  fervice.  The  only  cafe  in 
"  which  the  King  can  have  a  right  to  arm 
"  his  fubjecls  in  general,  is  that  of  a  foreign 
"  force  being  actually  landed  on  our  coatt. 
"  Whenever  that  cafe  happens,  no  true 
"  Englifhman  will  inquire,  whether  the 
"  King's  right  to  compel  him  to  defend  his 
"  country,  be  the  cuftom  of  England,  or  a 
"  part  of  the  legiflature.  With  regard  to 
"  the  prefs  for  feamen,  it  does  not  follow 
"  that  the  fymptoms  may  not  be  foftened, 
"  although  the  diftemper  cannot  be  cured. 
"  Let  bounties  be  increafed  as  far  as  the 
"  publick  purfe  can  fupport  them.  Still 
"  they  have  a  limit ;  and  when  every  rea- 
"  fonable  expence  is  incurred,  it  will  be 
"  found  in  faft,  that  the  fpur  of  the  prefs  is 
"  wanted  to  give  operation  to  the  bounty." 
— I  have  been  induced  to  cite  this  paffage 
at  full  length,  on  account  of  its  intrinfick 
good  fenfe,  and  found  policy.  In  the  Free- 
holder this  opinion  is  upheld  in  fewer  words, 
but  with  as  much  force  and  clearnefs.  Talk- 
ing of  the  rights  of  the  executive  govern- 
VOL.  i.  d  ment, 


5O  LITE  OF 

ment,  it  is  obferved,  "  That  a  right  may 
"  lofe  its  nature,  and  become  the  moft  odious 
"  wrong,  by  unjuft  exertions.  The  King, 
"  for  inftance,  may  have  a  right  to  prefs  his 
"  fubjefts,  or  a  particular  part  of  them,  into 
"  the  fea-fervice.  And  the  moft  conftitu- 
"  tional  lawyers  decide  Jo.  But  even  the 
"  moft  hardened  lawyer  would  blufh  to  af- 
"  fert,  and  the  tamed  flave  would  rife  to 
"  refift,  a  perpetual,  unnecefTary,  and  op- 
"  prem've  abufe  of  it.  *" 

Thus  it  is  manifeft  that  the  Freeholder 
entirely  coincides  with  Jum'us,  in  every  po- 
litical principle,  as  well  as  on  every  politi- 
cal queftion,  which  it  fuited  his  particular 
purpofe  to  mention,  or  difcufs.  His  ob- 
fervations  are,  for  the  moft  part,  confined 
to  the  main  fubjecl  of  his  letters,  the  right 
of  free  election ;  and  on  that  important  to- 
pick,  he  not  only  agrees  with  Junius,  but 
takes  from  him  the  mottos  for  his  two  firft 
papers,  and  with  admirable  finefle  com- 
mences his  firft  one  with  the  follow- 
ing feafonable  panegyrick.  —  "  The  great 
"  writer  whofe  words  I  have  placed  at  the 

*  See  the  Preface  to  the  Freeholder,  p.  18,  of  this  vol. 

"  head 


HUGH    BOYD.  £1 

"  head  of  my  paper,  is  juftly  acknowledged 
"  to  excel  in  fplendour  of  imagery,  and  in 
"  ftrength  of  diclion.  But  his  excellence 
"  extends  to  points  ftill  more  important. 
"  No  writer  has  invefligated  with  fuch  fa- 
"  gacity,  nor  with  fuch  clearnefs  pointed 
"  out  the  true  nature  of  our  admirable 
"  conftitution.  The  wifdom  and  learning 
"of  LOCKE  had  afcertained  fome  great 
"  fundamental  maxims,  which  constituted, 
"  or  at  leaft  contributed  to  form  the  bafis 
"  of  our  liberties.  But  it  remained  for  the 
"  fucceeding  addrefs  and  eloquence  of  Juni- 
"  us,  to  encounter  and  to  fubdue,  at  leaft 
"  in  the  fields  of  argument,  the  more  re- 
(t  fined  corruptions  of  later  times."  It  may, 
at  firfl  fight,  feem  irreconcileable  with  that 
modefty  which  Mr.  Boyd  poffeffed,  to  be- 
ftow  fuch  high  praife  on  his  own  produc- 
tions. But  if  we  inquire  a  little  into  the 
motives  of  human  aftion,  as  well  as  into 
the  peculiar  circumftances  of  the  cafe  before 
us,  we  (hall  be  fatisfied,  that  the  above  en- 
comium is  no  way  inconfiftent  with  any  of 
the  qualities  of  his  mind,  and  was  in  itfelf 
at  once  judicious  and  neceflary. 

4  2  Modefty 


52  LIFE    OF 

Modefty  has  been  beautifully  called,  "  the 
"  grace  of  all  the  other  virtues,"  and  undoubt- 
edly in  proper  time  and  place  it  is  both  be- 
coming and  falutary.  When  it  arifes  from 
a  native  meeknefs  of  difpofition,  it  gives  a 
pleafing  hue  to  the  bloom  of  genius,  as  well 
as  an  infinuating  foftnefs  to  the  countenance 
of  virtue.  This  true  modefty  is  perfeclly 
compatible  with  that  ingenuous  pride  which 
proceeds  from  a  confcioufnefs  of  our  own 
talents  and  integrity,  and  which  difdains 
the  ridiculous  affectation  of  forbearing  to 
fpeak  of  ourfelves,  as  we  think  and  feel  we 
deferve,  more  efpecially  when  we  conceive 
the  doing  fo  will  be  productive  of  a  publick 
benefit.  But  mankind  are  fo  much  accuf- 
tomed  to  that  falfe  modefty  which  is  made 
up  of  unmanly  diffidence,  vanity,  and  hy- 
pocrify,  that  we  are  extremely  apt  to  attri- 
bute to  arrogance,  that  which  flows  from 
the  moft  generous  motives ;  and  to  re- 
proach a  man  for  felf-fuffieiency,  becaufc 
he  has  had  the  frank nefs  to  avow  his  opinion 
of  his  own  merits.  In  truth,  there  is  often 
much  more  vanity  in  concealing,  than  in 
openly  aflerting  our  own  claims  to  publick 

applaufe : 


HUGH    BOYD.  53 

applaufe:  for  as  men,  who  are  poflefled 
of  fhining  abilities,  feldom  under-rate  them 
in  their  own  eftimation,  and  as  well-earned 
praife  is  generally  grateful  to  the  mind, 
there  is  furely  lefs  oftentation  in  a  candid 
and  dignified  acknowledgment  of  the  opi- 
nion we  entertain  of  our  own  endowments, 
than  in  the  {trained  prudery  too  commonly 
praftifed,  of  talking  humbly  of  them,  and 
of  affefting  not  to  deferve  thofe  praifes,  for 
which,  at  the  fame  moment,  our  hearts  are 
fecretly  panting.  The  man  who  is  prompt- 
ed to  great  undertakings  by  a  generous 
ambition,  and  who  is  guided  in  his  purfuits 
by  a  love  of  glory  and  truth,  ought  not  to 
confider  it  in  any  degree  inconfiftent  with 
real  humility,  to  tell  the  world  what  he 
thinks  of  himfelf.  So  thought  and  fo  acl- 
ed*  the  illuftrious  HUME,  whofe  amiable 
and  unaffuming  manners  were  as  much 
efteemed  in  private  life,  as  his  great  talents 
have  been  admired  by  all  mankind.  And 
it  was  upon  thefe  principles  that  Mr.  Boyd 
acted,  when  he  made  Junius  praife  his  own 

*  See  HUME'S  Life  of  himfelf,  prefixed  to  the  ift  vol. 
of  his  Hiftory. 

productions 


54  LIFE    OF 

productions  in  the  following  terms.  "  When 
"  kings  and  minifters  are  forgotten,  when 
"  the  force  and  direction  of  perfonal  fatire 
"  are  no  longer  underflood.,  and  when  mea- 
"  fures  are  only  felt  in  their  remoteft  confe- 
"  quences,  this  book  will,  I  believe,  be  found 
"  to  contain  principles  worthy  to  be  tranf- 
"  mitted  to  poflerity."  *******  This  is 
"  not  the  language  of  vanity.  If  I  am  a 
"  vain  man,  my  gratification  lies  within  a 
"  very  narrow  circle.  /  am  the  fole  depoji- 
"  tory  of  my  own  fecret,  and  it  Jhall  peri/h 
tl  with  me" — In  another  place  he  fays  — 
«  *  *  without  meaning  an  indecent  compa- 
"  rifon,  I  may  venture  to  foretel,  that  the 
"  BIBLE  and  Juntas  will  be  read,  when 
"  the  commentaries  of  the  Jefuits  are  for- 
"  gotten." 

But  the  eulogium  on  Jjinius  in  the  Free- 
holder, may  be  defended  on  other  grounds. 
He  was  well  perfuaded  of  the  efficacy  of 
commencing  thofe  letters,  which  were  ad- 
drefled  to  the  freeholders  of  the  county  of 
Antrim,  by  openly  profeffing  the  fame  prirK 
ciples  and  opinions  with  the  moft  popular 
political  writer  of  the  age :  and  at  the  fame 

time 


HUGH   BOYD.  55 

time  he  no  doubt  conceived  that  his  high 
praife  of  Junius  would  do  away  the  fuf- 
picion,  to  which  the  fimiiitude  of  his  ftyle 
and  fentiments,  to  thofe  of  the  letters  under 
that  fignature  might  very  poflibly  give  rife. 
The  aftoniming  impreflion  which  his  letters 
made  on  the  minds  of  the  people  of  Antrim, 
fully  evinced  both  the  utility  and  prudence 
of  the  plan  he  adopted.  They  were  uni- 
verfally  admired  ;  and  the  Freeholder  was 
called  ajecond  Junius,  by  the  moft  compe- 
tent judges.  Very  diligent  inquiries  were 
made  to  find  out  the  author  ;  but  as  he 
was  in  this  inftance  a^fo  the  "fo/e  depofitory 
"  of  his  ownfecret"  he  was  not  difcovered 
till  many  years  afterwards,  when  a  fheet  of 
the  manufcript  which  the  printer  had  neg- 
lefted  to  deftroy  was  accidentally  found,  and 
in  which  fome  of  Mr.  Boyd's  friends  de- 
tecled  the  hand- writing,  although  it  was  very 
much  difguifed.  He  then  acknowledged  to 
Mrs.  Boyd,  that  he  had  written  the  Free- 
holder. 

With  regard  to  publick  characters,  he 
has  principally  confined  himfelf  in  the  Free* 
holder,  to  the  three  gentlemen  who  flood 

candidates 


56  LIFE    OF 

candidates  for  the  county  of  Antrim,  at  the 
general  election  in  1776;  but  his  mode  of 
examining  the  claims  of  each  of  thefe  can- 
didates, fo  much  refembles  the  general  man- 
ner of  Junius,  as  well  as  the  caft  of  his  lan- 
guage, that  I  irmft  point  out  two  or  three 
paffages  to  the  particular  notice  of  the 
reader.  He  begins  by  quoting  from  BLACK- 
STONE,  "that  no  lord  of  parliament  hath 
tf  any  right  to  interfere  in  the  elttlion  of  com- 
"  moners"—"  This,"  fays  he,  "  is  the  law 
"  of  the  land.  Remember  it,  my  coun- 
"  trymeti !  revere  it :  maintain  it.  It  is  the 
"  grand  barrier  of  the  conftitution.  While 
"  it  (lands  firm,  you  remain  fafely  and  in- 
"  vincibly  intrenched  in  your  own  privi- 
"  leges.  But  if  ever  you  furrender  it  to 
"  the  enemy,  ,you  are  irretrievably  ruined. 
"  The  democratick  eftate  will  be  annihi- 
"  lated  out  of  the  conftitution  :  and  you  will 
"  be  melted  down  into  a  vile  vaffalage  ;  the 
"  devoted  prey  and  plunder  of  your  defpo- 
"  tick  conquerors."  The  three  candidates 
were  the  Hon.  Henry  Seymour  Conway, 
the  Hon.  Hugh  Skeffington,  and  James 
Wilfon,  efq.  Of  the  firft  he  obferves,  "  that 

"he 


HUGH    BOYD.  57 

"  he  refides  in  England ;  fixed  there  by  con- 
"  nexion,  by  inclination,  and  by  duty.  His 
"  father  is  an  Englifh  Earl,  Lord  Chamber- 
"  lain  to  his  Majefty's  houfehold,  and  unalie- 
"  nably  attached  to  the  court.  PofTefTed  of 
"  an  ample  fortune  in  Ireland,  he  remem- 
"  bers  that  country  only  in  the  large  remit- 
"  tances  which  he  draws  from  her  exhaufled 
"  bofom  :  unlefs  indeed  his  attention  be  reviv- 
"  ed  at  the  polite  period  of  o&ennial  conde- 
"  fcenfiont."  ******  Befides  he  is  indif- 
(l  penfibly  fattened  to  England,  by  his  feat 
"  in  the  Britifh  Houfe  of  Commons.  *  *  *  * 
"  How  then  can  he  reprefent  our  county  in 
"  an  Irifh  parliament.  He  is  not  only,  not 
"  an  inhabitant  of  this  place,  and  therefore  an 
"  unconftitutional  candidate,  but  he  is  an  ac- 
"  tual  abfenteefrom  this  kingdom,  and  there^ 
"  fore  an  impoffible,  reprefentative.  The  ob- 
"  jeftion  is  infuperable.  It  is  not  an  intricate 
"  deduction  of  argument,  to  which  perhaps 
"  fpecious  fophiftry  might  be  oppofed.  It 

t  The  length  of  this  paffage  prevents  me  from  quoting 
the  whole  of  it :  But  the  reader  is  referred  to  pages  44, 
45,  and  46,  of  this  volume. 

"  is 


58  LIFE   OF 

"  is  an  unanfwerable    point  of   fa6t.      He 
"  cannot  reprefent  you." 

Of  Mr.  Skeffington  he  fays,  "  It  is  ob- 
"  vious  that  I  ftudy  to  fpeak  gently  of 
"  this  gentleman.  Content  with  a  negative 
ts  argument  againft  his  fufficiency,  I  do  not 
"  alledge  pofitive  charges  of  betraying  trufl. 
"  I  do  not  refer  to  venal  majorities,  blank 
"  lifts,  and  the  obedient  aye,  or  no, — the  ut- 
"  moft  eloquence  and  fervice  of  fome  repre- 
"  fentatives  :  I  fpeak  not  of  uniform  devo- 
"  tion  to  the  court,  and  to  courtly  connexions: 
"  I  only  fubmit  to  my  countrymen,  that  in- 
"  dependent  of  fuch  pojitive  guilt,  their  duty 
"  as  freeholders  obliges  them  to  reject  a  can- 
"  didate,  who  is  obvioufly,  and  totally  defti- 
"  tute  of  all  requifite  qualifications. 

tf  Permit  me,  in  fome  meafure  to  atone  to 
«  my  own  feelings,  for  the  difagreeable  ne- 
"  ceflity  of  thefe  publick  truths,  by  a  juft 
"  tribute  to  the  private  character  of  this 
"  gentleman.  As  far  as  my  knowledge  of  it 
"  reaches,  I  gladly  bear  teftimony  to  its  be- 
"  ing  amiable,  good-humoured,  and  friend- 
"  ly.  Nay,  there  is  a  fpecies  of  delicacy  in 

"it, 


HUGHBOYD.  $Q 

"  it,  which  reflects  fome  honour  on  him  as 
"a  man;  accompanied,  alas!  with  an  in- 
"  firmity  of  mind  which  difgraces  him  as  a 
"  fenator.  For  I  have  good  authority  to 
"  fay,  that  he  laments  the  fervitude  of  his 
"  fituation.  We  all  know  too  well  that  he 
"  cannot  (hake  it  off.  He  has  fenfibility  to 
"  feel  the  chain ;  without  the  fpirit,  the  en- 
"  terprize  of  mind,  that  mould  caft  it  away, 
"  and  dare  to  be  free." 

"  Reflecl  now,  my  countrymen  ! — No- 
"  thing  can  be  wanting  to  your  free  exer- 
"  tion  of  your  privileges,  and  vindication  of 
"  your  rights,  on  this  great  occafion ;  if 
"  you  give  it  deep  and  due  attention.  You 
"  will  then  be  convinced  that  your  grandeft 
"  happinefs,  the  truefummum  bonum,  which 
"  the  ancients  puzzled  for  in  vain,  your  li- 
"  berty,  is  at  ftake.  Founded  as  it  is,  in 
*  every  virtue,  you  will  confefs  it  paramount 
"  to  every  blemng.  To  point  out  the  path 
"  that  leads  to  this  glorious  object,  (hall  be 
"  the  more  pleafing  bufmefs  of  my  fucceed- 
"  ing  letters.  Long  enough  have  our  eyes 
"  ached  over  this  barren  profpeft :  where  no 
"  verdure  of  virtue  quickens— no  publick  fer- 

"  vice 


60  LIFE    OF 

"  vice  is  feen  to  bloflbm  *.  We  will  with 
"  pleafure  turn  our  view  and  our  choice 
"  to  a  more  fertile  foil,  pregnant  with  the 
"  richeft  feeds  ;  which  wait  only  for  the  cul- 
'*  tivation  of  our  favour  to  ripen  into  the 
"  happieft  harveft."  . 

After  recommending  Mr.  Wilfon  to  the 
freeholders  of  Antrim,  as  the  only  conftitu- 
tional  candidate  of  the  three  gentlemen  who 
have  been  named,  he  proceeds  to  obferve, 
"  *  *  that  in  Mr.Wilfon's  addrefs,  two  points 
"  ftand  remarkably  confpicuous ;  the  inde- 
"  pendent  teft,  which  he  propofes  to  take 
*'  on  the  day  of  election  ;  and  the  plan  which 
"  he  fuggefls,  to  collecl;  the  fenfe  of  his  con- 
"  ftituents,  for  the  regulation  of  his  parlia- 
"  mentary  conduct.  Thefe  are  eminent 
"  features,  and  demand  the  niceft  attention 
"  of  the  political  phyfiognomift,  who  wifhes 

*  This  is  precifely  the  fame  figure,  with  which  Junius 
begins  his  letter  to  Lord  CAMDEN. 
"  My  Lord, 

"  I  turn  with  pleafure  from  that  barren  wafte^  in 
14  which  no  falutary  plant  takes  root — no  verdure  qulck- 
"  ens,  to  a  character,  fertile,  as  I  willingly  believe,  in 
"  every  great  and  good  qualificatioa." 

See  Junius's  Letter  to  Lord  Camden. 
"  tO 


HUGH    BOYD.  6l 

*•  to  trace  the  true  lines  of  liberty,  and  to 
"  afcertain  the  genuine  fon  of  the  conftitu- 
«  tion." 

"  Parliamentary  tefts  were  always  proper. 

"  Even  in  the  purer  days  of  ancient  liberty, 

"  it  was  not  unwife  to  enforce,  by  additional 

"  obligations,  the  faithfulnefs  of  the  fervant. 

"  It  would  never  be  thought  unreafonable, 

"  or  ungenerous,  to  require  from  the  agent, 

"  at  lealt  a  promife  that  he  would  acl:  faith- 

"  fully  for  his  employer.     But  what  was 

"  right  and  reafonable,  in  the  moft  virtuous 

"  days,  modern  degeneracy  has  made  abfo- 

"  lutely    necefTary.     For,    it    is    notorious, 

"  that  not  only  the  fubftance  of  patriotifm 

"  is  melting  avay,  but  its  very  name  and 

"  memory  are  falling  into  obloquy  and  con- 

"  tempt.     This  noble  quality,  the  fublimeft 

"  of  moral  virtues,  as  it  approaches  to  the 

"  facred  nature  of  religion  herfelf,  fo  muft 

"  it  expe6l  to  fliare  her  abufe,  and  fuffer  her 

"  misfortune.     Hypocrites  are  daily  deteft- 

"  ed,   who  do  not  blufh  to  proftitute  the 

"  facred  character  of  both.     Mifcreants  are 

"  daily  heard,    who  deny  the   exiftence  of 

"  either  ;  and  who  do  not  tremble  to  vilify 

"and 


62  LIF£  O? 

"  and  betray  their  God  and  their  country Iri 

"  this  fhamelefs  flate  of  publick  profligacy,  it 
"  is  necefTary  to  adopt  every  caution,  to  im- 
"  pofe  every  fanftion,  to  infill  on  every  fe- 
"  curity,  for  the  fidelity  of  their  reprefenta- 
"  tive.  The  honed  candidate  for  any  truft, 
"  never  objecls,  will  rather  anxioufly  defire, 
"  to  undertake  in  the  moil  folemn  manner, 
"  for  the  honeft  execution  of  it.  For  fuch 
"  an  undertaking  only  anticipates  in  a 
"  profpecl;  pleafing  to  the  mind,  the  courfe 
"  of  its  own  integrity.  The  virtuous  man's 
"  promife  is  a  draught  on  the  bank  of  truth. 
"  He  makes  it  with  confidence,  for  he  knows 
"  it  will  be  paid  with  honour.  Thofe  only 
"  hefitate  to  offer  the  fame  fund  as  a  fecurity, 
ff  who  are  confcious  that  they  have  no  cor- 
<c  refpondence  with  it." 

Such  are  the  mofl  prominent  paffages  in 
the  Freeholder ;  and  I  cannot  doubt  that 
every  man  of  tafte  will  admit,  they  bear  an 
obvious  refemblance  to  the  letters  of  Juni- 
us,  both  in  matter  and  ftyle.  But  as  there 
are  many  points  difcufled,  and  many  pub- 
lick  characters  attacked,  by  Junius,  that  are 
not  even  mentioned  in  the  Freeholder,  I  mail 

make 


HUGfl   BOYb.  63 

make  a  few  extra&s  from  the  letters  of  DC- 
mocraticus,  and  of  the  Whig,  to  (hew  how  ex- 
aftly  Mr.  Boyd's  political  fentiments  corre- 
fpond  with  thofe  of  Junius,  in  every  parti- 
cular inftance. 

The  letters  of  Democraticus  appeared  in 
the  Pub  lick  Advertifer,  in  the  year  1 779.  Mr. 
Boyd  fent  them  to  Mr.  Woodfall,  in  his 
ordinary  hand-writing,  and  he  did  not  con- 
ceal from  Mrs.  Boyd  that  he  was  the  author 
of  them.  They  were  compofed  in  the  mod 
carelefs  and  hurried  manner,  like  common 
paragraphs  for  newfpapers  ;  and  many  of 
them  were  committed  to  paper  late  at  night, 
after  he  had  returned  home  greatly  fatigued 
from  having  attended  a  long  debate  in 
one  of  the  houfes  of  parliament.  Under 
thefe  circumftances,  to  fay  nothing  of  the 
numberlefs  difficulties  by  which,  at  this  pe- 
riod of  his  life,  much  more  than  at  any  other, 
he  was  unceafingly  teazed  and  perplexed,  it 
will  not,  I  prefume,  be  denied,  that  it  required 
a  mind  of  great  natural  itrength,  as  well  as 
one  long  praclifed  in  the  habits  of  literary 
composition,  to  have  produced  thefe  letters. 
As  to  their  ftyle,  though  it  be  in  general  of 

a  different 
3 


64  LIFE    OF 

a  different  mould  from  that  of  Junius,  yet 
in  fome  particular  parts  there  is  fo  evident 
a  likenefs  between  them,  that  k  is  hardly 
credible  it  could  have  efcaped  the  obferva- 
tion  of  Mr.  Henry  Sampfon  Woodfall  *. 
For  to  me,  at  leaft,  it  appears  perfectly  clear, 
that  the  writer  of  Democratic  us,  in  thofe  paf- 
fagesofhis  letters  that^ave  an  affinity*to  the 
compofitions  of  Junius,  has  through  hurry 
and  inattention  lapfed  into  a  ftyle  to  which 
he  had  been  long  accuflomed,  but  which  he 
was  defirous  to  avoid.  I  mail,  however, 
leave  the  publick  to  judge  for  themfelves. 

As  the  letters  of  Deinocraticm  are  chiefly 
addrerfed  to  Lord  NORTH,  it  is  neceffary 
to  remind  the  reader  of  the  particular  ex- 
preflions  in  which  Junius  has  delivered  his 
fentiments  concerning  the  publick  conduct 
of  that  nobleman.  In  a  letter  to  the  Duke 
ofGRAFTON,  dated  February  14th,  1770, 
fhortly  after  his  Grace  had  refigned  his  feat 
in  the  cabinet,  he  obferves — "  The  palm  of 

*  I  {hall  prefently  (hew,  that  there  is  fome  reafon  to 
fufpeft  Mr.  WooHfall  did  obferve  this  likenefs,  as  well 
as  one  or  two  other  circumftances  which  tend  to  prove 
that  Mr.  Boyd  was  Junius" 

"  minifterial 


HUGHBOYD.  65 

"  minifterial  firmnefs  is  now  transferred  to 
"-  Lord  North.  He  tells  us  fo  himfelf,  and 
"  with  the  plenitude  of  the  ore  'rotunda  *  ; 
"  and  I  am  ready  enough  to  believe,  that, 
"  while  he  can  keep  his  place,  he  will  not 
"  eafdy  be  perfuaded  to  r'efign  it.  Your 
"  Grace  was  the  firm  minifter  of  yefterday; 
"  Lord  North  is  the  firm  minifter  of  to-day. 
"  To-morrow,  perhaps,  his  Majefty,  in  his 
"  wifdom,  may  give  us  a  rival  for  you  both. 
"  You  are  too  well  acquainted  with  the  tem- 
"  per  of  your  late  allies,  to  think  it  poflible 
"  that  Lord  North  mould  be  permitted  to 
"  govern  this  country.  If  we  may  believe 
"  common  fame,  they  have  (hewn  him^  their 
"  fuperiority  already.  His  Majefty  is  in- 
"  deed  too  gracious  to  infult  his  fubjecls  by 
"  choofing  his  firft  minifter  from  among  the 
"  domefticks  of  the  Duke  of  BEDFORD; 
(!  that  would  have  been  too  grofs  an  outrage 
"  to  the  two  kingdoms.  Their  purpofe, 
"  however,  is  fufficiently  anfwered  by  pujh- 
"  ing  forward  this  unhappy  figure,  and  forc- 

*  This  eloquent  perfon  has  got  as  far  as  the  difoiplifte  of 
Demofthenes.  He  conftantly  fpeaks  with  pebbles  in  his 
mouth  to  improve  his  articulation.  Junlus. 

VOL.  I.  e  "  ing 


66  LIFE    OF 

Si  ing  him  to  bear  the  odium  of  meafures 
<(  which  they  in  reality  direcl.  Without  im- 
"  mediately  appearing  to  govern,  they  pof- 
"  fefs  the  power,  and  diftribute  the  emo/u- 
"  merits  of  government  as  they  think  pro- 
"  per."  In  another  letter  to  the  Duke  of 
Grafton,  he  fays,  "  to  them  who  know  Lord 
"  North,  it  is  unneceffary  to  fay,  that  he 
"  was  mean  and  low  enough  to  fubmit  to 
"  you.1'  And  in  his  letter  to  Lord  North 
himfelf,  after  reprobating  in  fevere  terms 
the  appointment  of  Lieut.  Colonel  LUT- 
TRELL,  to  the  pofl  of  adjutant  general  to 
the  army  in  Ireland,  he  concludes  by  telling 
his  Lordfhip — "  As  for  you,  my  Lord,  who, 
"  perhaps,  are  no  more  than  the  blind  un- 
"  happy  inftrument  of  Lord  BUTE,  and  her 
•;  Royal  Highnefs  the  Princefs  of  WALES, 
ts  be  allured  that  you  fliall  be  called  upon  to 
"  anlwer  for  the  advice  which  has  been 
"  given,  and  either  difcover your  accomplices, 
•f  or  fail  a  facrifice  to  their  fecurity." 

After  Lord  North  had  been  ten  years  in 
office,  Democratic^  entertained  the  very 
fame  opinion  of  him ;  and  he  exprefles  it 
in  language  equally  explicit,  and  if  poflible 

more 


HUGH  BOYD.  6j 

more  contemptuous  and  bold. — "  The  dif- 
"  grace  and  ruin  of  the  prefent  moment," 
fays  he,  "  we  owe  to  his  Lordfhip,  and  his 
"  accomplices  in  office.  This,  they  may  de- 
"  ny ;  for  what  will  they  not  deny  or 
"  aflert  ?  But  their  country  challenges  them 
"  to  the  proof.  It  is  a  truth  demonftrable 
"in  argument.  His  Lordfhip  has  been 
"  ten  years  in  power ;  in  office  at  Lea/I :  for 
"  T^am  aware  of  the  defence  under  which 
"  his  friends  would  fhelter  him  ;  and  will 
"  admit  to  him  every  reafonable  degree  of 
"  infignijicance,  as  to  his  honour,  both  as  a 
"  minifter  and  a  man.  But  he  has  not  been 
"  filfficiently  contemptible  to  be  fafe.  He 
"  has  had  power  enough  to  ruin  his  coun- 
"  try.  All  its  refources  have  been  at 
"  the  command  of  adminiflration.  Never 
"  was  government  fo  ftrongly  fupported. 
"  The  pubiick  purfe  has  been  poured  into 
"  their  coffers,  almoft  without  queftion,  or 
"  account.  The  pubiick  fword  was  placed 
"  in  their  hand  without  controul,  and  fharp- 
"  ened  at  their  pleafure  ;  and  the  flag  of 
i:  England  was  committed  to  their  care  un- 
is  ftained.  Monftrous  majorities  in  parlia- 
e  2  "  ment 


68  LIFE  OF 

"  ment  obeyed  their  mandates  ;  and  even 
"  the  people,  till  their  late  bitter  experience, 
"  were  deluded,  and  inflamed  into  a  kind  of 
"  concurrence  in  their  violences.  Such  was 
"  the  fulnefs  of  power  intruded  to  our  mi- 
"  nifters."  *******#«  You,  my  Lord, 
*'  and  the  exclufive  partners  of  your  gratifi- 
"  cations,  have  the  exclufive  praife  of  all 
"  our  preterit  fituation.  And  if  minifters  can 
<c  yet  be  refponfible  in  this  finking  country, 
"  you  and  your  aflbciates  have  an  exc/ujive 
"  title  to  publick  vengeance!'  In  another  let- 
ter, perfonally  addrefled  to  Lord  North,  he 
oberves,  "  If  any  doubt  could  remain  on  the 
"  fate  of  fuch  a  minifter,  left  to  himfelf,  the 
'•'  hiftory  of  your  militia  will  remove  it. 
"  Let  us  gratefully  recollect  the  political 
"  juftice  of  that  fcene,  in  which  you  fo  fuc- 
"  cefsfully  plotted  your  own  tragi-comic 
"  cataftrOphe.  It  is  almoft  too  ludicrous 
"  to  be  gravely  treated ;  and  yet  it  may  be 
"  too  ferious  in  its  confequences  for  ridicule 
"  or  contempt.  It  is  impoflible  not  to  laugh 
"  at  Faljlajf,  buffeted  by  his  own  friends, 
"  and  outwitted  in  his  own  knavery ;  but 
"  indignation  checks  our  mirth,  when  wfe 

"  remember 


HUGH    BOYD.  p 

**  remember  that  the  fat  man  has  mi/led  the 
<(  frincc,  and  pillaged  the  exchequer." 

It  is  obfervable,  that  this  pafTage  is  pecu- 
liarly in  the  ftyle  of  Jumus ;  and  perhaps 
there  is  not  even  in  the  moft  highly  finished 
of  the  letters  under  that  fignature,  a  more 
happy  or  appropriate  allufion.  But  there 
are  ftill  a  few  more  paragraphs  in  thofe  let- 
ters, which,  though  not  exactly  in  the  lan- 
guage, are  fo  much  in  the  fpirit  of  Jumus, 
that  I  mud  beg  leave  to  point  them  out. 

In  his  letter  to  Lord  North,  already 
quoted,  Democraticus  obferves,  "  In  times 
"  of  rebellion,  it  was  in  common  obfervation, 
t:  that  the  traitor  was  hated^  though  the 
"  treafon  was  loved.  You,  my  Lord,  per- 
"  haps  (land  acquitted  from  crimes  fo  ex- 
"  alted.  But  levelling  the  argument  to 
"  your  official  fituation,  it  may  be  prudent 
"  to  confider  that  the  tools  of  power  are 
"  firft  defpifed,  and  at  laft  thrown  afide,  by 
"  thofe  who  have  employed  them.  Recol- 
"  lecl:,  my  Lord,  and  feel,  if  you  can,  the 
ft  real  relation  in  which  you  Hand  to  a 
*f  great  connexion  of  power,  under  which  you 
"  have  been  prime  minifter.  The  degree 

of 


70  LIFE    OF 

"  of  refpecl:  that  you  receive  from  the  dig- 
"  nity  of  the  lord  prefident,  cannot  now  be 
"  ambiguous    even    to    your    infenfibility. 
"  Lord  Weymouth  tells  the  fecret   every 
"  evening.    Mr.  Rigby  entertains  the  Houfe 
"  of  .Commons  with  it ;  and  no  wonder  that 
"  he  thinks    it  an  excellent  joke  ;    for  he 
"  gets  both  the  laugh  and  the  vote  on  his 
"  fide.     But,  indeed,  my  Lord,  your  per- 
"  fonal  eflimation  feems  alike  in  all.     *  *  * 
a  *  *  From  numberlefs  inflances  of  infigni- 
"  ficance,  and  of  danger,  confequently,  in 
"  which  you  ftand,  when  left  to  your  own 
"  weaknefs,  I  have  felecled  the  defeat   of 
"  your   militia,   and  your  confeffed  impo- 
"  tence  of  every  national  refource,  becaufe 
"  it  is  the  moft  inftant  in  its  confequence. 
"  I  would  warn  you  in  fober  fincerity  of 
"  your  imminent  peril.    You  have  not  quite 
"  benumbed   the    country.      The  people  of 
"  England  have  feeling,  my  Lord,  if  they  have 
"  not  forefight.     The  hour  of  trial,  perhaps  of 
"  ruin,  is  at  hand."     It  will  be  recollecled 
in  what  terms  Junius  talks  of  Lord  Wey- 
mouth and  Mr.  Rigby  in  various  parts  of 
his  letters ;  and  it  will  be  found,  that  they 

are 


HUGH   BOYD.  7! 

arc  always  mentioned  by  Mr.  Boyd  in  lan- 
guage nearly  fimilar.  Of  Mr.  Wedder- 
burne  Junius  obferves,  "  that  there  is  fome- 
"  thing  about  him  which  even  treachery 
"  cannot  trujl"  And  in  another  place  he 
fays  of  him,  "  to  facrifice  a  refpe&ed  cha- 
"  rafter,  and  to  renounce  the  eiteem  of 
"  fociety,  requires  more  than  Mr.  Wedder- 
"  burne's  refolution  :  and  though  in  him  it 
"  was  rather  a  profeflion  than  a  defertion 
"  of  his  principles  (I  [peak  tenderly  of  this 
"  gentleman,  for,  when  treachery  is  in  quejlion, 
"  I  think  we  Jhould  make  allowances  J or  a 
tl  Scotchman)  yet  we  have  feen  him  in  the 
"  Houfe  of  Commons  overwhelmed  with 
"  confufion,  and  almoft  bereft  of  his  facul- 
"  ties."  Democraticus  talks  of  him  in  terms 
more  guarded,  but  not  on  that  account  the 
lefs  fevere.  Speaking  of  Lord  North,  he 
afks,  "  Did  his  Lordfhip  referve  his  defence 
"  for  this  day,  when  again,  perhaps,  the 
"  charge  (hall  be  urged  againft  him  ?  Or 
"  will  he  continue  contumacious  at  his 
"peril?  Even  the  found  discretion  of  Mr. 
"  Wedderburne  will  difgrace  its  definition, 
*<  and  will  hefitate  at  the  tyrannous  and 

"  traitorous 


72  LIFE     OF 

"  traitorous  profcription  of  the  befl  and 
"  bravefl  *  men  of  our  fervice,  though  kis 
"  nature  was  amply  indulged  in  their  ground- 
".  lefs  and  malicious  profecution" 

In  another  letter  Democraticus  reflects 
upon  the  character  of  Lord  Sandwich,  in 
the  warmed  language  of  indignation  and 
reproach-  Addrefling  himfelf  to  Lord 
North,  he  fays,  "Self-defence,  my  Lord, 
"  may  be  the  law  of  art,  as  it  is  of  na- 
"  ture.  We  will  not  wonder,  therefore, 
"  that  you  and  your  friends  mould  drain 
"  every  artifice  to  ruin  the  nobleft  honour, 
"  and  the  moft  approved  virtue  in  the  king- 
"  dom  ;  becaufe  that  virtue  is  too  pure,  and 
"  that  honour  too  illuftrious,  to  mix  with 
"  rneannefs,  malice,  and  difgrace;  becaufe 
"  thofe  honourable  and  injured  men  \vTill 
•'**  not  ferve  their  country,  while  you  prefide 
"  at  the  treafury ;  while  your  affefTor  holds 
"  the  department  that-  was  American,  and 
"  continues  his  baleful  influence  with  the 
« ghofts  of  the  departed  colonies ;  and 
"  while  the  Jlain  of  office  t,  that  reproach 

*  Trie  here  alludes  to  the  trial  of  Admiral  Keppel. 
t  Meaning  my  Lord  Sandwich. 

"and 


HUGH   BOYD.  73 

cf  andjligma  of  every  thing  decent  in  private 
"life,  or  dignified  in  puUick  conduffi,  ufurps 
"  the  care  of  the  BRITISH  FLAG."  Jumus's 
fentiments  with  regard  to  this  noble  Lord, 
are  fufficiently  explained  in 'one  of  his  let- 
ters to  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  wherein  he 
obferves,  "  We  can  eafily  account  for  your 
"  violating  your  engagements  with  men  of 
"  honour ;  but  why  fhould  you  betray  your 
"  natural  connexions?  Why  feparate  your- 
"  felf  from  Lord  Sandwich,  Lord  Gower, 
"  and  Mr.  Rigby  ?  With  all  the  fafhion- 
"  able  indulgence  of  the  times,  this  country 
"  does  not  abound  in  characters  like  theirs  ; 
t(  and  you  may  find  it  a  very  difficult  mat- 
"  ter  to  recruit  the  black  catalogue  of  your 
"friends" — No  man,  I  mould  imagine,  can 
read  the  above  paflages  attentively,  with- 
out being  forcibly  ftruck  with  the  fimilitude 
of  their  fentiments,  fpirit,  and  manner.  But, 
I  (hall  now  proceed  to  mew,  in  a  few  ex- 
tracls  from  the  letters  of  the  Whig,  not  only 
that  Mr.  Boyd's  principles  were  the  fame  as 
thofe  of  Junius,  but  alfo  that  he  harboured 
in  his  mind  the  fame  peculiarity  of  political 
attachments  and  antipathies,  as  well  as  the 

fame 


74  LITE  OF 

fame  daring  fpirit ;  and  if  the  Whig  be  more 
diffufe  in  his  ftyle,  and  lefs  keen  in  his  fatire, 
than  Junius,  his  language  is  at  leaft  equally 
nervous  and  elegant,  and  his  reproaches 
equally  dignified  and  fevere. 

The  letters  of  the  Whig  appeared  in  Mr. 
Almon's  paper,  the  London  Courant,  in  the 
winter  of  1779,  and  in  the  fpring  of  1780. 
Mr.  Boyd  confefled  to  Mrs.  Boyd,  that  he 
was  the  author  of  them ;  nor  did  he  keep 
the  fecret  from  Mr.  Almon,  who  had  long 
before  that  period  been  fully  convinced, 
from  feveral  flrong  circumftances*,  that  he 
was  in  reality  the  writer  of  Junius's,  letters. 
Some  part  of  the  MSS.  of  the  Whig  is  ftill 
extant,  and  I  have  feen  it : — it  is  written  in 
Mr.  Boyd's  ordinary  hand-writing,  though 
perhaps  in  fomewhat  of  a  larger  letter,  and 
it  bears  every  appearance  of  having  been 
executed  in  great  hade.  Xn  faft,  he  com- 
pofed  the  letters  of  the  Whig,  nearly  in  the 
fame  negligent  manner  that  he  did  thofe  of 
the  Freeholder,  and  of  Democraticus ;  and 
they  exhibit  the  fame  range  of  mind,  to- 

*   See  Mr.  Almon's  Letter  on  this  fubjedl,  in  the  Ap- 
pendix to  the  Life. 

gether 


HUGH    BO  YD. 


75 


gether  with  the  like  eafe  and  perfpicuity  of 
diclion. 

The  opinion  of  Junius,  with  regard  to 
our  conftitutional  maxim,  that  the  King  can 
do  no  wrong,  is  well  known.  But  let  us 
compare  the  language  in  which  he  has  deli- 
vered it,  with  that  of  the  Whig,  on  this  deli- 
cate fubjecl. 


WHIG. 

When  it  is    truly   faid, 
that  the  King  can  do  no  wrong, 
the  office  is   intended,  and 
not   the    perfon ;    and   this 
true  conftruclion  is  the  per- 
feft  praife    of  our  admirable 
conftitulion.     The    King    of 
England    can   do  no  wrong; 
for  it  is  not  the  office  of  the 
King  to  do  any  thing.     The 
cautious     \vifdom     of    our 
policy  will  not  permit   the 
King  to  aft.     *****  The 
office  of  King  being  thus 
confidered,   I  truft  with  due 
refpeft: ;  for  I  think  it  re- 
ceives the  highelt,  when  de- 
fined as  part  of  the  confti- 
tution;  it  remain"  to  remind 
the  perfon  appointed  to  that 
office,  that  he  is  a  man  ; — 
that  in  his  perfonal  capacity 
he  may,  he  muft  do  wrong; 
for  error  is  effential  to  hu- 
manity.    It  remains  to  de- 
monftrate  to  him,  that  who- 
ever confounds   his  perfon 
with  his  office,  is  a  fatal  ene- 
my 


JUNIUS. 

If  it  be  really  a  part  ol 
our  conftitution,  and  not  a 
mere  ditfum  of  the  law,  thai 
the  King  can  do  no  wrong,  it  is 
not  the  only  inllance,  in  the 
wife/i  of  human  injiitutions, 
where  theory  is  at  variance 
with  practice.  That  the 
Sovereign  of  this  country  is 
not  amenable  to  any  form 
of  trial  known  to  the  laws, 
is  unquefticnable.  But  ex- 
emption from  punifhment  is 
a  (ingular  privilege  annexed 
to  the  royal  character,  and 
no  way  excludes  the  pojjibi- 
lity  of  deferving  it.  •  How 
long,  and  to  what  extent,  a 
King  of  England  may  be 
protected  by  the  forms, 
when  he  violates  the  fpirit 
of  the  conftitution,  deferves 
to  be  confidered.  A  miftake 
in  this  matter  proved  fatal  to 
Charles  and  his  fan,\ 

In  another  place,  he  fays, 

The  do8rine  inculcated  by 

our  laws,  thattbeKing  can  do  no 

wrong, 


76  LIFE   OF 

WHIG.  JUNIUS. 

my  to  both ;  for  that  they  wrong,  is  admitted  without 
are  fo  perfectly  diftindl  in  reluctance.  We  feparate 
their  nature,  attributes,  and  the  amiable  good-natured 
intcrefts,  that  the  abufe  oi  prince  from  the  folly  and 
one  is  expiable  only  by  the  treachery  of  his  fervants, 
punifhment  of  the  other,  and  the  private  virtues  of 
The  conftitution  will  not  the  man  from  the  vices  of 
admit  that  tbt  King  did  his  government.  Were  it 
wrong;  and  the  law  fays  not  for  this  difiinclion,  I 
that  the  King  never  dies :  but  know  not  whether  your  Ma- 
Charles  Stuart  was  an  olfti-  je/ifs  condition,  or  that  of  the 
•nate  tyrant  ;  and  Charles  Englifh  nation,  would  defervc 
Stuart  loft  bis  bead.  mo/i  to  be  lamented. 

Thus  we  find  that  the  opinions  of  Junius 
and  the  Whig,  on  this  queftion,  moft  per- 
fectly agree ;  and  it  is  obfervable  that  the 
Whig  explains  himfelf  with  the  greateft  free- 
dom of  the  two. 

Junius's  antipathy  to  the  Scotch  is  too 
generally  known,  to  render  it  any  way  necef- 
fary  for  me  to  cite  the  various  pafiages  in 
his  letters,  in  which  it  is  expreffed.  Every 
perfon  will  obferve  the  ftriking  fimilarity 
between  the  following  extract  from  a  letter 
of  the  Whig's,  and  thofe  parts  of  J unius' s 
writings,  wherein  the  Scotch  are  mentioned. 
In  the  Whig's  letter  to  Lord  Thurlow,  after 
having-  fpoken  of  Lord  North,  and  Lord 
Hilfborough,  with  great  bitternefs  and  afpe- 

rity* 


HUGH   BOYD,  77 

rity,  he  fays,  e:  I  afk  pardon  from  my  reader 
"  for  defcending  to  fuch  mifery  ;  rendered 
'"  worthy  of  publick  notice  only  from  your 
"  fingular  fupport.  No  nobleman,  except 
"  your  Lordfhip,  has  (looped  to  it  ;  no 
"  Englifhman,  except  yourfelf,  has  fo  in- 
"  fulted  his  country.  Even  in  the  Houfe 
"  of  Commons,  none  but  Scotch  lawyers 
"  were  found  hardy  enough  on  that  day,  to  in- 
"Jiilt  this  kingdom.  And  even  they,  with  all 
"  the  fervility  of  their  country  9  and  venality 
"of  their  profejfion,  (Mr.  ADAM,  indeed, 
"  is  but  a  young  practitioner)  were  forced  to 
"  confefs  the  fluggimnefs  of  Lord  North. 
"  They  did  not  poji  from  Scotland,  to  ap- 
"  plaud  the  minifter,  whofe  irrefoludon  has 
"  renewed  rebellion  in  their  kirk,  and  whofe 
"  continued  power  will  add  depopulation  and 
ft  famine  to  their  country.  No,  my  Lord, 
"  they  were  too  difcreet.  They  crojjed  the 
"  Tweed  according  to  the  diftindion  fuggeft- 
'*  ed  by  their  countryman,  and  pretty  fteadily 
"adopted  fince, — not  to  defend  mini- 
"Jlers,  but  fupport  government.  And  the 
"  doftrine  is  now  eftablifhed  in  practice  by 
<{  an  immediate  proficient  from  Lord  MANS- 

"WELD'S 


^8  LIFE   OF 

"  FIELD'S  fchool; — that  the  only  mode  offufi* 
"  porting  government,  is  to  (lander  the  peo- 
"  pie  ;  to  demonflrate,  that  we  have  neither 
*e  virtue,  talents,  nor  fpirit  among  us ;  that 
"  we  ought,  therefore,  to  endure  difgrace 
"  and  defeat  as  our  neCeflary  lot,  and  hew 
"  our  wood,  and  draw  our  water,  without 
"  repining." 

"  The  exclitjive  infamy  of  fuch  auxiliaries, 
"  were  itfelf  fufficient  to  drag  down  the  dig- 
"  nity  of  any  character.  Firmer  fame,  even 
"  than  yours,  if  it  rifqued  fuch  ruin,  could 
"  not  efcape  it.  When  the  Lord  High 
"  Chancellor  of  England  defcends  from  his 
"  prefiding  feat  in  the  affembly  of  the  no- 
"  bles,  to  mix  with  impudent  mercenaries,  in 
"  a  caufe  which  every  man  of  honour  fhrinks 
'*  from,  he  forfeits  every  reputation,  and  his 
"  glory  will  fet  more  rapidly  than  it  rofe. 
"  Defcent  and  fall,  which,  with  the  fpirits  of 
"  MILTON,  we  thought  adverfe,  at  leaft  to 
. "  the  magnanimity  of  his  character,  will  grow 
"  natural,  neceffary,  and  inftant  to  its  abafe- 
"  ment.  He  finks  for  ever."  In  feveral 
other  parts  of  thefe  letters,  the  Whig  fpeaks 
of  the  Scotch  in  fimilar  terms  of  reproach ; 

but 


HUGH  BOYD.  79 

but  particularly  in  his  letter  addrefled  to 
the  Majority  of  the  Houfe  of  Commons, 
who  divided  with  minifters  againft  Sir 
GEORGE  SAVILLE'S  motion  for  a  lift  of  all 
the  fubfifting  penfions  granted  by  the  crown, 
he  obferves, — "  England  will  fee,  that  thofe, 
"  and  almoft  only  thofe,  who  either  hold 
"  places  under  the  crown,  receive  penfions 
(t  from  the  minifter,  or  have  invaded  us 
"  from  the  northern  part  of  the  ijland,  are 
"  the  perfons  who  confpire  againft  the  pro- 
"  perty  and  Liberty  of  the  people"  He  then 
proceeds  to  point  out  to  them,  the  danger- 
ous and  dreadful  confequences  that  may 
probably  follow  a  too  obftinate  adherence 
to  the  corrupt  and  pernicious  counfels  of 
Lord  North  ;  and  concludes  by  exhorting 
them  to  affert  the  dignity  of  their  ftation, 
and  to  throw  off  their  fervile  dependence  on 
minifters. — "  Break,"  fays  he,  "  the  difgrace- 
"  ful  chains,  that  have  fo  long  bound  you  to 
"  an  abandoned  adrniniftration ;  and  retain 
"  from  the  forgivenefs  of  the  people,  what  you 
"  cannot  longer  withhold  from  their  indig- 
"  nation.  Not  the  gifts,  but  the  givers,  have 
"  di/graced  you.  Your  places,  yourpenfans, 


o  LIFE    OF 

"  even  the  country  offome  of  you,  cannot  juft* 
"  ly  fubjecl:  you  to  pofitive  reproach.  It  is 
"  only  as  they  have  inclined  and  dtbaftd,  you 
"  into  infamous  fervility,  that  they  have 
"grown  proverbial  in  the  contempt* of  man- 
"  kir^d.  But  in  prudence,  if  not  in  honour t 
**  'affume  the  virtue  if  you  fiave  it  not;'  nor 
w  longer  devote  yourfelves  to  common  rum 
"  with  the  falling  edifice  of  corruption.  It 
«e  makes  already  to  its  foundation  ;  the 
"  breath  of  the  people  will  level  it  for 
"ever." 

Thefe  cenfures  of  the  Scotch,  it  may  be 
faid,  are  nothing  more  than  the  popular 
language  of  the  times  in  which  they  were 
written ;  and  that  therefore  their  refem- 
blance  to  the  fentiments  of  Junius  on  this 
fubjecl:,  furnifhes  no  argument  in  the  pre- 
fent  difcuffion.  But,  it  is  not  fo  much  to 
the  parity  of  particular  fentiments  or  phrafes, 
as  to  the  famenefs  of  the  general  fpirit  by 
which  they  are  animated,  that  I  wifh  to  fix 
the  reader's  attention.  The  hoftility  of 
Junius  towards  the  Scotch,  proceeded  no 
lefs  from  an  utter  abhorrence  of  the  politi- 
cal principles  upon  which  the  leading  men 

of 


HUGH    BOYD.  8l 

of  that  nation  then  a£led,  than  from  an  en- 
tire convi&ion,  that  if  thofe  principles  were 
permitted  to  take  root  in  England,  they 
would  ultimately  branch  out,  and  grow 
above  the  legal  liberties  of  the  people. 
Whether  or  not  his  opinion  was  well  found- 
ed, it  is  no  way  incumbent  on  me  to  in- 
quire ;  I  only  mean  to  date,  that  it  is  mani- 
fed  from  the  fpirit  of  the  remarks  made  on 
the  national  character  of  the  Scotch,  both 
by  Junius  and  the  Whig,  that  at  lead  much 
of  their  apparent  enmity  arofe  from  a  defire 
to  rouze  the  indignation  and  point  the  ha- 
tred of  the  people  againd  the  toryifm  intro- 
duced into  his  Majedy's  councils  by  Lord 
Bute  and  Lord  Mansfield,  and  to  keep  alive 
in  the  breads  of  Englishmen,  that  watchful 
jealoufy  of  their  rulers,  which  is  eflential 
to  the  confervation  of  publick  freedom. 
But  the  juflnefs  of  thefe  obfervations  will 
be  bed  proved  by  comparing  the  fpirit 
of  the  following  paffage  from  Junius,  with 
that  of  thofe  of  the  Whig  above  quoted.  In 
Junius's  firft  letter  to  Lord  Mansfield,  he  fays, 
— "  Permit  me  to  begin  with  paying  a  jufl 
"  tribute  to  Scotch  fmcerity  wherever  I  find 
VOL.  i.  /  "  it. 


82  LIFE   OF 

"  it.  I  own  I  am  not  apt  to  confide  in  the 
"  profellions  of  gentlemen  of  that  country  ; 
"  and  when  they  fmrle,  I  feel  an  involuntary 
"  emotion  to  guard  myfelf  againft  mifchief. 
•'  With  this  general  opinion  of  an  ancient 
"  nation,  I  always  thought  it  much  to  your 
•*•  Lordfhip's  honour,  that  in  your  earlier 
**"  days  you  were  but  little  infefted  with  the 
"  prudence  of  your  country."  ******  The 
"  liberal  fpirit  of  youth  prevailed  overjy0wr 
"  native  difcretion"—  *  *  *  *  There  was 
"  fomething  generous  in  your  attachment  to 
"  the  banifked  Houfe  of  Stuart.  We  lament 
"  the  miftakes  of  a  good  man,  and  do  not 
"  begin  to  deteft  him  until  he  affecls  to  re- 
'*  nounce  his  principles.  Why  did  you  not 
*;  adhere  to  the  loyalty  you  once  profefled? 
"  Why  did  you  not  follow  the  example  of 
•'•'  your  worthy  brother  *  ?  With  him  you 
"  might  have  Jhared  in  the  honour  of  the 
5f  Pretender's  confidence  ;  with  him  you 
•ts  might  have  preferved  the  integrity  of 

*  This  man  was  always  a  rank  Jacobite.  Lord  Ravenf- 
worth  produced  the  moft  fatisfadlory  evidence  of  his 
having  frequently  drank  the  Pretender's  health  on  his 
'knees.  Juntas. 

i  "  your 


HUGH  BOYD.  83 

"  your  chara&er;  and  England,  I  think, 
"  might  have  fpared  you  without  regret. 
"  Your  friends  will  lay,  perhaps,  that  al- 
"  though  you  deferted  the  fortune  of  your 
"  liege  Lord,  you  have  frmly  adhered  to  the 
<:  principles  which  drove  his  father  from  the 
"throne;  that,  without  openly  fupporting 
"  the  perfon,  you  have  done  eflential  fer- 
"  vice  to  the  caufe ;  and  confoled  yourfelf 
(:  for  the  lofs  of  a  favourite  family,  by  re- 
"  viving  and  ejlabli/hing  the  maxims  of  his 
"  government.  This  is  the  way  in  which  a 
"  Scotchman's  underftanding  corrects  the 
"  errors  of  his  heart.  My  Lord,  I  acknow- 
*•'  ledge  the  truth  of  the  defence,  and  can 
"  trace  it  through  all  your  conduct.  I  fee 
"  through  your  whole  life  one  uniform  plan 
"  to  enlarge  the  power  of  the  crown,  at  the 
"  expence  of  the  liberty  of  the  fubjett.  To 
"  this  objecl:  your  thoughts,  words,  and  ac- 
"  tions,  have  been  conftantly  directed."  It 
were  needlefs  to  quote  this  pafTage  any  fur- 
ther. The  conformity  of  its  fpirit  to  that 
of  the  farcafms  of  the  Whig,  on  Lord  Mans- 
jfield  and  the  Scotch,  muft  already  be  fuffi- 
ciently  evident. 

/2  With 


84  LIFE    OF 

With  regard  to  Lord  Bute,  it  is  well 
known  that  Junius  heaps  reproaches  upon 
him  with  abundant  liberality.  In  a  note  to 
the  moft  celebrated  of  all  his  letters,  after 
defcribing  the  manner  in  which  the  King 
was  placed  under  the  care  of  Lord  Bute,  be 
obferves,  — "  That  was  the  falient  point 
'<  from  which  all  the  mifchiefs  and  difgraces 
"  of  the  prefent  reign  took  life  and  mo- 
"  tion."  The  Whig  exprefles  the  fame  fen- 
timent,  by  a  figure  equally  illuftrative. 
fi  The  early  exclufion  of  Mr.  Pitt,  and  in- 
'"  troduclion  of  the  Earl  of  Bute,  were  the 
'•'  firft  bitter  waters  of  that  fatal  fountain 
"  which  has  almofl  deluged  the  rights  and 
"  power  of  the  people." 

EveYy  one  will  recollect,  that  Junius  was 
an  enemy  to  feptennial,  and  an  advocate  for 
triennial  parliaments.  In  his  letter  to  Mr. 
WJLKE-S,  he  entered  at  large  into  the  fub- 
jec\  and  exprefsly  declared  himfelf  to  that 
effecL  On  this  queftion  the  Whig  curforily, 
but  forcibly  obferves,  that  the  "  opportu- 
•"•nities  and  temptations  to  defpotifm,  feem- 
-":ed  to  have  attained  their  full  maturity,  at 
<;  the  commencement  of  the  prefent.  reign. 

«  The 


HUGH    BOYD.  85 

"  Thefepttnnia!  atl  offuicide,  abhorrent  cer- 
"  tainly  from  the  popular  nature  of  par- 
ts  liament,  and  deftrudive  of  its  due  inde- 
"  pendence  on  the  crown,  had  long  been 
<'  perpetrated," 

Speaking  of  the  popularity  with  which 
his  Majefty  afcended  the  throne,  Junius 
and  the  Whig  have  exprefTed  the  fame  fen- 
timents,  in  language  very  much  alike. 


fufi 


WHIG. 

The  time  of  his  Majefty's 
afcenfion  to  the  throne,  was 
full  of  fuch  peculiar  circum- 
ftances  of  popularity,  as 

ve  unlimited,  becaufe  un- 
ufpefted,  power.  Into  that 
aufpicious  moment  was 
crowded  all  the  promife  of 
his  youth,  founded  in  the 
fond  memory  of  all  the  vir- 
tues of  his  anceftors  ;  of  his 
youth  rifing,  as  it  feemed, 
to  renew  the  race  of  glory 
that  they  had  run,  even  up 
to  the  recent  goal  of  uni- 
verfal  conquelt.  Nature 
and  fortune  confpired  to 
give  the  young  monarch  of 
that  day  an  empire  the  beft 
and  mo  ft  permanent  that 
monarchs  can  enjoy,  if  they 
wifh  to  maintain  it, — an  ab- 
folute  power  in  the  hearts 
of  his  lubjecls. 


JUNIUS. 

You  afcended  the  throne 
with  a  declared,  and,  I  doubt 
not,  a  fincere  refolution  of 
giving  univerfal  fatisfaftion 
.to  your  fub  lefts.  You 
found  them  pleafed  with 
the  novelty  of  a  young 
prince,  whofc  countenance 
promifed  even  more  than 
his  words ;  and  loyal  to 
you  not  only  from  principle 
but  paffion.  It  was  not  a 
cold  profemon  of  allegiance 
to  the  firft  magiftrate,  but  a 
partial  animated  attachment 
to  a  favourite  prince,  the 
native  of  their  country. 
They  did  not  wait  to  exa- 
mine your  conduct,  nor  to 
be  determined  by  experi- 
ence, but  '_;ave  you  a  gene- 
rous credit"  for  the  future 
bleflings  of  your  reign,  and 
paid  you  in  advance  the 
dearelt  tribute  of  their  af. 
feclions. 

Many 


S6  LIFE  OF 

Many  other  parallel  paffages  might  b£ 
pointed  out  in  the  Whig  and  Junius,  were  I 
not  fearful  of  fatiguing  the  patience  of  my 
readers,  by  increafing  thefe  citations  which, 
perhaps,  they  already  think  too  numerous. 
But  there  are  two  more  paragraphs  in  the 
letters  of  the  Whig,  which  fo  peculiarly  re- 
femble  the  general  fpirit  and  manner  of 
Junius,  that  I  mould  deem  it  unpardonable 
not  to  notice  them.  Talking  of  the  changes 
which  corruption  and  mifgovernment  have 
introduced  into  the  Britifh  conftitution,  he 
fays, — "The  Britifh  conftitution.hath  chang- 
"  ed  its  form,  and  is  lofing  its  fpirit.  Some 
"  magick  has  metamorphofed  the  ancient 
"  pyramid  into  the  deformity  of  a  Ghinefe 
"  pagoda.  The  beautiful  ftrength  of  its 
"  order  is  gone;  and  we  now  tremble  for 
"  the  narrowed  bafe  ;  oppreffed  by  the  mid- 
"  die  ;  with  rrionfters  at  the  top !" 

In  another  letter,  wherein  he  reprobates 
the  ferviiity  of  minifters,  and  the  corruptions 
of  the  court,  he  fays,— "  Weaknefs  alone 
"  were  not  a  fufBcient  qualification  for  a 
"  modern  minifter —  He  mufl  be  atlively 
"  contemptible  if  he  expect  honour  at  court. 

«  *  #  *  *  Qc. 


HUGH   BOYD.  87 

"  *  *  *  *  Occafions  are  ftudioufly  contrive4 
"  to  bend  and  fubdue  the  fpirits  of  men  : 
"  and  thofe  are  advanced  the  higheft  in  the 
"fervice,  who  have  beft  learned  the  discipline 
"  of  dif grace.  There  mould  be  little  won- 
"  der  that  commanders  in  fuch  a  fervice  are 
"  fought  for  from  the  ranks"— 

"  I  trull  I  have  now  fully  demonftrated, 
that  Mr.  Boyd's  political  principles,  opi- 
nions, and  fentiments,  were  precifely  the 
fame  as  thofe  of  Junius  ;  and  that  his  politi- 
cal writings  bear  a  more  linking  refemblance 
to  the  general  ftyle  and  fpirit  of  the  cele- 
brated letters  under  that  fignature,  than  any 
other  compofitions  which  have  hitherto  been 
prefented  to  the  publick.  It  remains,  how- 
ever, to  {hew,  that  this  refemblance  did  not 
proceed  from  a  ftudied  imitation,  but  from  a 
predilection  for  that  caft  of  thought,  and  of 
language  to  which  his  mind  had  been  long 
accuftomed.  Tomakeadiflinctionof  this  na- 
ture, in  general,  perhaps  requires  one  of  the 
niceft  and  moft  refined  operations  of  critical 
tafte ;  but  in  the  particular  inftance  before 
us,  it  is  to  be  determined  by  a  few  plain 
facls,  and  by  an  argument  fo  fimple  and 

obvious, 


88  LIFE   OF 

obvious,  that  I  doubt  not  it  will  be  intelli- 
gible and  fatisfa6lory  to  every  underftand- 
ing. 

It  has  been  very  generally  imagined  that 
the  ftyle '  of  Junius  is  perfe&ly  original; 
that  it  was  formed  upon  no  model ;  and 
that  in  the  ftru&ure  of  it  the  author  was 
indebted  to  no  matter.  But  an  examination 
of  the  ftyle,  manner,  and  fpirit,  of  two 
performances,  that  in  the  time  of  Junius 
were  rather  fcarce,  and  that  are  ftill  little 
known  but  by  name,  will  inconteftibly  prove 
the  utter  fallacy  of  fuch  a  fuppofition.  One 
of  thefe  performances,  which  I  have  already 
had  occafion  to  quote,  is  intitled,  Killing  no 
Murder*.  It  was  written  by  the  famous  Co- 
lonel TITUS,  while  in  clofe  confinement  in 
the  Tower,  by  the  order  of  CROMWELL. 
It  is  a  remonftrance  to  the  people  of  Eng- 
land againfl  the  tamenefs  with  which  they 
fubmitted  to  the  ufurpation  of  the  Proteftor ; 
and  its  main  argument  is  defigned  to  (hew, 
that  fo  far  from  being  a  crime,  it  would  be 

*  In  1792,  this  pamphlet  was  reprinted  for  Ridgeway, 
with  a  dedication  to  the  late  Emprefs 


an 


HUGH   BOYD.  89 

an  aft  of  heroick  virtue  to  murder  him  by 
whatever  means  the  nature  of  circumftances 
might  render  the  mod  effe&ual.  It  com- 
mences  with  a  dedication  to  Cromwell, 
which  is  no  lefs  remarkable  for  its  unexam- 
pled boldnefs,  than  for  a  claflical  flrength 
and  elegance  of  diftion,  very  uncommon  in 
the  age  in  which  it  was  written,  and  that 
would  do  honour  to  the  more  polilhed  pe- 
riods of  Englifh  literature. 

The  other  performance  is  Lord  Bo  LIN  G- 
BR ORE'S  political  letters,  which  he  originally 
publifhed  in  the  Craftsman  under  the  figna- 
ture  of  Caleb  D'Anvers,  and  fome  of  which, 
together  with  his  letters  on  the  Hiftory  of 
England,  and  his  dedication  to  Lord  Ox- 
ford, are  now  to  be  found  in  Vol.  1L  of  his 
Mifcellaneous  Works. 

From  thefe  productions,  but  efpecially 
Lord  Bolingbroke's,  the  writer  of  the  letters 
of  Junius  unqueftionably  formed  his  ftyle  : 
and  it  is  a  fa&,  as  curious  in  itfelf,  as  it  is  in- 
terefling  in  this  difcuflion,  that  both  Colonel 
Titus's  tracl,  and  Lord  Bolingbroke's  letters, 
were  fo  familiar  to  Mr.  Boyd,  that  he  could 
almoft  repeat  the  whole  of  them.  Of  Killing 

no 


no  Murder  he  had,  when  I  knew  him,  a 
copy  of  the  original  edition,  upon  which  he 
fet  a  great  value ;  and  the  dedication  to 
Cromwell,  as  well  as  feveral  other  parts  of 
that  performance,  he  has  very  frequently 
repeated  to  me.  Of  Lord  Bolingbroke's 
letters  on  the  Hiftory  of  England  I  have  of- 
ten heard  him  exprefs  his  high  admiration ; 
but  the  philofophical  works  of  that  noble- 
man he  always  reprobated  in  the  fevered 
terms.  When  thefe  circumftances  are  com- 
bined with  the  faft,  that  the  letters  of  the 
Freeholder  and  Whig  have  in  many  paflages 
a  peculiar  affinity  both  to  the  reafoning  and 
manner  of  Lord  Bolingbroke's  writings,  we 
muft  conclude  in  argument,  that  it  was  up- 
on thofe  writings  Mr.  Boyd  modelled  his 
political  flyle ;  and  that  therefore  the  lan- 
guage of  jfunius,  and  that  of  the  Freeholder 
and  Whig,  were  caft  in  the  fame  mould. 
But  in  order  to  fubftantiate  the  truth  of 
this  inference,  I  (hall  cite  one  or  two  paf- 
fages,  both  from  Colonel  Titus  and  Lord 
Bolingbroke. 

It  is  neceflary  to  premife  that,  in  Colonel 
Titus's  performance,  it  is  the  dignified  ani- 
mation 


HUGH   BOYD.  9! 

mation  and  energy  of  the  language;  rather 
thai:  me  ftructure  of  the  fentences,  which 
Mr.  P>oyd  has  imitated.  Of  this,  the  reader 
e  enabled  to  judge,  from  the  manner 
in  T-vhich  the  dedication  to  Cromwell  com- 
mences. 

"  May  it  pleafe  your  Highnefs, 
"  How  I  have  fpent  fome  hours  of  the 
"  leifure  your  Highnefs  has  been  pleafed  to 
<e  give  me,  this  following  paper  will  give 
''your  Highnefs  an  account;  how  you  will 
*f  pleafe  to  interpret  it,  I  cannot  tell ;  but  I 
"  can  with  confidence  fay,  my  intention  in 
"  it  is,  to  procure  your  Highnefs  that  juftice 
"  nobody  yet  does  you,  and  to  let  the  peo- 
"  pie  fee  the  longer  they  defer  it,  the  greater 
"  injury  they  do  both  themfeJves  and  you.  To 
"  your  Highnefs  juftly  belongs  the  honour 
"  of  dying  for  the  people ;  and  it  cannot 
"  chufe  but  be  an  unfpeakable  confolation 
"  to  you  in  the  laft  moments  of  your  life, 
<f  to  confider,  with  how  much  benefit  to 
"  the  world  you  are  like  to  leave  it.  It  is 
"  then  only,  my  Lord,  the  titles  you  now 
"  ufurp  will  be  truly  yours.  You  will  then 
"  be  indeed  the  deliverer  of  your  country, 

"  and 


O.2  LIFE    OF 

"  and  free  it  from  a  bondage  little  inferior 
"  to  that  from  which  MOSES  delivered  his. 
"  — You  will  then  .be  that  true  reformer 
({  which  you  would  now  be  thought ;  re- 
"  ligion  (hall  be  then  reftored,  liberty  affert- 
<s  ed,  and  parliaments  have  thofe  privileges 
"  they  have  fought  for.  We  (hall  then 
.«'  hope  that  other  laws  will  have  place,  be- 
"  fides  thofe  of  the  fword,  and  that  juftice 
'"  fhall  be  otherwife  defined  than  the  will 
"  and  pleafure  of  the  ftrongeft ;  and  we  fhall 
"  then  hope/  men  will  keep  oaths  again, 
et  and  not  have  the  neceflity  of  being  falfe 
"  and  perfidious  to  preferve  themfelves,  and 
.*'  be  like  their  rulers.  All  this  we  hope 
"  from  your  Highnefs's  happy  expiration, 
"  who  are  the  true  father  of  your  country ; 
"  for  while  you  live,  we  can  call  nothing 
"  ours — :and  it  is  from  your  death  we  hope 
**  for  oiir  inheritances  : — Let  this  confidera- 
*'  tion  arm  and  fortify  your  Highnefs's  mind 
"  againft  the  fears  of  death,  and  the  terrors 
"  oi  your  evil  confcience,  that  the  good  you 
"  will  do  by  your  death,  will  fomewhat  ba- 
"  lance,  the  evils  of  your  life." — The  fame 
fpirit  is  kept  up  throughout  the  remainder 

of 


HUGH   BO  YD.  93 

of  the  dedication,  which  is  in  every  refpeft 
equally  admirable. 

After  the  dedication  follows  an  addrefs  to 
the  officers  and  foldiers  of  the  army,  in  which 
the  following  pafTage  is  deferving  of  notice 
in  this  inveftigation.  , 

"  Could  ever  England  have  thought  to  have 
"  feen  that  army,  that  was  never  mentioned 
"  without  the  titles  of  religious,  zealous, 
"  faithful,  courageous,  —  the  fence  of  her 
"  liberty  at  home, — the  terror  of  her  ene- 
ff  mies  abroad,  become  her  gaolers  ?  Not 
"  her  guard,  but  her  oppreflbrs  ?  Not  her 
"  foldiers,  but  a  tyrant's  executioners,  draw- 
"  ing  to  blocks  and  gibbets  all  that  dare  be 
"  honefter  than  themfelves  ?  This  you  do, 
"  and  this  you  are ;  nor  can  you  ever  re- 
"  deem  your  own  honour,  the  truft  and 
"  love  of  your  country,  the  eflimation  pf 
"  brave  men,  or  the  prayers  of  good,  if  you 
"  let  not  fpeedily  the  world  fee  you  have 
"  been  deceived  ;  which  they  will  then  only 
"  believe,  when  they  fee  your  vengeance  on 
"  the  faithlefs  head  that  did  it.  This,  if  you 
"  defer  too  long  to  do,  you  will  find  too 
"  late  to  attempt ;  and  your  repentance  will 

"  neither 


{J4  LIFE   OF 

ct  neither  vindicate  you,  nor  help  us.  To 
"  let  you  fee  you  may  do  this  as  a  lawful 
**  aftion,  and  to  perfuade  you  to  it  as  a 
"  glorious  one,  is  the  principal  intent  of 
"  this  following  paper ;  which,  whatever 
"  effects  it  hath  upon  you,  I  {hall  not  abfo- 
"  lutely  fail  of  my  ends ;  for  if  it  excites 
"  not  your  virtue  and  courage,  it  will  yet 
"  exprobrate  your  cowardice  and  bafenefs." 

The  whole  of  the  pamphlet  is  written  in 
the  fame  ardent  and  nervous  language:  but, 
there  is  one  fentence  in  particular,  fo  much 
in  the  general  ftyle  of  Junius,  that  I  think 
it  material  to  cite  it.  Talking  of  the  virtue 
of  murdering  a  tyrant,  and  enforcing  the 
neceflity  of  putting  Cromwell  to  death,  he 
fays — '•'  This  firebrand,  I  would  have  any 
'*  way  extinguifhed ;  this  ulcer,  I  would 
"  have  had  any  hand  to  lance  ;  and  I  can- 
"  not  doubt  but  God  will  fuddenly  fan£lify 
ft  fome  hand  to  do  it,  and  bring  down  that 
"  bloody  and  deceitful  man,  who  lives  not 
"  only  to  the  mifery,  but  the  infamy  of  our 
"  nation." 

Throughout  the  whole  of  thefe  pafTages, 
the  fpirit  of  Junius  may  be  traced:  but 

in 


HUGH  BOYD.  95 

in  the  following  extracts  from  the  aforefaid 
letters  of  Lord  Bolingbroke,  we  (hall  im- 
mediately perceive  the  form  and  type  of 
yunius's  compofition. 

The  Dedication  to  Lord  Oxford  con- 
tains fome  ftriking  paffages  in  which  the 
critical  pbifiognomift  will  obferve  the  fea- 
tures of  Junius.  The  dignified  air  and 
manner  with  which  it  begins,  merits  peculi- 
ar notice. 

"  My  Lord/' 

"  Of  the  whole  legion  once  in  your  pay, 
"  perhaps  not  one  writer  continues  in  your 
"  fervice ;  as  they  followed  you  for  the 
"  loaves  and  fifhes  only,  their  zeal  failed 
"  with  their  appointments,  and  they  found 
•"  it  neceflary  to  take  up  fome  other  trade." 

"  But  though,  like  them,  my  Lord,  I  at- 
"  tended  your  meridian,  I  Jhatl  not  like  them 
"  forfake  you  at  your  decline  /  on  the  con- 
"  trary,  I  am  ftill  as  much  at  your  devotion 
"  as  ever,  and  it  is  notorious,  you  have 
"  now  as  much  to  beftow  as  I  expected 
"  then. 

"  As  therefore  I  make  my  approach  with 
'*  the  fame  fincerity,  I  depend  on  the  fame 

"  reception 


g6  LIFE  OF 

"reception;  more  efpecially  when  I  far- 
"  ther  aflure  you,  that  if  I  happen  to  be 
"  the  longeft  liver,  I  will  be  as  juft  to  your 
"  memory,  as  I  have  been  to  your  admini- 
"  ftration." 

In  another  paragraph  he  proceeds  to  fay, 
• — "  The  old  jingle  of  honor es  mutant  mores, 
ff  you  have  the  glory,  my  Lord,  to  be  an  il- 
"  luftrious  exception  to  ;  however  enlarged 
"  with  ftyle  and  titles,  you  continue  to  be 
"  within  the  very  fame ;  and  thereby  (hew 
"  the  eminent  infignificancy  of  fuch  vani- 
"  ties. 

"  That  you  condefcended  to  accept  of  them, 
"  loilt  ever  tofome  be  matter  of  wonder;  that 
"you  condefcended  to  folicit  them  will  never 
*'  perhaps  be  believed.  Why  mould  a  man 
"  who  defpifed  the  eflence,  be  fond  of  the 
"  name  ?  And  that  you  always  had  the 
"  magnanimity  to  be  above  opinion,  is  ma- 
"  nifeft  by  every  action  of  your  life. 

"  But  what  labyrinth  is  there  fo  intri- 
"  cate,  that  if  you  follow  the  thread,  may 
"  not  be  explored  ?  A  peerage  was  the 
"  only  means,  a  quietus  was  the  end :  you 
"  had  performed  your  voyage,  your  bark 

"was 


HUGH    BOYD.  97 

"  was  crazy,  the  ftorm  was  up,  and  the 
"  firft  port  welcome.  While  the  helm  was 
"  worth  holding,  you  held  it;  when  only  an 
"  incumbrance,  you  refigned  it ;  equally 
"  pleafed  with  your  own  efcape,  that  your 
"  enemies  fucceeded  to  the  danger,  and 
"  that  your  own  crew  continued  to  navi- 
'•'  gate  the  veffel  as  before." 

In  the  preface  to  the  letters,  the  follow- 
ing pafTage  is  obfervable.  "  if  ever  a  teft 
<f  for  the  trial  of  fpirits  can  be  necefTary,  it 
'•  is  now;  if  ever  thofe  of  liberty  and  fac- 
"  tton  ought  to  be  diftinguifhed  from  each 
"  other,  it  is  now;  if  ever  it  is  incumbent 
"  on  the  people  to  know  what  truth  is,  and 
(f  to  follow  it,  it  is  now. 
;  "  Hitherto,  perhaps,  liberty  like  oil  hath 
s;  only  covered  the  furface,  while  the  vine- 
<:  gar  of  faction  hath  corroded  the  confti- 
f<  tution  underneath,  though  good  hath  re- 
"  fulted  from  both;  for  even  faftion  muft 
"  be  at'  fir  ft  popular,  and  popularity  can- 
"  not  be  acquired  without  the  evidence  of 
"  fome  good  deeds,  which  like  Abraham's 
(S  faith,  may  hold  the  place  of  righteouf- 
<f  nefs. 

VOL.  i.  f  "There 


0,8  1IFE  OF 

"  There  is  a  time,  when  factions  by  the 
"vehemence  of  their  own  fermentation, 
"  flun  and  difable  one  another ;  and  this  is 
"  the  time  when  plain  fenfe,  and  downright 
*'•"  honefty,  have  the  only  chance  to  get 
Si  uppermoft,  and  introduce  reformation. 

"  Perhaps  that  time  is  now ;  perhaps 
**  party  leaders  of  all  kinds  are  equally  in 
"  difgrace ;  and  the  publick  may  be  grown 
*'  wife  enough  to  judge  of  the  tree  by  its 
"  fruits/'  *********  Let  but  one  great, 
"  brave,  difinterefted,  aclive  man  arife,  and 
*•"  he  will  be  received,  followed  and  almoft 
"  adored  as  the  guardian  genius  of  thefe 
•'*  kingdoms.  Without  a  foundation  of  fo- 
"  lid  virtue  and  publick  fpirit,  the  nobleft 
t:  accomplifhments  lofe  their  importance; 
"  with  it  common  fenfe  grows  venerable, 
"  and  the  dove  triumphs  over  the  ferpent." 

Many  paiTages  iimilar  to  thefe  might  be 
cited  both  from  the  letters  on  the  Hiftory 
of  England,  and  from  thofe  of  Caleb  UAr^ 
vers;  but,  I  truft,  I  have  fufficiently  illuf- 
trated  and  confirmed  my  proportion, — that 
both  the  ftyle  of  Junius,  and  that  of  Mr. 
Boyd's  political  writings  now  publimed, 

were 


HUGH  BOTD.  99 

were  formed  in  the  mould  of  thefe  letters  of 
Bolingbroke's,  and  that  they  have  imbibed 
the  fpirit  of  Colonel  Titus's  produ6Hon. 
And  taking  this  along  with  the  facT  already 
dated,  that  Mr.  Boyd  had  fo  much  fa- 
miliarized his  mind  to  the  writings  of  thofe 
authors  that  he  had  almoft  the  whole  of 
them  by  heart;  and  remembering  at  the 
fame  time  that  he  is  the  only  writer  hither- 
to known,  who  at  once  refemb!es  Boling- 
broke,  Colonel  Titus,  and  Junius, —  the 
fair  and  natural  prefumption  is,  that  Mr. 
Boyd  was  in  reality  the  author  of  Junius. 

But  it  may  be  contended,  that  Boyd  was 
only  an  induftrious  imitator  of  thofe  wri- 
ters ;  and  that  though  Junius  copied  Bo- 
lingbroke,  it  does  not  follow,  becaufe  Boyd's 
ftyle  refembles  theirs,  that  he  therefore  was 
Junius'. — for  another  perfon  might  have 
admired  Bolingbroke's  letters  as  much  as 
Boyd  did,  and  have  thought  proper  to 
model  his  ftyle  by  them.  To  this,  I  an- 
fwer,  that  to  imitate  the  ftyle  of  a  great 
writer  fuccefsfully,  that  is,  both  in  matter 
and  language,  requires  riot  9nly  a  genius 
nearly  equal  to  the  original,  but  alfo  much 
time  and  labour.  Now,  though  I  think 
2  Mr. 


100  LIFE   OF 

Mr.  Boyd's  genius  was  equal  to  any  literary 
undertaking  of  this  nature,  however  ardu- 
ous, yet  the  facl  is,  that  the  hurry  and  con- 
fufion  in  which  the  letters  of  the  Freeholder, 
in  particular,  were  written,  precluded  the 
poffibility  of  any  fludy  or  labour  in  the 
compofition  of  them:  and  in  truth  they 
carry  the  flrongefl  internal  evidence  along 
with  them,  both  that  the  author  muft  have 
been  habituated  to  the  flyle  in  which  he 
writes,  and  that  he  muft  have  fent  them  to 
the  prefs,  as  he  fays  himfelf,  without  "  cor- 
<(  reclion  or  even  revifal*." — As  to  the  objec- 
tion, that  another  perfon  might  have  imitated 
Bolingbroke,  as  well  as  Boyd,  it  is  plaunble, 
enough,  but  .certainly  of  no  weight  in  this 
difcufiion,  unlefs  the  perfon  could  be  named, 
and  his  avowed  writings  produced.  I  am 
therefore  authorized  to  conclude,  that  when 
Mr.  Boyd  published  the  Freeholder,  he  was 
an  experienced  writer,  who  had  long  be- 
fore that  time  formed  his  ftyle  from  the 
political  letters  of  Bolingbroke;  and  that 
Junius  is  the  only  writer  befides,  who  has 
made  thofe  letters  his  model. 

*  See  the  Advertisement  to  the  Reader  prefixed  to  the 
Fretbolder. 

Thus 


HUGH    BOYD.  101 


Thus  I  have  eftablifhed  the  truth  of 
fafts,  which  may  be  confidered  as  eflential 
preliminaries  in  this  inveftigation  ;  namely, 
that  Mr.  Boyd's  talents  were  fully  Compe- 
tent to  the  faTk  of  writing  the  letters  ofjunius, 
and  that  his  avowed  political  writings  bear, 
in  every  refpecV  fo-  obvious  a  fimilitude 
to  thofe  letters,  that  we  mu'ft  prefume  they 
were  written  by  the  fame  hand. 

But  as  it  has  been  attempted  to  run  down 
Mr.  Boyd's  abilities  ;  as  the  publick  have 
been  repeatedly  told  that  (I  have  over-rated 
them;  and  as  I  have  been  called  upon  to 
produce  the  teiKmonies  of  more  competent 
and  lefs  partial  judges  than  myfelf,  in  fup- 
port  of  my  opinion,  —  I  am  defirous  that 
my/r/2  faff,  that  he  was  qualified  to  have 
written  the  letters  of  Junius,  mould  not 
reft  wholly,  even  upon  the  ftrong  in- 
ternal evidence  which  I  have  adduced  to 
prove  it.  For,  I  am  perfectly  well  aware, 
that  this  kind  of  evidence,  even  upon  a  point 
like  this,  where  it  is  undoubtedly  the  mofl 
unexceptionable  that  can  be  given,  does  not 
always  enforce  conviclion,  unlefs  it  be  fup- 
ported  by  collateral  aid. 

Before  it  can  be  accurately  determined 

whether 


1O2  HFE   Or 

whether  Mr.  Boyd's  capacity  was  equal  to 
the  tafk  of  competing  the  letters  of  Juniw, 
it  is  neceffary  to  examine  the  merits  of  thofe 
letters,  and  to  afcertain,  what  in,jreality  were 
the  qualifications  requifite  for  the  author  of 
them  to  have  poflelfed. 

The  fame  of  Junius's  letters  has  now  out- 
lived the  memory  of  the  particular  occur- 
rences, which  gave  them  birth.  The  in- 
tereft  in  thern  is  no  longer  kept  up  by  the 
effervefcence  of  party  zeal,  or  the  enthufiafra, 
of  publick  liberty  :  for  the  parties  they 
praifed,  or  cenfured,  are  now  no  more,  and 
the  genuine  fpirit  of  liberty,  from  a  variety 
of  caufes,  has  become  flat  and  infipid.  Yet 
are  thofe  letters  ftill  read  by  all  defcriptions 
of  people  throughout  the  country  ;— they 
are  confidered  merely  as,  literary  compoli- 
tions,  and  as  fuch  they  are  univerfally  ad- 
mired. Their  fame,  therefore,  mult  in  a 
great  meaiure  depend  on  their  own  excel- 
lence; and  it  behoves  us  to  inquire  what 
that  excellence  qpnfifts  in. 

I  mail  not,  I  truft,  be  underftoqd  as  de- 
tracting from  the  true  merit  ofjumus,  when 
I  apply  to  his  writings  in  general,  what  was 
faid  of  them  by  Mr.  Horne  Tooke^— mate- 

riem 


HUGH   BOYD.  K>3 

riem  faperabat  opus.  It  is  the  exquifite 
beauty  of  his  workmanfhip,  rather  than  the 
value  of  his  materials,  that  deferves  the  ap- 
plaufe  of  mankind.  His  letters  undoubtedly 
abound  with  ftriking  thoughts,  juft  obferva- 
tions,  noble  fentiments,  and  comprehenfive 
views ;  but  they  no  where  difplay  much 
folidity  of  argument,  or  depth  of  reflection  : 
on  the  contrary,  his  reafoning,  though 
often  ingenious,  is  more  fpecious  than 
conclufive;  and  his  remarks,  though  often 
accurate,  are  often  more  dazzling  thari 
profound.  His  chief  excellencies  then  will 
be  found  to  confift,  in  the  clearnefs  of  his 
conceptions,  in  the  precifion  with  which 
every  faft  is  ftated,  and  idea  expreffed,  in 
the  nervous  clofenefs  and  captivating  ele- 
gance of  his  ftyle,  in  the  Attic  fpirit  and 
poignancy  of  his  fatire,  in  the  admirable  fe- 
licity of  his  illuftrations,  and  in  the  rich,  but 
lively  and  chafte  colouring  with  which  every 
thin?  is  touched  and  adorned  *. 

if 

*  Of  Juntas  it  may  be  truly  fa'ul,  "  Nullutn  quod  tttegit 
"  non  arnavit."  Nor  (hall  I  be  deterred  from  beflowing 
this  juft  praife  on  his  ftyle,  on  account  of  the  trivial  errors 
vhich  Mr.  Chalmers  has  pointed  out,  and  ceniured.  "  Such 
"  violations  of  rules  merely pofiiivt  become  the  comprehea- 

"  five 


104 

If  .this  be  admitted  to  be  a  juft  character 
of  Juniuss  writings,  it  follows  as  a  necefc 
fary  confequence,  that  he  who  coinpofed 
them,  required  not  to  have  been  gifted,  with 
any  other  endowments,  than  an  enlarged, 
vigorous,  and  fubtle  understanding,  a  (juick 
apprehenfion,  ^fertile  imagination,  a  very 
considerable  knowledge  of  claifical  learning 
and  civil  hiftory,  a  general  acquaintance 
with  the  moral  fciences,  particularly  :  that 
of  jurifprudence,  .and  of"  the  cqnftitution 
and  laws  of  England,  a  thorough  infight  in- 
to Jbuman  life  and  manpers,  a  perfect  inti- 
macy with  party  politicks,  as  well  as  with 
the  private  and  publick  hiftories.  of  eminent 
men,  and  diftinguifhed  families,  a,nd  above 
all,  a  ftrong  and  retentive  memory,  ever 
ready  to  call  up  in  the, mind  all  the  informa- 
tion it  had  received,  a  correcl;  judgment  to 
employ  it  fuccefisfvilly.  and  a  refined  taile  to 
polifh  and  beautify  the  whole.  Every  compe- 
tent judge  whoperfeffi/y  knew  Mr.  Bqyd,  wijl, 
I  am  fure,  allow,  that  he  pofleffed  all  thofe 
endowrments  in  a  very  eminent  degree.  Bu.t 
in  order,  Xo  convince  the  publick,  that  my 

opinion  of  his  abilities  is  not  fmgular,  I  beg 

* 

"  five  genius  of  Boydt  and  fuch  cenfures  are  fuitable  to  the 
'*'  minute  and  flender  criticilrn  of  Chalmers.  •, 

leave 


HUGH   BOYD.  105 

leave  to  cite  the  following  paragraph  of  a 
note,  which  I  received  from  the  celebrated 
Mr.  GRATTAN,  in  the  courfe  of  lafl  fum- 
mer.  "  Mr.  Boyd's  underftanding,"  fays 
he,  "  was  very  confiderable,  his  memory 
"  aftonifhing,  and  his  literary  powers  very 
"  great ;  but,  •  whether  he  thought  proper  to 
"give  them  the  fly le  and  caft  of/^wniaji 
"  compofition,  is  what  Mr.  Grattan  cannot 
<(  poffibly  undertake  to  fay.  Mr.  Grattan 
"  wifhes  every  fuccefs  to  Mr.  CAMPBELL'S 
"  work,  as  it  is  the  account  of  a  perfon 
"  (whether  Junius  or  not)  whofe  life  and 
"  talents  were  an  ornament  to  letters,  and 
((  whofe  death  an  irretrievable  lofs." 
May  \6th,  1799. 

The  opinion  entertained  of  Mr.  Boyd's 
talents,  as  well  as  of  the  letters  of  the  Free- 
holder, by  his  friends  in  Ireland,  may  be 
collected  from  the  following  extract  of  an 
addrefs  to  the  freeholders  of  the  county  of 
Antrim,  publiihed  in  the  Belfaft  News  Let- 
ter, fome  years  after  he  had  gone  to  India. 

"  I  conclude,  my  countrymen,  in  the 
if  words  of  a  man"  (Mr.  Boyd)  "  whofe 
"  fervices  to  you  CAN  NEVER  BE  SUFFI- 

"  CIENTLY 


1O6  LIFE    OF 

9e  CIENTLY  PRAISED: — Who  pointed  out 

"  IN  LANGUAGE  WHICH  WILL  BE  RE- 
*'  MEMBERED  WHILE  THERE  IS  GRATI- 
'*  TUDE  LEFT  IN  HIS  NATIVE  COUNTRY, 

**  the  glorious  moment  which  reftored  you 
"  to  your  original  rights.  In  a  period  lefs 
€t  ominous  to  freedom  than  the  prefent,  he 
"  left  this  country  when  he  thought  he  could 
"  no  longer  ferve  it.  He  looked  for  an- 
"  other,  and  became  a  citizen  of  the  world. 
**  If  afked  where  that  lay  ?  He  might,  like 
"  Anaxagoras,  have  pointed  to  the  heavens. 
'*  Had  he  journeyed  to  the  weft  inftead  of 
"  the  eaft,  he  might  there  have  found  a 
*•'  region  more  congenial  to  his  noble  mind. 
(t  Whatever  perils  he  has  encountered, — 
"  whatever  hardfhips  he  has  fuffered, — and 
"  I  fear  difappointment  and  difafter  have 
"  been  his  lot, — could  he  now  contemplate 
'1  through  the  opaque  veil  of  Afiatick  def- 
w  potifm,  the  fituation  of  his  native  country; 
"  even  at  this  diftance  he  would  addrefs  a 
ts  prayer  to  the  God  who  rules  the  univerfe, 
**  for  the  confervation  of  its  liberties." 

Almoft  all  the  literary  friends  that  Mr. 
Boyd  had  in  England,  are  now  dead;  but 

it 


HUGH    BOYD.  1O7 

it  is  a  pofitive  fact,   the  truth  of  which,  if 
called  in  queftion,.  I  can  fatisfaclorily  prove, 
that  Mr.  Edmund  Burke,  and  his  brother  Mr. 
Richard  B'irke,   that  Sir  Jofhua  Reynolds, 
Mr. Wilkes,  Doclor  Armftrong,  Mr.  Serjeant 
Adair,  Mr.  Lauchlin  Macleane,  Mr.  David 
Garrick,  and  Doctor  Goldfmith,  all  entertain- 
ed the  very  higheft  opinion  of  the  uncommon 
powers  of  Mr.  Boyd's  mind.     And  the  late 
Mr.  John  Stuart,  of  Hampftead,  of  whom 
I  have  already  given  a  particular  account, 
has  frequently  declared  to  me,  "  that  Boyd 
"  poflefled  a  clearer  underftanding,  a  more 
**  fertile  imagination,  and  a  more  ready  and 
"  refined  wit,  than  any  other  man  he  ever 
"  knew  : — that  he  thought  his  talents  fupc- 
"  rior  to  the  abilities  difplayed  in  the  letters 
'«  of  yunius ;  but  that  he  could  eafily  be- 
"  lieve  him  to  have  been  the  author  of  thofe 
"  letters,    if  he    were    once    aflured,    that 
"  Woodfall  was  not  indemnified  againft  the 
"  pecuniary  penalties,  which  he  was  liable 
11  to  incur  as  the  publisher  of  them  * :  for," 

faid 

*  This  obje£Hon  is  now  completely  done  away,  by  the 
declaration  which  Mr.William  Woodfall  recently  made  in 

the 
1 


1O8  LIFE    Of 

faid  Mr.  Stuart,  "  if  an  indemnity  of  that 
"  kind  had  been  required,  you  know  our 
"  friend  Boyd  had  it  not  to  offer." 

With  Mr.  Edmund  Burke,  Mr.  Boyd 
was  long  in  habits  tof  the  clofeft  intimacy. 
He  was  firft  introduced  to  him  by  then- 
common  friend  the  late  Governor  PATTER- 
SON, of  the  Ifland  of  St.  John's.  Mr. 
Burke  admired  him  fo  much  *  upon  their 
firfl  acquaintance,  that.  he.  immediately,  in- 
vjted;him  to.  Beaconsfield,  where  he  palled 
fome'  time,  and  whither  afterwards  he  often 
went.  Mr.  Burke,  his  brother.  Richard, 
and  his  coufm  William  Burke,  alfo  vifited 
frequently  at  Mr.  Boyd's  houfe.  But  the 
great  confidence  that  Edmund  Burke  placed 
in  Boyd's  political  fagacity  and  talents,  is 
beft  proved  by  the  following  faft,  which  came 
within  my  own  knowledge.  From  the  year 
1788  till  1793,  both  Edmund  Burke  and  his 
fpn  kept  up  a  conftant  correfpondence  with 

-Boyd,  although  during  that  time  he  was  at 

.1 

tae  publick  papers,  by  the  authority  of  his  brother  Mr. 
H.  S.  Woodfall ; — namely,  "  that  the  printer  of  the  Pub- 
"  lick  .Advertifer  never  ajked  for  any  indemnity,  nor  was  any 


HUGH  "BO YD.  10Q 

16  great  a  diflance  from  them  *.  Some  of 
Mr.  Burke's  letters  I  have  feen.  The  fub- 
je£t  of  them  was  the  French  Revolution  ; 
and  they  were  written  in  his  beft  ftyle,  and 
with  .that  fpirit  of  philofophy  which  per- 
vades all  his  writings.  He  alfo  wrote  to  him 
on  the  affairs  of  India;  but-thefe  letters, 
for  whatever  reafon,  Boyd  thought  proper 
to  deftroy.  The  letters  which  he  received 
from  young  Burke  were  chiefly  on  the  af- 
fairs of  Ireland,  particularly  as  they  related 
to  the  emancipation  of  the  Catholicks  :  and 
on  all  thofe  fubjefts  Boyd,  with  a  few 
inconfiderable  exceptions,  agreed  with  the 
Burkes. 

-  The  only  one  of  Mr.  Boyd's  old  and  very 
intimate  literary  friends,  befides  Mr.  Grat- 
tan,  who  is  ftill  living,  is  the  learned  Mr. 
FRANCIS  HARGRAVE;  and  he  has  told 
me,  "that  he  always  thought  Mr.  Boyd's 
"  abilities  were  of  the  very  firfl  rate,  and 
"  that  he  held  his  literary  endowments  in  the 
"  higheft  eftimation." 

Mr.  Boyd  was  likewife  acquainted  with 
Mr.  Richard  B.  Sheridan.     He  ufed  fome- 

*  Mr.  Boyd  was  then  at  Madras.     He  went  to  India 
in  1781. 

times 


HO  LIFE    OF 

times  to  meet  him  at  Mr.  STR AFFORD 
CANNING'S,  and  at  a  club  at  the  Globe 
Tavern  in  Fleet-ftreet  :  and  I  have  reafon 
to  believe  that  Mr.  Sheridan  conceived  a 
high  opinion  of  his  wit  and  talents.  In 
fhort,  every  perfon  of  tafle  and  judgment 
who  knew  Mr.  Boyd,  confidered  him  as  a 
very  extraordinary  man,  and  as  one  endowed 
with  the  nioft  brilliant  parts  and  extenfive 
acquirements. 

Yet,  it  may  be  faid,  that  Mr.  Boyd  was 
too  young  to  have  been  the  author  of  Ju- 
nius's  letters ;  for,  that  at  the  age  of  twenty 
three  *,  he  cannot  be  fuppofed  to  have 
gained  the  political  experience,  and  the 
knowledge  of  the  world,  which  they  every 
where  difplay.  This  objection  is  more 
plaufible  than  folid ;  and  is  moreover  abun- 
dantly refuted  by  fome  eminent  examples 
of  the  like  prematurity  of  mind. 

The  name  of  Congreve  will  occur  to 
every  reader  acquainted  with  literary  hifto- 
ry,  as  an  inftance  of  one  who  had  attained 

*  This  was  Mr,  Boyd's  age,  when  the  letters  oijunmt 
commenced. 


at 


HUGH    BOYD.  HI 

at  a  very  early  age  an  extenfive  knowledge 
of  life  and  manners.  This  extraordinary 
man  had  written  his  three  beft  comedies, 
and  the  tragedy  of  the  Mourning  Brid€,  be- 
fore he  had  pafled  his  twenty-fifth  year. 
ts  Among  all  the  efforts  ~  ~oxly  genius," 
fays  Doftor  Johnfon,  "  >rary  hif- 

"  tory  records,  I  doubt  wnetner  any  one 
"  can  be  produced,  that  more  furpafles  the 
"  common  limits  of  nature  than  the  plays 
"  of  Congreve." — But,  Congreve  was  not  a 
politician.      In  the  political  world,   how- 
ever, there  are  examples  equally  ftriking. 
The  two  greateft  orators  of  the  prefent  day, 
Mr.  Fox,  and  Mr.  PITT,  came  into  parlia- 
ment at  the  age  of    twenty   two  t :     and 
the  friends  of  thefe  gentlemen  will  allow, 
that  at  no  period  of  their  political    lives, 
have  they  ever  exhibited  ftronger  proofs  of 
fagacity,    knowledge,   and   eloquence   than 
when  they   firft   commenced   their  career. 
Mr.  Fox,  before  he  reached    his  twenty- 
fixth  year,  was  the  leader  of  a   party  the 

t  It  has  indeed  been  faid  that  Mr.  Fox  was  not  of  age 
when  he  procured  a  feat  in  parliament. 

moft 


112  LIFE    OF 

moft  illuflrious  for  talents  of  every  kind, 
that  was  ever  known  in  England;  and  the 
wonderful  ability  and  addrefs  with  which 
he  managed  that  party,  bcfl  (hews  how 
deeply  he  had  fearched  into  the  human 
heart,  hov  ' '  611  y  he  underflood  the 
motives,  paflions,  and  weaknefles  of  men, 
and  how  attentively  he  had  obferved  the 
habits  and  praclices  of  the  world.  Mr. 
PITT  formed  a  party  at  the  fcme  age, 
which  he  has  held  together  ever  fince ; 
while  he  attended  to  the  various  interefts, 
and  conducted  the  affairs  of  the  Britifh 
empire. 

It  is  not  my  intention  to  inftitute  any 
comparifon  between  the  talents  of  thefe 
great  men,  and  thofe  of  JuniUs.  I  only 
mention  their  early  attainments,  in  order 
to  (hew  that  very  young  men,  may  acl;  or 
write  like  very  experienced  politicians  ;— 
for,  the  Scripture  faith  truly  —  "  that  wif- 
"  dom  is  the  grey  hair  unto  men." 

Of  Mr.  Boyd's  great  proficiency  at 
fchool,  I  have  already  given  an  account: 
And  his  early  knowledge  of  mankind,,  and 
of  political  affairs,  will  appear  the  lefs  fur- 

prifmg, 


HUGH   BOYD. 

prifing,  when  it  is  known  that  his  father  had 
made  a  pracliee  of  bringing  him  into  compa- 
ny at  eight  years  old ;  that  he  encouraged  by 
every  means  in  his  power,  his  fon's  propen- 
fity  to  mix  with  fociety,  and  to  liften  to 
the  converfation  and  obferve  the  manners  of 
men;  and  that  feeing  his  turn  for  politicks, 
he  beftowed  the  greater!  pains  in  inftilling 
into  his  youthful  mind  the  genuine  princi- 
ples of  freedom,  in  inflrucling  him  in  the 
fcience  of  civil  government,  .  and  in  im- 
preffing  him  with  juft  notions  of  the  ex- 
cellence of  the  Britifh  conftitution.  How 
well  his  father  was  qualified  to  do  all  this, 
has  been  (hewn,  upon  the  teftimony  of 
Dean  Swift :  and  when  we  couple  fuch 
circumflahces  -with  the,  facl,  that  almoft 
every  man,  in,  Dublin,  diftinguimed  either 
for  his  rank  or  talents,  ufed  to  vifit  at  Mr. 
Macauley's  houfe,—!  truft  the  caufes  of  the- 
prematurity  of  Mr.  Boyd's  mind,,  will  ap- 
pear fufficiently  explained. 

Upon  the  whole,  combining  the.  concur- 
rent opinions  of  the  diftinguifhed  charac- 
ters who  have  been: named,  as  to  Mr.  Boyd's 
intellectual  powers  and  literary  .  q&alifica- 

VOL.  i.  h  lions, 


LIFE  OF 

tions,  With  the  ftrong  internal  evidence  in 
proof  of  them,  which  the  fele&ions  I  have 
made  from"  his  political  writings  afford,  it 
muft,  upon  every  principle  of  fair  reafoning 
be  concluded,  that  he  was  a  man  of  genius  and 
knowledge,  —  of  confiderable  fagacity  and 
great  acutenefs ; — and  that  he  was  an  able 
politician,  as  well  as  a  mafterly  and  elegant 
writer :  and,  therefore,  according  to  my 
idea  of  the  qualities  that  conftitute  the  ex- 
cellence of  Junius's  letters,  which  the  beft 
judges  will,  I  believe,  admit  to  be  corre6la 
I  am  amply  juflified  in  laying  it  down  as  an 
indubitable  truth,  that  Mr.  Boyd's  talents 
were  fully  adequate  to  the  tafk  of  writing 
thofe  celebrated  epiftles. 

But,  it  may  flill  be  contended,  that 
though  Mr.  Boyd  was  gifted  with  great  abi- 
lities, he  did  not  pofiefs  fufficient  means  of 
information  with  refpeft  to  the  interior  po- 
liticks of  the  cabinet,  and  the  private  lives 
of  men  in  power,  to  have  written  the  let- 
ters of  Junius;  —  for,  that  the  author  of 
thofe  productions  muft  have  been  intimate- 
ly connected  with  government,  as  well  as  in 
the  conftant  habit  of  aflfociating  with  the 
2  firfl 


HUGH   BOYD.  115 

firft  circles  of  rank  and  fafhion.  To  this  I 
anfwer, — That  a  ftricl:  fcrutiny  of  thofe  letters 
will  convince  every  man  of  found  fenfe,  that 
they  contain  no  political  information  what- 
ever, but  fuch,  as  a  perfon  of  Mr.  Boyd's  pe- 
netration and  tenacious  memory  might  very 
eafily  have  acquired,  from  the  converfation 
of  thofe  very  gentlemen,  with  whom,  as  it 
has  been  dated,  he  lived  on  terms  of  famili- 
arity and  friendfhip.  And  to  thofe  who  im- 
agine that  the  writer  of  Junius's  letters 
mufl  of  neceflity  have  mixed  much  with 
people  of  rank  and  fafhion,  I  reply,  that  it 
is  a  facl;  weil  known  to  Mr.  Boyd's  relations, 
that  not  only  during  the  time  of  Junius, 
but  throughout  his  whole  life,  he  kept  com- 
pany with  the  higheft  orders  of  fociety,  and 
was  familiarly  acquainted  with  feveral  fami- 
lies of  diftinftion.  It  is  alfo  an  equally  well 
authenticated  facl;,  that  when  Junius  was 
making  fo  much  noife  in  the  world,  Boyd 
made  a  conftant  practice  of  attending  the 
levees  and  drawing-rooms  at  St.  James's. 
He  went  to  them  as  a  man  of  fafhion ;  and 
with  his  inquifitive  mind,  insinuating  ad- 
drefs,  prompt  apprehenfion.  and  wonderful 
h  2  memory. 


Il6  LIFE   OF 

memory,  we  cannot  doubt  that  he  collected 
a  vaft  deal  of  curious  information,  both  of 
a  publickand  private  nature.  In  truth,  no 
man  knew  the  politicks  of  the  day  better 
than  Mr.  Boyd ;  and  there  was  not  a  fa- 
mily of  any  confequence,  either  in  Great 
Britain  or  Ireland,  with  whofe  hiltory  he 
was  not  thoroughly  acquainted. 

I  fhall,  however,  endeavour  more  parti- 
cularly to  point  out  the  channels  through 
which  he  received  his  political  information. 
Thofe  who  are  beft  acquainted  with  the 
hiftory  of  the  Duke  of  Grafton's  adminiftra- 
tion,  know  perfectly  well,  how  very  pofli- 
ble  it  was,  in  the  time  of  Junius,  to  obtain 
intelligence  of  what  paffed  in  the  cabinet, 
without  being  any  way  connected  with  it ; 
and  it  is  well  known  that  few  men  had  more 
early  notice  of  what  pafled  there  than  Mr.; 
Wilkes,  with  whom  Boyd  conftantly  affo- 
ciated.  But  he  had  yet  another  channel  of 
information,  more  fure  at  leaft,  if  not  more 
direcl;,  than  this  one. 

The  late  Mr.  Lauchlin  Macleane,  who 
was  fecretary  to  Lord  Shelburne,  (now 
Marquis  of  Lanfdown)  when  his  Lordfhip 

was 


HUGH  BOYD.  117 

was  fecretary  of  ftate,  was  Mr.  Boyd's  par- 
ticular friend.  They  firft  became  known  to 
each  other  in  Dublin,  in  the  year  1764. 
On  Macleane's  return  from  America,  they 
met  in  London,  and  renewed  their  acquaint- 
ance. Boyd  then  got  very  intimate  with 
Harry  Madeline,  Lauchlin's  younger  bro- 
ther ;  and  he  took  a  warm  interefl  in  what- 
ever concerned  them  or  their  family. 
Both  the  Macleanes  were  men  of  abilities, 
but  Lauchlin  pofTeffed  an  uncommon  de- 
gree of  fagacity  and  penetration,  and  to  ufe 
the  words  of  Johnfon,  "  he  knew  the  mind 
"  of  man,  from  the  depth  of  ftratagem  to  the 
"  furface  of  affeftation."  During  the  time 
he  was  in  office,  Boyd  was  regularly  inform- 
ed of  all  the  fecret  tranfaftions  of  that  mon- 
grel adminiftration,  of  which  Lord  Shel- 
burne  was  then  a  member.  When  the 
Duke  of  Grafton  compelled  that  noble  Lord 
to  relinquim  his  place,  it  is  well  known  that 
Macleane  was  difmrfied  along  with  him.  A 
few  months  fubfequent  to  their  difmiffion, 

the  letters  of  Junius  commenced.     At  this 
i  •j 

period  Boyd  conftantly  aflbciated  with  the 
Macleanes.      With  Lauchlin  he  ufed  fre- 
quently 


11$      ,  LIFE    OF 

quently  to  dine ;  and  Harry  called  on  him  al- 
moft  every  day  to  communicate  the  political 
news,  which  he  and  his  brother  had  employ- 
ed their  moft  ftrenuous  induftry  to  coUecl;. 

From  his  old  friend  Mr.  G rattan  alfo, 
who  lived  in  London  in  the  time  of  Junius, 
he  may  be  fuppofed  to  have  received  much 
afliftance  in  obtaining  information  refpe6l- 
ing  fecret  politicks ;  and  during  the  years 
1769  and  1770,  while  Boyd  lived  in  Marl- 
borough-ftreet,  he  and  Mr.  Grattan  were 
perpetually  together. 

With  regard  to  the  affairs  of  Ireland,  he 
had  feveral  fources  of  intelligence ;  but  it 
was  chiefly  through  his  friend  Mr.  Flood  he 
received  his  earlieft  information. 

It  were  fuperfluous  to  ftate  any  thing  fur- 
ther on  this  part  of  the  inveftigation  :  for  it 
muft  be  evident  to  every  candid  mind,  that 
there  is  no  kind  of. knowledge  mjfunius's  let- 
ters, which  Mr.  Boyd  did  not  poffefs  ;  and 
that  Jie  was  in  faft  amply  qualified  in  every 
refpe6t,  to  have  been  the  author  of  fuch 
productions. 

There  are,  however,  one  or  two  things 
which  it  feems  requifite  to  account  for,  be- 
fore 


HUGH    BOYD.  lig 

fore  I  ftate  the  circumftances  in  proof  of 
Boyd  having  adually  written  the  letters  of 
Junius. 

It  has  been  afked,  what  could  have  in- 
duced the  author  of  Junius  to  conceal  his 
name,  after  the  fame  which  his  papers 
acquired,  was  firmly  eftablifhed  in  the  pub- 
lick  opinion,  and  after  the  animofity  of  thofe 
whom  he  attacked  may  be  fuppofed  to  have 
fubfided?  Nothing  certainly  is  more  ex- 
traordinary than  that  difpofition  of  mind, 
which  in  the  author  of  Junius  enabled  him 
to  Men  to  the  applaufe  of  his  admirers, 
and  to  the  cenfures  of  his  enemies,  with 
equal  indifference,  and  never  once  to  be 
betrayed  by  flattery,  or  thrown  off  his  guard 
by  provocation ;  to  keep  his  fecret  even  from 
her  to  whom  he  confided  every  thing  elfe;  fi- 
lently  to  fuffer  the  praifes  which  he  had  earned 
by  his  abilities,  induftry,  and  labour,  to  be 
beftowed  upon  others,  to  be  fatisfied  with 
the  felf-gratification  and  confctoufnefs  of 
having  gathered  thofe  laurels  which  he  daily 
faw  fo  many  great  men  willing  to  accept, 
and  finally  to  refufe  to  his  memory  that 
honour  which  an  admiring  world  was 

felicitous 


120  LIFE  or 

felicitous  to  beftow.  That  this  difpofition 
of  mind  belonged,  in  a  peculiar  manner,  to 
Mr.  Boyd,  thofe  who  thoroughly  knew  him, 
and  who  had  pried  into  the  deepeft  recefles 
of  his  heart,  will  not  hefitate  to  acknow- 
ledge. For,  in  truth,  few  men  united  fo 
much  ardour  of  mind,  with  fo  much  gentle- 
nefs  of  manners ;  fo  much  generofity  of 
heart,  with  fo  much  evennefs  of  temper ; 
fo  much  fecrecy  and  refolution,  with  fo 
much  franknefs  and  eafe;  fo  much  noble 
pride,  with  fo  little  idle  vanity;  and  fuch 
high  paffions,  with  a  command  over  them 
fo  entire,  that  fuperficial  obfervers  of  his 
habits  have  abfurdly  imagined  he  had  no 
pafiions  at  all.  What  his  motive  was  for 
carrying  his  fecret  with  him  to  the  grave,  it 
is  impofiible  to  determine,  and  therefore 
ufelefs  to  inquire ;  but  it  is  probable,  that 
having  once  found  it  neceffary,  in  order  to 
check  inquiries  concerning  Juniusy  to  tell 
the  world  that  he  was  the  fole  depojitory 
of  his  own  fecret,  and  that  it  Jliould  per'ijh 
-with  him,  he  deemed  it  improper  to  retracl 
his  declaration.  His  motive  for  not  avow- 
ing himfelf  before  he  left  England,  is  eafily 

explained. 


HUGH  BOYD.  121 

explained.  He  was  involved  in  the  great- 
eft  embarrafTments,  and  looked  for  aflift- 
ance  from  men  in  power,  who  he  knew 
would  not  only  withdraw  their  patronage, 
but  become  his  moft  inveterate  enemies,  if 
they  had  the  fmalleft  fufpicion  of  his  being 
the  writer  of  Junius^  letters  ;  while  on  the 
other  hand,  he  had  little  to  expect  from 
fuch  friends,  as  the  knowledge  of  the  faft 
might  poflibly  have  procured  him.  And 
after  he  went  to  India,  it  would  have  been 
fomething  more  than  imprudence  to  have 
avowed  he  was  Junius. 

Every  reader  will  recollect  that  yunius 
had  very  few  political  friends ;  for  he  at- 
tacked either  openly,  or  indirectly,  all  par- 
ties, but  the  Grenvilles.  Of  Lord  Chat- 
ham, indeed,  he  always  fpeaks  in  the  higheft 
terms,  to  fay  nothing  of  his  beautiful  pane- 
gyrick  on  him ;  but  there  are  fome  of  his 
Lordfhip's  meafures  and  opinions,  which  he 
unequivocally  objecls  to.  The  Rocking- 
ham  party  he  frequently  cenfures,  though 
jn  the  moft  refpe&ful  terms,  and  though  he 
praifes,  "  the  mild,  but  determined  integrity 
of  Lord  Rockingham."  But  Lord  Tem- 
ple, 


LIFE   OF 

pie  and  his  brother  Mr.  Grenville  he  never 
mentions,  except  in  the  warmeft  language 
of  approbation  :  and  it  is  a  pofitive  facl 
that  Mr.  Boyd  always  fpoke  of  them  in  a 
fimilar  manner,  perhaps,  from  an  expecta- 
tion of  being  patronized  by  Lord  Temple, 
as  Mr.  Almon  fuppofes*;  or  it  may  be 
from  a  conviclion  that  they  richly  merited 
the  applaufe  of  every  man  who  fought 
only  to  promote  the  true  interefts,  and  to 
uphold  the  legal  liberties,  of  England. 

With  regard  to  thofe  whofe  characters 
Junius  moft  feverely  attacks,  I  have  already 
{hewn  that  Mr.  Boyd  entertained  the  fame 
opinion  of  them ;  and  in  that  opinion  I  am 
firmly  perfuaded  he  was  confirmed  from  a 
fincere  belief,  (whether  juft  or  not  I  do  not 
pretend  to  determine),  that  it  was  founded 
in  the  flri&eft  veracity,  and  that  therefore 
he  conceived  he  was  doing  a  fignal  fervice 
to  his  country  by  expofing  their  private 
vices  together  with  their  publick  crimes  to 
the  contempt  and  indignation  of  every  ho- 
neft  heart.  He  knew  that  when  civil  focie* 

*  See  Mr.  AJmon's  fccond  Letter,  in  tfye  Appendix  to 
rhe  Life. 


HUGH   BQYD.  423 

ty  arrives  at  a  high  pitch  of  refinement,  the 
corruption  and  degeneracy  which  ever  ac- 
company its  progrefs,  render  general  fatire 
of  but  little  avail  ;  becaufe  men  whofe 
fenfes  are  dulled  by  luxury  and  venality 
cannot  be  touched  by  any  general  cen- 
fures  ;  fuch  correclives  however  ftrong 
they  do  not  feel ;  nothing  but  the  fight 
of  their  own  deformity  can  fhaiae  them 
into  righteoufnefs  *.  I  will  not  fay,  that 

Junius 

*  On  this  point  it  is  obferved  by  yunius,  in  his  reply  ta 
one  of  Sir  William  Draper's  letters,  "  that  mecfures,  ani. 
"  not  men,  is  the  common  cant  of  affefted  moderation;  a 
*'  bafe  counterfeit  language,  fabricated  by  knaves  and 
"  made  current  among  fools.  Such  gentle  cenfure  is  net 
«'  fitted  to  the  prefent  degenerate  ftate  of  foctety.  What 
"  does  it  avail  to  expofe  the  abfurd  contrivance  and  per- 
"  nicious  tendency  of  meafures,  if  the  man  wK6  advifej 
"  or  executes  them  be  fuffsred,  not  only  to  efcape  with 
"  impunity,  but  even  to  preferve  his  power,  and  infult  us 
"  with  the  favour  of  his  foyercign."  He  then  quotes  a 
letter  of  Mr.  Pope's  to  Doclor  Arbuthnot,  wherein  Pope, 
fays,  "  To  reform  and  not  to  chaftife,  1  am  afraid  is  im- 
"  poffible;  and  that  the  beft  precepts,  as  well  as  the  bcft 
"  laws,  would  prove  of  fraall  ufe,  if  there  were  no  exam- 
u  pies  to  enforce  them.  To  attack  vices  in  the  abftraft 
€<  without  touching  perfons,  may  be  fafe  fighting,  indeed, 
**  but  it  is  fighting  with  fliadows.  My  greateft  comfort 

"  and 


124  LIFE  OF 

jfunius  has  always  drawn  his  pi&ures  faith- 
fully, much  lefs  will  I  contend  that  they  are 
not  often  too  highly  coloured ;  but  I  am 
fully  fatisfied  that  he,  for  the  moft  part,  be- 
lieved them  to  be  juft  reprefentations  of  the 
originals.  I  know  that  he  is  miftaken  in 
fome  of  his  flatements,  and  I  think  fome 
of  his  afperities  and  farcafms  highly  blame- 
able  ;  but  I  am  neverthelefs  convinced  that 
his  intentions  were  always  pure,  and  that 
his  chief  motives  were,  a  truly  noble  zeal  in 
the  caufe  of  liberty,  and  a  generous  ambi- 
tion of  raifing  the  literary  reputation  of  his 
letters,  and  of  being  ranked,  under  the  fig- 
nature  he  adopted,  among  the  firft  political 
fatirifts,  of  any  age  or  nation. 

His  determined  and  unrelenting  hoftili- 
ty  to  the  Duke  of  Grafton,  has,  however, 
been  fuppofed  to  have  arifen  from  fome 
private  motive;  and  the  fuppofition  is  cer- 
tainly juftified  by  the  bitternefs  of  his  re- 
marks upon  his  Grace's  conduct.  But,  the 

"  and  encouragement  to  proceed  has  been  to  fee,  that 
"  thofe  who  have  no  fhame,  and  no  fear  of  any  thing  elfe, 
"  have  appeared  touched  by  my  fatires." 

motive 


HUGH   BOYD.  125 

motive  is  eafily  pointed  out.  I  have  al- 
ready noticed  the  friendfhip  that  fubfifted 
between  Mr.  Boyd  and  the  Macleanes,  and 
the  warm  intereft  he  took  in  their  affairs. 
Now,  it  is  a  facl,  that  after  Mr.  Lauchlin  Mac- 
leane  was  difmiffed,  by  the  Duke  of  Grafton, 
from  the  office  of  under  fecretary  of  (late, 
he  conceived  a  mortal  hatred  for  his  Grace, 
and  indulged  his  refentment  by  painting 
him  in  the  blacked  colours.  From  this 
circumftance,  I  infer,  that  Mr.  Boyd  form- 
ed his  opinion  of  the  noble  Duke's  conduct 
from  the  reprefentations  of  Mr.  Macleane 
and  his  brother ;  that  his  friendfhip  for 
them,  together  with  the  conviclion  that  the 
meafufes  of  his  Grace's  adminiftration  were 
inconfiftent  with  the  true  principles  of  the 
conflitution,  and  ruinous  to  the  empire,  in- 
duced him  to  hold  him  up  to  the  nation 
as  a.  weak  and  dangerous  minifler ;  and 
that  his  conftant  habit  of  converting  with 
them  on  the  fubjecl;  had  fharpened  and 
envenomed  the  point  of  his  fatire. 

Such  are  the  motives  which  may  be  fup- 
pofed  to  have  influenced  Mr.  Boyd  in  writ-" 
ing  the  letters  of  Juntas.     And  having  now 

(hewn, 


126  tlFE  OF 


ftiewn,  that  he  was  not  only  qualified  in 
every  refpeft  to  have  been  the  writer  of 
thofe  letters,  but  alfo  that  his  other  political 
writings  refemble  them  fo  exaclly,  as  to 
afford  the  ftrongeft  preemptive  proof,  that 
they  are  the  compofitions  of  the  fame  per- 
fon,~I  (hall  proceed  to  ftate  the  facls  and 
circumflances,  which  in  conjunction  with 
the  internal  evidence  that  has  been  adduc- 
ed, have  fully  convinced  me,  and  will,  I 
think,  convince  every  unbiaffed  mind,  that 
he  was  in  reality  the  author  of  Junius. 
For,  in  this  inveftigation,  poiitive  evidence 
cannot  reafonably  be  expected;  as  Junius 
has  declared  to  the  world,  "  that  he  was 
"  the  folc  depofitory  of  his  fecret,"  and 
"  that  it  mould  perifh  with  him"  and  as 
Mr.  H.  S.  Woodfall  has  lately  permitted 
his  brother  to  acknowledge  for  him,  that 
he  does  not  know  who  was  the  author  of 
Junius*.  The  only  evidence,  therefore, 

of 


*  Mr.  William  Woodfall  in  one  of  his  letters,  which 
appeared  laft  autumn  in  the  Morning  Chronicle,  tells  the 
publick,  "  that  the  writer  of  Junius  premlfed  hit  brother^ 
"  t/jat  be  would  one  day  let  him  into  bis  ficret"  and  that  when 

that 


HUGH  BOYD. 

of  which  Mr.  H.  S.  Woodfall  can  be 
poflefied,  is  the  manufcript  of  Junius, 
which  if  he  has  got,  he  does  not  choofe  to 
produce,  becaufe  he  perfeElly  well  knows, 
that  there  is  Jome  iimilitude  between  it,  and 
the  common  hand-writing  of  Mr.  Boyd, 
and  becaufe  from  thence  he  apprehends 
that  if  it  were  compared  with  Mr.  Boyd's 
difguifed  hand,  fome  proofs  of  which  Mrs* 
Boyd  has  in  her  poffeflion,  the  refemblance 
would  appear  too  ftriking,  to  admit  of  a 
doubt,  that  the  manufcript  of  Junius  was 
written  by  Mr.  Boyd.  But  Mr.  H.  S. 
Woodfall  has  informed  me,  that  he  did  not 
prefervc  the  MSS.  of  Junius*',  and  as  I 
have  certainly  no  right  to  queftion  the 
truth  of  this  declaration,  I  truft  the  publick 

that'  day  comes,  he  will  expofe  all  our  errors  !  !  —  Junlui 
then,  in  Mr.  Woodfall's  opinion,  is  ftill  living:  but* 
what  fignifies  the  opinion  of  Mr.  Woodfall  on  this  fub- 
jeft,  when  he  does  not  acquaint  us  with  the  grounds  on 
which  he  has  formed  it ;  and  when  he  confefles  he  Joes 
not  knew  who  was  the  writer  of  Junius. 

9  This  he  told  me,  in  the  courfe  of  a  convention  I  had 
wrth  him  bh'thfc  fubjeft,  at  his  own  houfc,  at  Chelfea,  in 
May  I708:-Mftr.  William  Woodfall,  and  a  young  lady, 
were  prefent. 

will 


128  LIFE  OF 

will  be  fatisfied  with  the  opinion  of  thofe 
who  had  opportunities  of  examining 
Junius's  hand  writing,  and  who  mufl  be 
perfectly  difmterefted  in  the  prefent  difcuf- 
fion. 

With  regard  to  Mr.  H.  S.  Woodfall 
having  faid,  "that  he  did  not  believe  Mr, 
"  Boyd  was  Junius  *,"  I  fhall  only  ob- 
ferve,  that  his  belief  in  this  matter  is  of 
little  confequence,  as  he  has  doubtlefs  very 
fufficient  reafons  for  wifhing  to  keep  the 
publick  in  the  dark  refpe6Hng  the  author 
of  Junius,  and  as  I  prefume  he  will  not 
upon  his  honour  deny,  that  he  once 
thought  Mr.  Boyd  was  that  very  perfon, 
nor  that  he  did  not  notice  in  the  letters  of 
Dcmocraticus,  fome  of  the  chara&eriftical 
features  of  Junitiss*  compofition.  The  fol- 
lowing anecdote  will  at  once  refrefh  Mr. 
Woodfall's  memory,  and  juftify  th£  forego- 
ing obfervations. 

. 
• 

*  In  the  Preface  to  the  former  edition  of  Mr.  Boyd's 
Life,  I  ftated,  that  Mr.  H.  S.  Woodfall  had  declared  to 
me,  that  he  did  not  .believe  Mr.  Boyd  was  the  author  of 
Junius. 

In 


HUGH    BOYD. 

%In  the  year  1780,  when  Mr.  Almon's  pa- 
per, entitled  the  London  Courant,  was  in 
agitation.,  the  late  Mr.  Stratford  Canning, 
(uncle  to  the  prefent  under  fecretary  of 
ftate)  by  defire  of  many  diftinguifhed  per- 
fonages,  folicited  Mr.  Boyd  to  conduct  it, — 
which  he  refufed,  promifing,  however,  to 
write  for  it.  A  few  days  after  he  had  made 
this  promife,  walking  the  ftreet  with  a 
friend  or  two,  they  met  Mr.  H.  S.  Wood- 
fall,  (lopped,  and  entered  into  conversation, 
which  turning  upon  the  new  paper,  Wood- 
fall  looked  Mr.  Boyd  full  in  the  face,  and 
then  faid,— f:  Almon  expefts  to  overfet  all 
"  the  other  papers,  for  he  fays  Junius  is  to 
"  write  for  the  Courant."  The  gentlemen 
who  were  prefent  on  the  occafion,  were 
ftruck  fo  forcibly  with  the  imprefTive  man- 
ner in  which  Woodfall  fpoke,  that  they 
were  convinced,  he  confidently  believed 
Mr.  Boyd  to  be  the  author  of  Junius. 

Thus  every  reader  will  know  what  weight 

to  give  to  the  late  declaration  of  Mr.  H.  S. 

Woodfall  on  this  fubjecl ;  and  thus  have  I 

endeavoured  to  clear  my  argument  from  an 

VOL.  i.  i  obje£lign 


ago  LIFE  OF 

objection  of  fome  apparent,  though  not  of 
any  real,  tfrength. 

As  moll  of  the  fafts  which  I  am  now  go- 
ing to  fubmit  to  the  publick,  reft  on  the 
teftimpny  of  Mrs.  Boyd,  it  js  very  effential 
to  mention,  that  fhe  is  living,  and  that  every 
one  who  hasfany  knowledge  of  her  character 
will  admit,  that  fhe.  is  in  every  refpeft  the 
very  beft  evidence  that  can  be  wifhed  for, 
in  a  difcinTion  of  this  kind.  And  I  can  with 
truth  affirm,  that  with  regard  to  the  contro- 
yerfy  about  the  author  of  jfunius's  letters, 
{he  is  entirely  free  from  that  partiality  by 
which  (he  may  be  fuppofed  to  be  influenced, 
though  her  reverence  for  truth  obliges  her 
to  avow,  that  (he  is  convinced  Mr.  Boyd 
muft  have  been  the  real  writer  of  thofe 
papers. 

In  the  latter  end  of  the  year  1768,  the 
3uthpr  of  Junius's  letters  commenced  his 
correfpondence  with  the  Puttick  Advertifer  ; 
and  on  the  2ift  of  January  1769,  the  firft 
letter  under,,  the  fignature  of  Junius  ap* 
peared  in  .  that  paper.  During  the  years 
1769  and  1770,  he  alfo  wrote  occafionally 

in 


HUGH  fiOYD. 

in  the  fame  paper  under  the  fignatures  of 
Lucius  and  Brutus,  and  he  fometimes  fent 
communications  to  Mr.  H.  S.  Woodfall, 
without  any  fignature  at  all.  The  letters 
under  the  fignature  of  Philo  Junius,  he  has 
hi mfelf  acknowledged  *,  were  his  own  pro- 
ductions. He  likewife  wrote  private  letters 
to  fome  diftinguifhed  perfons,  under  the 
fignature  of  Junius,  which  were  tranfmitted 
to  them  through  Mr.  H.  S.  Woodfall. 

Now  it  is  a  certain  fa6t,  that  Mr.  Boyd 
commenced  his  correfpondence  with  the 
Pub  tick  Advertifer,  precifely  at  the  fame 
period  of  time  with  Junius.  In  the  winter 
of  1768,  he  fent  feveral  letters  to  Mr. 
Woodfall ;  the  contents  of  which  he  kept 
a  fecret  from  Mrs.  Boyd.  In  the  beginning 
of  January  1769,  he  was  at  great  pains  in 
accuftoming  himfe]f  to  difguife  his  hand- 
writing. He  ufed  frequently  in  the  courfe 
of  a  forenoon,  to  come  from  his  fludy,  in 
which  he  had  locked  hi  mfelf  up,  into  the 
parlour;  and  mewing  Mrs.  Boyd  fome  flips 

*  See  the  Preface  to  Junius,  in  page  I,  of  Woodfall's 
edition. 

12  gf 


132  LIFE   OF 

of  paper  on  which  he  had  written,  would 
afk  her,  whether  (he  thought  he  had  dif- 
guifed  his  hand?  She  told  him,  that  he 
had  difguifed  it  fo  completely,  that  none 
but  thofe.  who  were  very  well  acquainted,  with 
his  common  hand  would  fufpett  the  writing 
to  be  his. 

When  the  controverfy  between  Sir  Wil- 
liam Draper  and  Junius  took  place  in  the 
month  of  February  1769,  and  when  the 
letters  of  Junius  thereby  became  the  con- 
11  ant  converfation  in  all  the  literary,  politi- 
cal, and  fafhionable  circles  in  London,  Mr. 
Boyd  evinced  the  greatejt  anxiety,  about 
the  letters  which  he  was  at  that  time  writing 
for  the  Publick  Advertifer,  and  he  praftifed 
a  peculiar  fecrecy,  both  with  regard  to  their 
contents,  and  to  the  mode  of  tranfmitting 
them  to  Mr.  Woodfall.  In  the  courfe  of 
the  controverfy,  Mrs.  Boyd  begged  of  him 
to  take  in  the  Publick  Advertifer,  as  fhe  was 
defirous  to  read  the  letters  of  Junius  as  they 
came  out;  but  this  requejl,  notwithftanding 
her  repeated  entreaties,  he  thought  it  prudent 
to  decline :  and  it  was  not  till  two  years 
afterwards,  that  by  mere  dint  of  importunity, 

fhe 


HUGH    BOYD.  133 

Ihe  overcame  his  fcruples,  and  prevailed  on 
him  to  take  in  that  paper.  Yet  he  himfelf 
always  manifefled  much  folicitude  to  fee  the 
letters  of  Junius -,  and  frequently,  on  the 
day  after  he  had  fent  a  letter  to  Woodfall, 
he  would  walk  out  pretty  early,  and  upon 
returning  home  to  dinner,  tell  Mrs.  Boyd 
with  an  animated  countenance,  "  That  Junius 
"  was  announced  for  to -morrow" 

With  Sir  William  Draper,  and  every 
thing  that  concerned  him,  Mr.  Boyd  was 
well  acquainted  :  and  he  often  fpoke  to 
Mrs.  Boyd  about  Sir  William's  controverfy 
with  Junius,  obferving,  that  the  Knight 
richly  merited  the  laming  he  received,  and 
that  he  had  compelled  Junius  to  fay  more 
of  Lord  Granby's  character  than  he  origi- 
nally wimed, — for,  that  Junius  refpe&ed 
Lord  Granby  *. 

In  the  fummer  of  1769,  when  the  letters 
of  PhUo-Junius  firft  appeared,  Mr.  Boyd 
repeatedly  told  Mrs.  Boyd,  in  confidence, 

*  When  the  letters  of  Juntas  were  publifhed  in  vo- 
lumes, the  very  fame  obfervations  appeared  in  a  note  to 
Junius's  reply  to  Sir  William  Draper's  letter  of  the  ayth 
February  1769. 

that 


134 

that  flie  migljt  rely  upon  fr  they  were  written 
by  Junius  himfelf,  for  thab  it  was  necelfary 
to  make  the  publick  fuppofe  he  had  an 
auxiliary  *. 

During  the  autumn  and  winter  of  1769, 
Mr.  Boyd  continued  to  fend  letters  to  the 
Publick  Adverlifer,  almoft  every  week,  fu- 
perfcribed  in  his  difguifed  hand,  and  with 
the  aforefaid  fecrecy.  And  at  this  time,  he 
ufed  eagerly  to  feek  opportunities  of  intro- 
ducing the  fubjecl;  of  Junius,  in  his  private 
converfations  with  Mrs.  Boyd.  He  would 
afk  her  opinion  of  different  letters,  and  de- 
fire  her  to  point  out  the  paffages  in  them 
(he  moft  admired ;  and  he  always  feemed 
gratified  with  her  remarks  upon  them,  whe- 
ther of  cenfure,  or  praife.  (i  In  fhort," 
fays  Mrs,  Boyd,  in  a  letter  to  me,  in  which 
{he  has  detailed  thofe  converfations,  "  what- 
4t  ever  fubjecl:  our  private  converfations  be- 
"  gan  with,  we  always  ended  with  Junius ; 
"  and  it  js  not  credible  that  a  perfon,  wholly 
"  unconcerned  with  that  produ61ion,  could 

*  This,  as  it  has  been  already  ftatjed,  turned  out  to  be 
trr.e. 

have 


HtJGH    BOYD.  135 

"  have  (hewn,  for  fo  many  years,  fuch  an 
"  extraordinary  degree  of  inter  eft  about  it." 
This  circumftance  is  greatly  ftrengthened 
by  the  fa&,  that  Mrs.  Boyd  was  the  only 
perfon  in  whofe  prefence  he  ever  betrayed 
any  of  thofe  fymptorns  x>f  paternal  regard 
for  the  letters  of  Junius,  which  have  been 
mentioned ;  and  that  in  company  with  his 
literary  friends, particularly  with  Mr.  Wi/kes, 
he  talked  of  Junius  with  the  moft  perfect 
indifference. 

On  the  igth  of  December  1769,  Junius's 
letter  to  a  GREAT  PERSONAGE,  made  its 
appearance,  and  fet  the  whole  town  in  a 
ferment.  Minifters  fpared  no  ex  pence,  no 
trouble,  no  fecret  arts,  no  means  whatever 
that  either  their  ingenuity  could  fuggeft,  or 
the  publick  purfe  fupply,  to  difcover  the 
author.  Treafury  fpies  were  Rationed  in 
every  place  where  there  was  the  fmalleil 
likelihood  of  gaining  intelligence  refpefting 
him  ;  and  every  exertion  was  made  to  inter- 
cept his  correfpondence  with  Woodfalf, 
whofe  office,  at  the  corner  of  Ivy-lane,  was 
for  that  purpofe  clofely  watched. 

Mr. 


13)6  LIFE    OF 

Mr.  Boyd  at  this  time  carried  on  his  cor- 
refpondence  with  the  Publick  Advertifer, 
with  a  caution  fo  ftudicd,  and  a  fecrecy  fo 
impenetrable,  as  to  furprife  Mrs.  Boyd,  and 
make  a  lading  impreflion  on  her  mind. 
After  writing  in  his  ftudy  for  feveral  days 
together,  he  would  afk  Mrs.  Boyd  to  take  a 
walk  with  him,  often  in  the  dufk  of  the  even- 
ing, and  fometimes  at  night ;  and  after  hav- 
ing conducted  her  to  fome  by-way,  or  un- 
frequented ftreet,  would  flop,  as  if  fuddenly 
recollefting  himfelf,  and  faying,  "  he  had  a 
(t  letter  to  fend  to  Wood/all"  took  a  large 
packet  from  his  pocket,  and  put  it  into  a 
remote  penny  poft-office.  At  other  times 
he  would  give  it  to  Mrs.  Boyd,  and  defire 
her  to  carry  it  to  the  corner  of  Ivy-lane, 
and. put  it  into  Woodfall's  letter-box.  When 
they  returned  home,  Mrs.  Boyd  often  hint- 
ed to  him,  that  fhe  fufpeded  he  was  Junius, 
to  which  he  made  no  reply,  but  would  in- 
genioufly  change  the  converfation.  Once 
or  twice,  when  he  was  afking  her  opinion  of 
fome  favourite  pajfages  in  Junius,  fhe  has 
told  him,  that  fhe  wifhed  he  was  Junius,  at 

which 


HUGH    3OYD.  137 

which  he  would  fnr.le,  and  only  fay — 
"  Should  you?"—"  Unfortunately,"  fays  Mrs. 
Boyd,  in  a  'etier  to  me,  "  I  always  added, 
"  that  if  he  v/as  actually  Junius,  I  mould 
"  never  forgive  him,  for  keeping  the  fecret 
"  from  me ;  and  this  I  imagine  was  one 
"  ftrong  reafon  for  his  not  difclofing  it  to 
"  me,  after  all  the  buftle  about  Junius  had 
"  fubfided."  "  Sometimes,"  continues  Mrs. 
Boyd,  "  on  going  to  dinner,  or  fupper,  and 
"  finding  him  writing  in  his  ftudy,  I  have 
(t  gone  to  the  delk,  afking  queflions,  on 
*f  which  he  would  immediately  cover  his 
"  writings,  and  fay  fomething  lively  about 
"  female  curiofity.  Sometimes  he  wrote 
"  under  other  fignatures,  and  would  afk  me  to 
*c  copy  what  he  had  compofed,and  which  were 
"  fent  in  my  hand-writing  to  Woodfall,  In 
"  particular,  I  copied  a  letter  addrefied  to  Sir 
*'  FLETCHER  NOR  TON,  on  his  being  chofen 
ff  Speaker  of  the  Houfe  of  Commons  *." 
This  took  place  in  the  month  of  March 

*  This  letter,  together  with  feveral  others  of  Mr. 
Boyd's  that  appeared  at  different  times  in  Mr.  Woodfall's 
paper,  fhall  be  prefented  to  the  publick  in  the  courfe  of 
th,is  year,  as  a  third  volume  t9  thefe  works. 

1770. 


138  MFE    OF 

1770.  Throughout  the  remainder  of  that 
year,  and  during  the  fpring  of  '1771,  Mr. 
•Boyd  continued  to  write,  with  the  moft  unre- 
mitting diligence  and  fecrecy,  and  to  tranfmit 
what  he  had  written  to  Mr.  Woodfall,  by  the 
fame  methods  that  I  have  already  men- 
tioned. 

In  April  1771,  he  was  under  the  neceffity 
of  going  to  Ireland,  for  ten 'days,  on  very 
urgent  bufinefs.  Yet,  his  correfpondence 
with  Mr,  Woodfall  was  of  too  much  im- 
portance to  be  neglefted :  for,  in  that  fhort 
fpace  of  time  he  fent  Mrs.  Boyd  three  large 
packets,,  with  the  mojl  particular  injunEtions, 
to  put  them  immediately,  into  Woodfall's 
letter-box. 

In  the  month  of  June  1 7  7 1 ,  he  took  a  houfe 
at  Kenton-Green,  near  Harrow.  In  the  courfe 
of  this  fummer,  it  is  well  known  that  the  con- 
troverfy  took  place  between  Mr.  Home  and 
Junius.  Refpecling  that  controverfy,  Mr. 
Boyd  manifefted  the  utmoft  eagernefs ;  and 
while  it  lafted,  he  ufed,  for  feveral  days  to- 
gether, to  lock  himfelf  up  in  his  ftudy  im- 
mediately after  breakfaft,  and  never  make 
his  appearance  again  until  dinner  was  an- 
nounced. 


HUGH    BOYD.  139 

nounced.  When  he  had  finifhed  what  he 
was  writing,  he  would  walk  into  London 
with  it,  and  walk  back  the  fame  day  *.  In 
talking  to  Mrs.  Boyd  about  Mr.  Home's 
long  letter  to  Junius,  he  con  fr  (Ted  "  that 
"  Mr.  H.  was  an  ingenious  and  able  rea- 
"  foner,  but  that  JurJus,  'notwithstanding 
"  this,  had  the  better  of  him/'  obferving  at 
the  fame  time,  that  Junius's  expreffion  that 
(l  Mr.  Wilkes  Jkould  be  fupported  while  he 
"  was  a  thorn  in  the  Kings  Jide"  was  both 
very  unguarded  and  unfortunate. 

In  the  beginning  of  November  1771, 
Mr.  Boyd  borrowed  from  a  neighbour  of 
his  at  Kenton-Green,  a  great  many  folio 
books  of  law,  and  Rate  trials,  which  he  ufed 
daily  to  examine  with  the  moft  fedulous 
attention,  and  from  which  he  made  feveral 
extracts,  for  the  purpofe,  Mrs.  Boyd  thinks, 
of  fupporting  the  charge  that  Juriius  had 
too  haftily  made  againft  Lord  Mansfield, 
on  account  of  his  Lordfhip  having  bailed 
Mr.  JOHN  EYRE.  It  is  neceflary  here  to 
remind  the  reader,  that  Junius  in  a  fhort 

*  Mr.  Boyd   was  a  great  walker.     He  would  often 
walk  thirty  miles  in  a  day,  without  being  fatigued. 

i  letter 


14O  LIFE  OF 

letter  to  Lord  Mansfield,  dated  the  2d  No- 
vember 1771,  concludes  in  the  following 
words.  "If  ever  Mr.  Eyre  fhould  be 
"  brought  to  trial,  we  (hall  hear  what  you 
"  have  to  fay  for  yourfelf ;  and  I  pledge  my- 
"  fdf  before  God  and  my  country,  in  proper 
"  time  and  place,  to  make  good  my  charge 
"  againft  you." — About  eight  days  after  the 
publication  of  this  letter,  the  following 
notice  appeared  in  the  Publick  Adver- 
tifer. 

November  the  gth,  1771. 

"  Junius  engages  to  make  good  his  charge 
<s  againft  Lord  Chief  Jujiice  Mansfeld,  fome 
*6  time  before  the  meeting  of  parliament,  in 
**  order  that  the  Houfe  of  Commons  may, 
"  if  they  think  proper,  make  it  one  article 
"  in  the  impeachment  of  the  faid  Lord  Chief 
"  Jujlice." 

Now  between  the  date  of  this  notice,  and 
the  2ift  of  January  1772,  the  only  letter 
from  Junius  which  appeared  in  the  Publick 
ddvertifer,  was  a  fhort  one  to  the  Duke  of 
Grafton,  and  the  laft  one  indeed  that  he  ever 
addrefTed  to  his  Grace.  It  is  dated  the  27th 
November  1771.  From  this  time  till  the 

20th 


HUGH    BOYD.  14! 

20th  of  January  following,  Mr.  Boyd's  whole 
time  was  occupied  in  examining  the  law 
books  and  ftate  trials  above  mentioned,  and 
in  writing  with  his  ufual  fecrecy  for  the  Pub- 
lick  Advertifer.  jfwiius's  elaborate  letter  to 
Lord  Mansfield,  in  which  he  ftrove  hard  to 
make  good  his  charge  again/I  him,  is  dated  the 
sift  January  1772  :  about  three  weeks  after 
the  publication  of  this  letter  Mr.  Boyd  went 
to  Ireland ;  and  Junius  ceafed  to  write 
under  that  fignature  for  the  Publick  Adver- 
tifer. 

The  abrupt  manner  in  which  Junius  con- 
cluded his  letters,  occafioned  much  obferva- 
tion  at  the  time,  and  many  a  plaufible  con- 
je£lure  has  been  made  concerning  it.  The 
general  opinion,  however,  was,  that  he 
had  either  died,  or  quitted  the  country  ;  and 
hence  one  or  two  gentlemen  have  beenfup- 
pofed  to  have  written  thofe  letters,  who,  I 
believe,  never  in  their  lives  wrote  a  line  for 
Mr.  Woodfall's  paper.  But,  when  we  know 
that  Mr.  Boyd  was  Junius,  the  matter  is 
eafily  accounted  for.  On  his  return  from 
Ireland  in  March  1772,  he  found  his  friend 
Mr.  Lauchlin  Macleane  had  made  an  amica- 
ble 


LIFE    OF 

ble  adjustment  of  his  differences  with  the 
Duke  of  Grafton,  and  had  gone  over  to  the 
miniflry ;  he  was  therefore  induced  to  de- 
cline all  further  hoftility  towards  his  Grace, 
and  to  abandon  his  intention,  as  it  is  con- 
veyed in  JuniusS  tad  letter  to  him,  of  at- 
tacking him  again  upon  tkefale  of  the  patent 
to  Mr.  HIXE.  And  it  is  obfervable,  that 
though  Mr.  Boyd,  in  his  political  writings 
now  publimed,  pointedly  attacks  all  the 
other  perfons  who  are  fatirized  by  Juniu-s, 
he  never  once  mentions  the  name  of  Graf- 
ton.  Befides  this  motive  for  his  difcontinu- 
ing  to  write  tinder  the  fignature  of  Junius, 
there  was  another  which,  perhaps,  operated 
flill  more  powerfully  on  his  mind.  In  the 
beginning  of  1772,  his  pecuniary  misfor- 
tunes and  difficulties  crowded  upon  him  from 
every  quarter ;  and  this  circumftance,  to- 
gether with  his  being  obliged  at  this  period 
to  go  frequently  to  Ireland,  abfolutely  dif- 
abled  him  from  bellowing  that  time  and  at- 
tention on  his  literary  purfuits,  which  he 
had  fo  fuccefsfully  employed  during  the 
three  preceding  years,  and  without  which 
he  felt  he  could  neither  fupport  with  his 

wonted 


HUGH    BOYD.  143 

wonted  vigour,  fo  arduous  a  conteft,  nor 
preferve  that  fecrecy  which  he  was  well 
aware  his  perfonal  fafety  required.  And 
doubtlefs  he  alfo  confidered  that  by  conti- 
nuing to  write  as  Junius  he  might,  from 
thofe  caufes,  poflibly  lower,  but  could  not, 
under  fuch  circumftances,  eafily  heighten 
the  reputation  which  his  talents  had  gained 
to  that  fignature. 

Still,  however,  he  carried  on  his  corre- 
fpondence  with  Woodfall  during  fome  part 
of  the  year  1772,  with  the  fame  caution  he 
had  before  obferved.  But,  after  the  letters 
of  Junius  were  publifhed  colle6iively  for 
Woodfall  with  the  Dedication^  Preface,  and 
Notes  by  the  author,  he  feemed  as  if  his 
mind  had  been  relieved  from  a  burden,  and 
he  never  again  was  at  fo  much  pains  to  con- 
ceal from  Mrs.  Boyd  the  contents  of  the 
letters  he  occafionally  tranfmitted  to  the 
Publick  Adveriifer. 

On  the  very  day  that  the  above  men- 
tioned edition  of  Junius  was  publifiied,  he 
brought  home  a  copy  of  the  work,  and 
prefented  it  to  Mrs.  Boyd,  with  an  anima- 
tion in  his  countenance  that  befpoke  a  kind 

of 


144  LIFE   OF 

of  regard  for  it,  which  none  but  its  author 
could  be  fuppofed  to  have  felt.  In  look- 
ing over  the  letters  Mrs.  Boyd  was  much 
flruck,  with  finding  an  anecdote  related  in 
one  of  the  notes,  relative  to  Lord  IRNHAM 
and  one  of  her  guardians,  which  fhe  had  in 
confidence  communicated  to  Mr.  Boyd,  and 
which  fhe  knew  had  been  very  ftudioufly 
kept  fecret  by  the  parties  concerned.  This 
note  was  added  to  the  lafl  letter  which 
Junius  addrefTed  to  the  Duke  of  Grafton; 
and  in  order  that  the  reader  may  the  more 
clearly  comprehend  the  circumftance  it  re- 
cords, I  beg  leave  to  cite  it  verbatim. 
"  There  is  a  certain  family  in  this  country," 
fays  Junius,  "  on  which  nature  feems  to 
'*  have  entailed  an  hereditary  bafenefs  of  dif- 
"  pofnion.  As  far  as  their  hiftory  has  been 
"  known  the  fon  has  regularly  improved 
"  upon  the  vices  of  his  father,  and  has 
"  taken  care  to  tranfmit  them  pure  and 
"  undimiriifhed  into  the  bofom  of  his  fuc- 
"  ceffor.  In  the  fenate  their  abilities  have 
"  confined  them  to  thofe  humble  fordid  fer- 
"  vices,  in  which  the  fcavengers  of  the  mi- 
"  niflry  are  ufually  employed.  But  in  the 

"  memoirs 


HUGH  BO  YD.  145 

"  memoirs  of  private  treachery  they  (land 
"  fwft  and  unrivalled.  The  following  {lory 
"  will  ferve  to  illuftrate  the  character  of 
(i-  this  refpedable  family,  and  to  convince 
"  the  world,  that  the  prefent  pofleffor  has 
"  as  clear  a  title  to  the  infamy  of  his  an- 
"  ceftors  as  he  has  to  their  eftate.  It  de- 
(<  ferves  to  be  recorded  for  the  curiofity  of 
"  the  fad,  and  mould  be  given  to  the  pub- 
e<  lick  as  a  warning  to  every  honeft  mem- 
'*"  her  of  fociety* 

"  The  prefent  Lord  Irnham,  who  is  now 
"  in  the  decline  of  life,  lately  cultivated  the 
"  acquaintance  of  a  younger  brother  of  a  fa- 
"  mily  with  which  he  had  lived  in  fome  degree 
"  of  intimacy  and  friendihip.  The  young 
"  man  had  long  been  the  dupe  of  a  mod 
"  unhappy  attachment  to  a  common  profti- 
"  tute  *.  His  friends  and  relations  forefaw 
"  the  confequences  of  this  connection,  and 
"  did  every  thing  that  depended  on  them  to 
"  fave  him  from  ruin.  But  he  had  a  friend 
"  in  Lord  Irnham.  whofe  advice  rendered 
:S  all  their  endeavours  ineffectual.  This 


*  The  noted  PPU.Y  DAVJS, 
i.  k  "hoary 


14.6  LIFE    OF 

"  hoary  letcher  not  contented  with  the  en- 
"  joyment  of  his  friend's  miftrefs,  was  bafe 
"  enough  to  take  advantage  of  the  paflions 
"  and  folly  of  the  young  man,  and  perfuad- 
"  ed  Kim  to  marry  her.  He  defcended  even 
"  to  perform  the  office  of  father  to  the 
"  proftitute.  He  gave  her  to  his  friend 
"  who  was  on  the  point  of  leaving  the  king- 
•*e  dom,  and  the  next  night  lay  with  her 
"  himfelf." 

"  Whether  the  depravity  of  the  human 
*£  heart  can  produce  any  thing  more  bafe 
if  and  deteftable  than  this  fa6l,  mud  be  left 
"  undetermined  until  the  fon  Jkall  arrive  at 
s<  his  father's  age  and  experience." 

The  family  herein  alluded  to,  (the  name 
I  forbear  to  mention)  confifted  of  three  bro- 
thers, who  were  Mrs.  Boyd's  guardians,  and 
in  whofe  welfare  and  happinefs  (he  and  Mr. 
Boyd  were  by  confequence  much  interefted. 
It  was  the  youngeft  of  the  three  who  was  Lord 
Irnham's  particular  friend,  and  whofe  friend- 
fhip  his  Lordfliip  fo  faithfully  and  honour- 
ably requited.  The  noble  Lord,  however,  had 
yet  decency  enough  to  conceal  the  circum- 
ftancepf  the  marriage  from  the  cenforious 

eye 


HUGH    BOYD.  147 

eye  of  the  publick ;  and  he  therefore  ex- 
atled  a  promife  from  the  parties,  never  to 
mention  the  particulars  of  it  to  any  one. 
But  the  brothers  of  the  unfortunate  young 
man  fufpefting  what  had  happened,  impor- 
tuned him  fo  clofely  about  it,  that  he  at  lafl 
confefled  the  whole  of  the  tranfaftion,  and 
minutely  related  to  them  every  thing  con- 
cerning it.  Yet  they  fuppreffed  their  re- 
fentment  towards  Lord  Irnham,  becaufe 
they  could  not  make  the  matter  publick, 
without  expofmg  the  weaknefs  of  their  bro- 
ther :  and  for  this  reafon,  they  adopted 
every  poflible  precaution  to  prevent  the 
ftory  from  going  beyond  the  family.  Ne- 
verthelefs,  Mrs.  Boyd  having  been  always 
confidered  as  one  of  the  family,  it  was  not 
concealed  from  her ;  and  fhe  told  it  in  con- 
fidence to  Mr.  Boyd,  with  precifely  the 
fame  minutenefs  with  which  it  is  detailed  in 
the  note  above  quoted,  a  fliort  time  before 
the  author's  edition  of  Juni us  was  publifhed. 
Shocked  at  the  infamous  conduct  of  Lord 
Irnham,  and  feeling  for  the  unhappy  fitu- 
ation  of  the  young  man  himfelf,  no  lefs 
than  for  the  difhonour  which  had  been  put 
k  2  upon 


148  LIFE    OP 

upon  a  family  with  which  Mrs.  Boyd  was 
fo  intimately  connected,  he  was  naturally 
defirous  of  refenting  the  injury  his  Lord- 
fhip  had  done  them,  and  he  well  knew  that 
his  pen  was  the  only  weapon,  by  which  a 
heart  like  his  Lordfhip's  could  be  rendered 
fore. 

"  If  then  we  confider,  that  it  was  not  only 
Lord  Irnham's  intereft,  but  his  wifh,  to  bury 
the  (lory  in  oblivion,  that  it  was  peculiarly 
the  interefl  of  Mifs  DAVIS  to  conform  to 
his  wifhes,  and  that  in  fa6l  his  Lordfhip 
was  fo  well  convinced  of  Junius  having  re- 
ceived his  information  from  the  other  par- 
ty, that  lie  fent  the  young  man  a  challenge, 
— it  amounts,  I  think,  to  a  moral  certainty,, 
that  the  (lory  was  communicated  to  Junius, 
by  the  family  themfelves:  and,  therefore, 
calling  to  mind  all  the  foregoing  evidence 
in  proof  of  Mr.  Boyd  having  been  the  au- 
thor of  Junius,  and  at  the  fame  time  cou- 
pling the  circumitance  of  Mrs.  Boyd  hav- 
ing minutely  related  to  him  all  the  particu- 
lars of  this  ftory,  with  the  fact,  that  (lie  was 
the  only  perfon  not  immediately  living  in 
the  family  to  whom  thefe  particulars  were 

told, 
2 


HUGH   BOYD.  149 

told,  and  with  the  motive,  as  above  ex- 
plained, for  his  making  them  publick,— it 
muft  at  Leaft  be  admitted,  that  there  is  die 
very  ftrongeft  probability,  of  his  having 
written  the  note  in  queftion. 

There  are  yet  fome  other  circumftances, 
which  I  conceive  it  to  be  of  importance  to 
(late.  —  When  the  information  was  filed 
againft  Mr.  Almon,  for  having  fold  fome 
of  the  monthly  magazines,  into  which 
Junius's  addrefs  to  His  Majefty  had  been 
copied,  Mr.  Boyd  (hewed  great  anxiety 
about  him,  but  did  not  however  attend  his 
trial,  for  a  reafon  which  I  think  Mr.  Almon 
has  fatisfa&orily  explained  in  his  firft  letter 
to  me  on  this  fubjecl*.  But  when  Mr. 
Woodfall's  trial  commenced,  a  few  weeks 
afterwards,  he  attended  it  with  the  utmoft 
folicitudet. 

In  Junius's  Dedication,  the  author  ob- 
ferves, — t:  that  the  King  may  poffibly  be 

*  See  the  Appendix  to  the  Life. 

t  Mr.  Boyd  ufed  to  relate,  that  when  Woodfall  afked  Sir 
John  Day,  (then  Mr.  Day),  his  opinion  of  his  cafe,  the 
learned  gentleman  replied,  "  There  was  only  a  hair's 
breadth  between  it  and  treafon,  bat  that  it  was  a  borje 
kair.'' 

"  advifed 


Lli'L   OF 

"  advifed  to  diflblve  the  prefect  parliament 
tf  a  year  or  two  before  it  expires  of  courfe, 
**  and  precipitate  a  new  election,  in  hopes 
"  of  taking  the  nation  by  furprife." — Now 
Mr.  Boyd  went  over  to  Ireland  in  Septem- 
ber 1774,  and  on  the  3Oth  of  that  month  a 
proclamation  was  very  fuddenly  and  unex- 
peEledly  iflued  for  diffolving  the  parlia- 
ment ;  upon  which  he  immediately  wrote 
to  Mrs.  Boyd,  triumphantly  reminding 
her,  that  Junius  had  predicted  the  diflblu- 
tion. 

From  this  period,  until  the  year  in  which 
he  left  England  for  India,  he  ufed  occafion- 
ally  to  converfe  with  Mrs.  Boyd  refpecling 
Junius ;  and  in  thofe  converfations  he  al- 
ways afked  her  to  point  out  to  him  the 
.paflages  (he  mod  admired.  A  few  weeks 
before  he  embarked  for  India  with  Lord 
Macartney,  he  burnt,  with  his  own  hands, 
feveral  large  bundles  of  manufcript  papers, 
which,  fmce  the  time  that  Junius  ceafed  to 
write,  he  had  kept  carefully  locked  up ;  and 
he  was  fo  very  particular  in  deltroying 
them,  that  he  flood  over  the  fire,  until  they 
were  entirely  confumed,  taking  the  greatefl 

poffible 


HUGH   BOYD.  15! 

pofTible  care,    that  not    even  the   (mailed 
fhred  of  them  mould  efcape  the  flames. 

Some  years  after  Mr.  Boyd  had  gone  to 
India,  a  paragraph  *  appeared  in  a  morn- 
ing paper,  entitled  the  General,  Advertifer, 
purporting,  "  that  Jurims  had  certainly  ac- 
"  companied  Lord  Macartney  to  Madras,  that 
"  he  pofTeffed  the  moft  retentive ,  memory, 
"  and  that  he  was  an  Irifhman."  When  Mrs. 
Boyd  faw  this  paragraph,  (he  knew  it  al- 
luded to  Mr.  Boyd,  and  fearful,  left  the  dif- 
covery  of  his  having  written  the  letters  of 
Jurims,  might  be  prejudicial  to  his  profpe6ls 
in  India,  me  fent  a  friend  to  the  printer  of 
the  General  Advertifer,  to  requeft  he  would 
not  in  future  infert  in  his  paper  any  para- 
graph alluding  to  Mr.  Boyd.  And  at  the 
fame  time  (he  wrote  to  Mr.  Boyd,  enclofing 
him  this  paragraph,  and  urging  him,  if  what 
it  ftated  was  not  true,  to  contradict  it  with- 
out  delay ;  as  he  muft  be  fenfible,  if  fuch  a 
report  gained  credit,  it  would  materially  in- 
jure his  beft  intereft.  But,  to  this  requeit, 
though  (he  frequently  re-urged  it  to  him. 

*  See  this  paragraph  in  Mr.  Almon's  firft  letter  in  the 
Appendix. 

(he 


OF 


fhe  never  obtained  a  reply.  He  anfwered 
all  the  other  parts  of  her  letters  ;  but  that 
which  related  to  Junius  he  conftantly  paffed 
over  in  filence.  Can  it  then  be  believed, 
that  if  he  were  not  Junius  t  he  would  have 
perfifled  in  not  attending  to  Mrs.  Boyd's 
earneft  intreaties,  when  they  fo  forcibly  ap- 
pealed to  his  feelings  ?  If  he  were  not 
Junius,  by  what  motive  could  he  have  been 
actuated,  in  remaining  deaf  to  a  folicitation, 
at  once  proper  and  neceffary,  and  coming 
from  her  to  whom  he  never  in  his  life  denied 
any  thing  elfe  ?  If  he  were  not  Junius, 
furely  he  would  have  either  complied  with 
her  requeft,  or  treated  the  above  mentioned 
paragraph  with  ridicule.  It  may  indeed  be 
faid,  that  he  only  wrfhed  to  gratify  an  idle 
vanity,  by  endeavouring  to  make  her  be- 
lieve he  was  Junius  ;  but  vanity  is  ever 
too  aftive  and  reftlefs,  to  Confine  itfelf  with- 
in fo  narrow  a  circle  :  had  he  been  defirous 
of  being  looked  upon  as  the  author  of 
Junius,  his  vanity  would  infallibly  have 
prompted  him  to  hint  his  wifhes  to  others, 
as  well  as  to  Mrs.  Boyd.  Befides,  his  mind 
was  far  above  that  little  fordid  felfifhnefs, 

which 


HUGH   BOYD. 

which  induces  Tome  men  fecretly  to  wifh, 
that  they  might  be  confidered  by  their 
friends  as  the  authors  of  fuch  anonymous 
writings  as  have  attained  celebrity.  In  truth, 
he  was  always  defirous  to  conceal,  even  from 
Mrs.  Boyd,  that  he  had  written  thofe  per- 
formances which  we  now  know  to  be  his, 
but  which  he  never  acknowledged,  until  the 
proofs  agairift  him  were  too  ftrong  to  be 
denied.  Even  the  love  of  fame,  that  fine 
incentive  of  generous  minds,  could  not  be- 
tray him  into  an  oftentatious  difplay  of  vir- 
tue, nor  induce  him  to  pra£life  thofe  arts 
that  court  applaufe  *. 

Such  are  the  circumftances  which  reft 
upon  the  evidence  of  Mrs.  Boyd ;  and 
from  this  plain  ftatement  of  them,  the  truth 
of  the  following  fads,  which  are  effential 
to  the  point  at  iffue,  appears  to  be  fully 
eftablifhed. 

3  ft.  That  Mr.  Boyd  kept  up  a  conftant 
correfpondence  with  Mr.  Henry  Sampfon 
Woodfall,  during  the  three  fucceflive  years 

*  Ne  famam  quidem,  cui  etiam  fsepi  boni  indulgent, 
oftentanda  virtute,  aut  per  artem  quaslivit. — Tacit,  in  Vita 
Agrkola. 

in 


LIFE   OF 

in  which  the  letters  figned  Junius  appeared 
in  his  paper,  intitled  the  Publick  Advertifer. 

2d.  That  almoft  the  whole  of  Mr.  Boyd's 
time  and  attention,  during  thofe  years,  were 
occupied  in  that  correfponderice. 
..  gd.  That  both  before  the  commencement, 
and  during  the  continuance  of  that  corre- 
fpondence,  Mr.  Boyd  took  great  pains  in 
accuftoming  himfelf  to  difguife  his  hand- 
writing. 

4th.  That  from  the  time  the  firft  letter 
under  the  fignature  of  Junius  appeared, 
until  the .  author  of  Junius  publifhed  the 
whole  of  his  letters  in  volumes,  the  numerous 
letters  which  Mr.  Boyd  Tent  to  Vv'oodfall, 
were  written  with  the  mod  impenetrable 
fecrecy;  that  thofe  letters  were  fuperfcribed 
in  his  difguifed  hand- writing;  and  that  they 
were  conveyed  to  Woodfall's  office,  very 
often  by  Mrs.  Boyd  herfelf,  and  always 
with  a  caution  and  fcrupuloufnefs,  propor- 
tioned to  the  degree  of  activity  with  which 
government  at  different  periods  endeavour- 
ed to  difcover  the  writer  of  Junius. 

5th.  That  at  the  precife  time  Junius  dif- 
continued  to  write,  Mr.  Boyd  likewife  ceaf- 

ed 


HUGH   BOYD.  155 

ed  to  write  for  the  Publick  Advertifer,  with 
that  conftancy,  fecrecy,  and  attention  which 
from  the  very  week,  that  Junius  began  to 
correfpond  with  it,  he  had  invariably  ob- 
ferved. 

6th.  That  the  anecdote  refpe&ing  Lord 
Irnham  and  Polly  Davis,  which  is  related 
in  a  note  to  one  of  Junius's  letters,  muji 
have  been  written  by  Mr.  Boyd. 

yth.  That  he  always  (hewed,  when  in 
company  with  Mrs.  Boyd,  a  degree  of  anx- 
iety and  care  about  the  writings  of  jfunius, 
which  no  one  but  the  author  himfelf  can  be 
fuppofed  to  have  felt ;  though  in  the  pre- 
fence  of  every  other  perfon  he  liftened 
to  whatever  was  faid  about  jfumus  with  the 
greateft  apparent  indifference. 

8th.  That  Mrs.  Boyd  repeatedly  told 
him,  (he  had  ftrong  fufpicions  he  was  Ju- 
nius ;  but  that  to  all  (he  faid  on  that  fubjecl 
he  was  totally  filent. 

This  is  the  fum  of  Mrs.  Boyd's  evi* 
dence  ;  and  the  only  part  of  it  which  feems 
to  require  explanation,  is  that  which  relates 
to  Mr.  Boyd  having  carried  on  his  corre- 

fpondence 


LIFE   OF 

fpondence  with  Woodfall  in  a  difguifed  hand- 
writing. 

We  are  extremely  apt  to  imagine,  that  a 
difguifed  hand-writing  muft  neceffarily  be 
a  cramped  one,  or  muft  at  leaft  (hew  fome 
diftinguifhing  mark,  by  which  a  perfon  who 
is  in  the  conftant  habit  of  examining  a  va- 
riety of  manufcripts,  mall  know  it  to  be 
feigned,  although  he  mould  not  be  acquaint- 
ed with  the  writer's  ufual  hand-writing.  But 
this  notion  is,  furely,  very  fanciful  and  erro- 
neous :  for,  in  the  firft  place,  it  is  not  true, 
that  a  difguifed  hand- writing  has  always  a 
cramped  appearance  ; — being  an  attainment 
which  can  be  acquired  only  through  con- 
ftant practice,  practice  will  render  it  eafyy 
and  eafe  will  of  courfe  free  it  from  every 
thing  like  labour  or  reftraint :  and,  in  the 
next  place,  before  any  perfon  can  determine 
whether  or  not  a  hand-writing  be  difguifed, 
it  is  abfolutely  neceffary,  either  to  be  fami- 
liarly acquainted  with  the  writer's  common 
hand-writing,  or  to  have  an  opportunity  of 
attentively  comparing  the  one  with  the 
other,  Now,  with  refpeft  to  the  cafe  in 

qtieftion, 


HUGH  BO  YD.  l^J 

queftion,  the  facl  is,  that  Mr.  Boyd's  dif- 
guifed  hand-writing  has  not  any  finking  pe- 
culiarity diftin.51  from  his  common  hand- 
writing ;  there  is  nothing  in  the  one,  which 
would  attract  the  notice  of  a  perfon  who 
had  not  been  in  the  conftant  habit  of  feeing 
the  other ; — but,  a  perfon  who  had  been  in 
that  habit,  would  immediately  difcern  the 
refemblance  between  them ;  or  a  perfon  of 
penetration,  to  whom  the  difguifed  hand- 
writing had  once  been  familiar,  would, 
upon  a  dofe  infpeftion  of  the  common 
one,  be  fatisfied,  that  they  were  very  much 
alike. 

The  following  evidence,  fully  ju  Rifles 
this  account  of  Mr,  Boyd's  hand- writing, 
and  at  the  fame  time  proves  that  the 
manufcript  of  Junius  (irongly  refembled 
it. 

Mr.  Almon  was  very  familiarly  acquainted 
with  Mr.  Boyd's  common  hand-writing,  at 
the   time    of    the   original    publication    of 
yunius's  letters  ;  and  he  declares  that  at  that 
period  he  had  an  opportunity  of  feeing  the 
'  manufcript  of  Junius,    which  to  him  ap- 
peared 


158  LIFE  OF 

peared  to  have  a  ftrong  fimilitude  to  Mr. 
Boyd's  hand-writing  *. 

Mr.  T.  BURTON,  of  Gate-flreet,  Lin- 
coln's-inn-fields,  a  very  refpeclable  mafter- 
printer,  has  declared  to  me  in  the  prefence 
of  another  gentleman, — that  he  was  a  jour- 
neyman printer  in  Mr.  H.  S.  Woodfall's 
office,  at  the  time  of  the  original  publication 
of  Junius's  letters ;  that  he  was  one  of  the 
compofitors  employed  on  thofe  letters;  and 
that  he  ufed  frequently  to  remark  to  his 
fellow-journeymen,  how  much  the  hand- 
writing of  jfuniits  refembled  his  own; — and 
he  moreover  told  me,  that  if  he  faw  the 
hand-writing  again,  he  was  confident  he 
mould  know  it.  I  then  (hewed  him  fome 
of  Mr.  Boyd's  difgiiifed  hand-writing,  which 
he  inftantly  faid,  "  he  fincerely  believed  to 
"  be  the  fame  hand  as  the  manufcript  of 
"  Junius :;'  I  alfo  compared  Mr.  Burton's 
own  hand- writing  with  Mr.  Boyd's,  to  which 
it  certainly  bears  an  obvious  affinity.  Con- 
fidering  Mr.  Burton's  evidence  of  fome  im- 

,*  For  the  detail  of  this  evidence,  fe,e  Mr.  Almon's  firft 
letter  in  the  Appendix  to  the  Life. 

portance, 


HUGH    BOYD.  1/59 

portance,  I  have  examined  him  twice  very 
clofely  on  the  fubjecl:,  and  have  found  him 
perfectly  confident  and  accurate. 

The  evidence  of  Mr.  Almon,  and  Mr. 
Burton,  in  itfelf -very  flrong,  is  corroborated 
by  the  tcftimony  of  Woodfall's  foreman, 
who  fuperintended  the  printing  of  the  letters 
of  Junius,  and  v/ho  fays  he  has  a  perfecl  re- 
collection of  the  manufcript  of  thofe  letters, 
and  that  it  refembled  the  hand-writing  of 
Mr.  Boyd. 

Upon  the  whole,  therefore,  it  appears  clear, 
that  the  inanufcript  of  Junius  bore  fuch  a 
refemblance  to  Mr.  Boyd's  common  hand- 
writing, as  that  thofe,  but  thofe  only  *,  who 

were 

*  Mr.  William  Woocifall  has  publickly  declared,  "  that 
"  his  brother  Mr.  H.  S.  Woodtall  mewed  him  the  whole 
"  of  the  letters  of  Junius,\n  rnanufcript,  and  that  they  did 
"  not  bear  the  appearance  of  being  written  in  a  difguifed 
"  hand."  But  to  have  made  his  declaration  of  any  im- 
portance in  this  investigation,  he  mould  have  proved  that 
the  common  hand- writing  of  Mr.  Boyd  had  been  familiar 
to  him,  before  he  faw  that  of  Junius,  and  that  they  bore 
no  refemblance  to  each  other.  Now  the  facl  is,  that  Mr. 
IV.  Woodfall  knew  very  little  either  of  Mr.  Boyd,  or  his 
hand-writing  ;  and  that  he  is  confequently  incompetent  to 
determine,  whether  or  not  the  MSS.  of  Ju nius  was  Mr.  Boy d;s 

difguifed 


l6d  LIFE  OF 

were  very  familiarly  acquainted  with  the 
one,  would,  upon  an  examination  of  the 
other,  fufpeft  that  they  were  both  written 
by  the  fame  perfon.  And  the  evidence  of 
Mr.  Burton  of  itfelf  affords  a  flrong  proba- 
bility, that  the  letters  of  Junius  were  writ- 
ten in  Mr.  Boyd's  difguifed  hand. 

That  the  author  of  Junius  did  in  facl 
difguife  his  hand-writing,  muft  be  evident 
to  every  man  of  obfervation.  Would  a 
man  of  his  acknowledged  fagacity,  have 
voluntarily  placed  himfelf  at  the  mercy  of 
Mr.  Woodfall,  by  carrying  on  an  important 
correfpondence  with  him  in  his  ordinary 
hand-writing,  which  it  was  neceffary  for  his 
perfonal  fafety  to  conceal  ?  Would  a  per- 
fon fo  well  acquainted  with  mankind  as  he 
was,  have  put  fuch  implicit  confidence  in 
Mr.  Woodfall,  as  to  carry  on  that  corrc- 

difguifed  hand-writing.  His  declaration  then  only  proves, 
that  the  MSS.  of  Junius  refembleu  the  difguifed  hand  of 
Mr.  Boyd,  inafmuch  as  that  there  was  nothing  in  it  fo  pe- 
.  culiar  as  to  attract,  the  notice  even  of  a  perfon  who  was 
accuftomed  to  examine  different  manufcripts.  For  his  ex- 
preflion,  "  that  it  did  not  bear  the  appearance  of  If  ing  dif- 
"  guifed"  muft  mean,  that  the  hand-writing  in  queftion 
had  i\Q  ftrik'itjg  peculiarity. 

fpondence 


HUGH  BOYD.  l6l 

ipondence  in  the  fame  hand-writing  in  which 
he  tranfa&ed  his  private  bufmefs,  and  there- 
by to  furnifh  him  with  a  key  to  that  fecret 
which  it  was  his  avowed  intention  never  to 
divulge  ?  If  jfunius  had  written  his  let- 
ters in  his  common  hand,  would  he  not 
have  expofed  himfelf  to  unneceflary  ha- 
zard ?  By  writing  his  letters  in  his  common 
hand,,  would  he  not  have  run  a  great  rifque 
of  being  detected,  if  any  perfon  well  ac- 
quainted with  it  had  chanced  to  have  feen 
the  manufcript  of  jfunius,  or  if  Mr.  Wood- 
fall,  or  any  of  his  printers  had  chanced  to 
have  met  with  any  of  his  private  letters  or 
cards?  How  can  it  be  imagined,  that 
Junius  was  a  man  of  fo  little  forefight,  as 
to  run  thefe  rifques,  when,  by  difguifing  his 
hand- writing  he  could  completely  fecure 
himfelf  from  them,  and  even  from  being 
fufpecled  on  account  of  his  manufcript, — 
except  fome  one  fhould  chance  to  fee  it, 
to  whom  his  common  hand- writing  was  per- 
fe&ly  familiar  ? — Now  the  fa  ft  upon  this 
point,  fatisfaftorily  (hews,  that  the  author 
of  Juwus  would  certainly  have  laid  him- 
felf open  to  detection,  if  by  writing  his  letters 
VOL.  i.  I  in 


LIFE  OF 

in  his  common  hand,  he  had  imprudently 
relied  on  the  caution  and  fecrecy  of  Mr. 
Woodfall  :  For,  Mr.  Woodfall  not  only 
made  a  practice  of  {hewing  the  manufcript 
of  J-utnius  to  his  brother,  and  fome  other 
of  his  friends,  but  alfo  of  reading  it,  before 
publication,  to  people  with  whom  he  was 
very  flight Jy  acquainted :  and  in  one  in- 
ftance  in  particular,  he  took  one  of  Juni- 
us's  letters  from  his  pocket,  which  he  faid 
he  hadjujt  received,  and  placing  it  on  the  ta- 
ble of  a  tavern,  at  a  meeting  compqfed  of 
Bookfcllers,  and  Printers  of  News-papers, 
read  it  aloud  to  the  company  *. 

The  laft  evidence  which  I  {hall  bring 
forward,  is  that  of  Mr.  Henry  Sampfon 
Woodfall  himfelf ;  as  his  negative  tejlimony 
tn  this  queftion,  is  not  wholly  unworthy  of 
obfervation. 

I  have  already  itated,  that  Mr.  H.  S. 
Woodfall  has  permitted  his  brother  to  con- 
iefs  for  him,  t/uit  he  never  did,  nor  does  not 
now,  know  -who  in  reality  was  the  author  of 
Junius-,  that  it  appears,  he  at  one  time  fuf- 


*  See  this  circumftatKe  detailed,  and  its  truth  eflablifh- 

| 

peeled 


rd  in  Mr.  Almon's  firft  lertpr  in  the  Appendix. 


HUGH  BOYD.  163 

peeled  Mr.  Boyd  to  be  that  very  perfon; 
and  that  he  has  now  an  evident  intereft  in 
concealing  his  fufpicions  from  the  world. 
Thefe  are  facls  unqueflionable;  and  which, 
therefore,  I  have  too  great  a  refpecl  for 
Mr.  H.  S.  Woodfalis  charafter,  to  fuppofe 
he  would  upon  his  honour  deny. 

In  the  beginning  of  May  1798,  I  wrote 
to  Mr.  H.  S.  Woodfall,  informing  him,  that 
I  was  authorized  by  Mrs.  Boyd,  to  collect 
and  publifh  Mr.  Boyd's  political  writings, 
and  that  I  fhould  therefore  be  greatly 
obliged  to  him,  for  his  opinion  with  regard 
to  Mr.  Almon's  affertion  that  Mr.  Boyd 
was  the  real  author  of  Junius.  To  this  re- 
queft  I  received  no  written  anfwer;  but  in 
the  courfe  of  a  few  days  Mr.  H.  S.  Wood- 
fall  called  at  my  apartments  in  Leicefter- 
fquare,  when  I  chanced  to  be  from  home. 
I  then  called  on  him  at  his  houfe  at  Chel- 
fea,  when  he  diitin&ly  told  me  in  the  pre- 
fence  of  Mr.  William  Woodfall  and  a 
young  lady,  "  that  he  did  not  believe 
"  Mr.  Boyd  was  the  author  of  Junius  -% 
"  although  he  was  certainly  a  man  of  great 
"  abilities:'  I  afked  him,  if  Mr.  Boyd  had 
/  2  at 


164  LIFE   OF 

at  any  time  fent  letters  to  the  Publick  Ad- 
vcrtifcr?  He  replied  "  that  Mr.  Boyd  had 
"  fent  him  feveral  communications  on  the 
"  affairs  of  India,  in  1776,  or  1777;  but 
"  that  he  did  not  recollett  he  had  ever  fent 
"  him  any  Letters  for  the  Publick  Advertijer. 
"  before  thofe  years,  or  that  he  had  ever  writ- 
"  ten  on  any  other  fubj efts,  than  fuch  as  re- 
tf  lated  to  India."  To  this  I  made  no  an- 
fwer ;  but  proceeded  to  afk  him,  if  he  had 
preferved  any  of  the  manufcript  vtjunius? 
He  faid  he  had  not.  I  afked  him,  if  he 
thought  Mr.  W.  G.  Hamilton  was  the  au- 
thor ofjunius  f  He  faid,  "  No,  mojt  ajffur- 
"  edly  HE  was  not;  and  as  to  the  ftory  about 
"  Hamilton  quoting  Junius  to  the  Duke 
"  of  Richmond,  he  knew  it  to  be  a  mifcon- 
. "  ception." — Such  was  the  firft  converfation 
I  had  with  Mr.  H.  S.  Woodfall  refpeQing 
Mr.  Boyd ;  and  I  have  related  it  verbatim,  as 
I  took  it  down  on  paper  a  few  minutes  af- 
ter I  left  his  houfe. 

Nothing  further  palled  between  us,  till 
the  beginning  of  March  1799,  when  I 
again  wrote  to  Mr.  H.  S.  Woodfall,  telling 
him,  that  as  I  knew  it  to  be  a  fa6l,  that  Mr. 

,  Boyd 


HUGH   BO  YD.  165 

Boyd  had  kept  up  a  conftaht  and  uninter- 
rupted correfpondence  with  the  Publick  Ad- 
vertifer  from  January  1769,  till  the  fpring 
of  1772,  and  that  as  I  was  authorized  by 
Mrs.  Boyd  to  requeft  he  would  point  out 
any  one  of  the  numerous  letters  which  Mr. 
Boyd  had  tranfmitted  to  him  during  that 
period,  I  begged  he  would  favour  me  by 
doing  fo.  He  returned  a  polite  verbal  an- 
fwer  by  my  fervant,  faying  I  might  rely  on 
hearing  from  him  in  the  courfe  of  ten  days. 
After  having  waited  upwards  of  two 
months  for  his  anfwer,  I  called  on  him  on 
the  loth  of  May  1799,  at  his  houfe  at 
Chelfea,  in  company  with  a  friend  of  mine, 
whom  I  had  purpofely  brought  along  with 
me,  and  upon  whofe  accuracy  in  recollect- 
ing what  mould  pafs  between  Mr.  Wood- 
fall  and  me,  I  could  place  the  mod  implicit 
reliance. 

We  found  Mr.  Woodfall  alone:  he  feern- 
ed  not  a  little  difconcerted  at  our  vifit;  and 
immediately  told  me  "  that  he  could  recol- 
"  left  nothing  whatever,  of  any  letters  fent 
"  by  Mr.  Boyd  to  him,  during  the  years 
"1769,  1770,  1771,  and  part  of  1772  ; 

that 


j66 

"  that  Mr.  Boyd  was  unquejlionably  a  very 
t(  able  writer,  though  at  the  fame  time  he 
"  could  not  give  in  to  the  idea  of  his  hav- 
"  ing  written  the  letters  of  Junius"  I 
waved  the  dire  ft  queftion  about  Junius, 
and  told  him  "  I  only  wifhed  him  to  point 
st  out  to  me  any  one  of  the  letters  which 
"  Mr.  Boyd  fent  to  him  in  the  courfe  of 
"  the  years  above  mentioned."  He  repeat- 
ed, "  that  he  had  no  recollection  whatever  of 
"  any  fuch  letters"  We  then  withdrew, 
fully  fatisfied  that  Woodfall  had  more 
knowledge  of  the  letters  I  inquired  for, 
than  he  chofe  to  avow. 

Thus  then  Mr.  H,  S.  Woodfall  declines 
to  give  any  account  whatever  of , that  Jong 
and  clofe  correfpondence  between  him  and 
Mr.  Boydj  which  I  have  incontrovertibly 
proved  to  have  commenced  and  ended  pre- 
cifeiy  at  the  fame  points  of  time,  with  that 
which  fubfifled  between  him  and  Junius. 
Mr.  Woodfall  has  indeed  permitted  his  bro- 
ther to  declare  for  him  *,  "  That  it  is  con- 
trary to  all  cuilom  to  break  into  the  confi- 

*  See  Mr.  William  Woodfall's  letter,  in  the  Morning 
Chronicle,  of  the  i6th  of  Auguft  1799. 

dential 


HUGH  BOYD.  l? 

dential fecrecy  of  a  News- pa  per  printer;  and 
that  I  ought  not  therefore  to  be  furprifed, 
that  he  never  anfwered  queftions,  the  avow- 
ed  object  of  which  was,  to  invite  him  to  be- 
tray  the  confidence  Mr,  Boyd  had  placed  in 
fern."— What  is  this  but  a  pretty  plain  ad- 
miffion  of  the  faft,  that  the  letters  which  he 
thinks  (Mr.  H.  S.  Woodfall  has  faid  he  did 
not  know  that  Mr.  Boyd  had  written  for  the 
Publick  Advertifer  before  1776)  Mr,  Boyd 
wrote  during  the  years  1769,  1770,  I77l> 
and  part  of  1772,  and  which  appeared  in 
the  PMick  Advertifer,  in  thofe  years,  were 
not  intended  by  him  to  be  acknowledged 
as  his  own  produ&ions,  and  that  he  (Mr. 
Woodfall)  confiders  it  would  be  betraying 
the  confidence  repofed  in  him,  to  point  out 
to  the  public k  the  letters  in  queftion. 
This  conduct  on  the  part  of  Mr.  H.  S. 
Woodfall  I  am  not  at  all  difpofed  to  blame. 
I  am  fure  I  did  not  wifh  him  to  deviate 
from  what  he  conceived  to  be  his  duty, 
much  lefs  to  betray  any  thing  which  he 
thought  himfelf  bound  to  conceal.  I  knew 
he  had  very  fujficient  motives  for  being  re- 
ferved  with  refpe6l  to  the  author  of  Junius, 

and 


l68  LIFE   OF 

and  I  did  not,  therefore,  imagine  he  would 
ha\e  told  me  the  purport  of  that  feries  of 
letters  which  were  fecretly  tranfmitted  to 
him  in  the  above  mentioned  years,  more 
efpecially  when  I  affured  him,  that  there 
was  pqfitive  evidence  of  Mr.  Boyd  having 
written  them.  In  truth,  Mr.  H.  S.  Wood- 
fall  has  acknowledged  as  much  concerning 
them  as  I  expe&ed,  if  not  as  much  as  I 
could  have  defired;  and  his  acknowledge- 
ments, together  with  Mrs.  Boyd's  evidence, 
have  brought  the  general  queftion  within  a 
very  narrow  compafs.  For,  as  it  is  now 
afcertained  beyond  all  doubt,  that  Mr. 
Boyd  wrote  a  continued  feries  of  letters, 
with  the  greateft  poflible  fecreey,  for  the 
Pub/id  Advertifer,  during  the  years  1769, 
1770,  1771,  and  part  of  1772,  it  remains 
only  to  determine  what  thofe  letters  were, 
and  under  what  fignatures  they  appeared. 
Now  the  fa6l  is,  that  there  was  no  other  wri- 
ter but  Junius,  who  fent  gratuitous  contri- 
butions to  the  Publick  Advertifer  uninter- 
ruptedly and  fecretly  during  the  whole  of 
thofe  three  fucceffive  years.  How  this  facl 
came  to  my  knowledge  it  is  no  way  necef- 

fary 


HUGHBOYD.  169 

iary  to  inform  the  publick,  becaufe  Mr.  H. 
S.  Woodfall  will  not— cannot,  IN  TRUTH, 
deny  it.  As  Junius,  therefore,  was  the  only 
writ  r  who  fent  letters  to  the  Publick  Ad- 
ver  lifer  within  the  period  of  time  above 
ftated,  and  according  to  the  manner  herein 
defcribed;  and  as  it  has  been  proved  that 
Mr.  Boyd  did  conftantly  fend  letters  to  the 
Publick  Advertifer,  during  the  whole  of  that 
time,  and  exactly  according  to  that  manner, 
it  inevitably  follows,  that  the  letters  which 
Mr.  Boyd  tranfmitted  to  that  paper,  in  the 
courfe  of  that  time,  were  thofe  very  letters 
which  then  appeared  in  it,  under  the  figna- 
tures  of  Junius  and  Philo- Junius,  of  Lucius 
and  Brutus. 

Such  then  is  the  detail  of  the  whole  of 
the  evidence  in  this  inveftigation.  Let  the 
reader  weigh  well  the  fafts  that  have  been 
eftablifhed.  In  one  view,  let  it  be  confi- 
dered  that  Mr.  Boyd  was  perfectly  qualified 
in  every  refpecl  to  have  been  the  writer  of 
the  letters  of  Junius  ;— that  his  avowed  po- 
litical writings  bear  fo  ftriking  a  fimilitude 
to  thofe  letters,  not  only  in  the  principles 
they  inculcate,  in  the  opinions  they  fupport, 

and 


LIFE    OF 

and  in  the  characters  they  praife  or  cenfure, 
but  alfo  in  the  energy  and  elegance  of  their 
ftyle,  and  in  the  flrength  and  refinement  of 
their  fpirit — that  it  muft  be  prefumed  they 
are  the  compofitions  of  the  fame  mind; — 
'that  his  motives  in  writing  the  letters  of 
Junius,  and  in  concealing  from  the  world 
that  he  was  the  author  of  them,  were  per- 
fectly confident  with  the  political  principles 
he  profefied,  as  well  as  with  the  political 
connexions  he  had  formed ; — that  he  actu- 
ally kept  up  an  uninterrupted  correfpon- 
dence  with  the  Pub  lick  Advertifcr  during 
the  three  fucceflive  years  that  Junius  wrote 
for  that  paper;— that  he  carried  on  that 
correfpondence  with  the  moft  impenetrable 
fecrecy  ; — that  the  letters  which  he  fent  to 
the  Publick  Advertifcr  were  fuperfcribed  in 
a  difguifed  hand,  and  were  conveyed  to  Mr. 
H.  S.  Woodfall's  office  often  by  Mrs.  Boyd 
herfelf,  and  always  with  the  moft  extraor- 
dinary degree  of  caution ; — that  he  at  all 
times  manifefted  to  Mrs.  Boyd,  but  to  her 
only,  an  intereft  and  anxiety  about  the  let- 
ters of  Junius,  which  no  one  but  the  author 
of  them  can  be  fuppofed  to  have  felt ; — that 

often, 


HUGH  BOYD.  1J I 

often,  when  Mrs.  Boyd  told  him,  (he  ftrong- 
ly  fufpefted  he  was  Junius,   he  invariably 
evaded  the  queftion ; — that  when  it  was  re- 
ported  in   a  publick   paper,   that   he   was 
Junius,  though  he  knew  that  fuch  a  report 
might  very  materially  injure  his  profpefts 
in  life,  and  though  Mrs.  Boyd  mod  earneftly 
urged  him  to  contradicl  it,  he  never  took 
the  fmalleft  notice  of  it,  and  obferved  the 
moft  cautious  filence  with  regard  to  all  Oie 
fa  id  on  the  fubjecl.      In  addition  to  thefe 
ftrong   prefumptive   proofs,   let   it  allo   be 
confidered,    that  the   refemblance  between 
Mr.  Boyd's  difguifed  and   common  hand- 
writing, though  not  difcernible  by  perfons 
who  were  little  acquainted  with  them,  was 
perfectly  obvious  to  thofe  to  whom  either 
the  one  or  the  other  was  familiar;  that  Mr. 
Almon,  who  was  in  the  confront  habit  of  fee- 
ing Mr.  Boyd's  common  hand-writing,  and 
who  faw  the  manufcript.  of  Junius 3  pofitively 
declares  there  was  a  ftrong  fimilkude  be- 
tween them ;    that  on  the  other  hand,   the 
perfon  who  fuperintended   the  printing  of 
the  letters  of  Junius,  who  was  confequently 
familiarized  with  the  hand  in  which  they 

were 


172  LIFE  o 't- 

were written,  and  to  whom  Mr.  Boyd's  com- 
mon hand-writing  has  been  (hewn,  declares 
there  is  a  ftriking  likenefs  between  them  ; — 
that  a  refpe&able  printer,  who  was  employed 
in  printing  the  letters  ot  Junius,  declares  that 
the  manufcript  of  thofe  letters,  and  the  dif- 
guifed  hand  of  Mr.  Boyd  appear  to  him  to 
have  been  written  by  the  fame  perfon :  but 
above  all  let  it  be  confidered,  that  Mr. 
Boyd  mujl  in  faEl  have  written,  that  anec- 
dote related  by  Junius  refpecling  Lord 
Irnham; — that  he  in  fa6l  commenced  and 
ended  his  correfpondence  with  the  Publick 
Advertifer,  which  he  carried  on  with  fuck 
fecrecy,  and  without  interruption,  precifely  at 
the  fame  points  offline  at  which  Junius  began 
and  ceafed  to  write  for  that  paper ;  and 
finally  as  Junius  was  in  faff  the  only  writer 
who  wrote  for  the  Publick  Adver  lifer,  fecretly 
and  uninterruptedly,  during  the  whole  of  the. 
period  thai  has  been  Jlated,  Mr.  Boyd  and 
Junius  muft  confequently  have  been  one 
and  the  fame  perfon.  Let  all  thefe  fafts 
be  duly  weighed,  and  let  the  reader  bear  in 
mind  the  evidence  that  has  been  adduced, 
as  well  as  the  arguments  that  have  been 
3  urged 


HUGH    BOYD,  173 

urged  in  fupport  of  them,  together  with  the 
declaration  of  Junius,  that  he  was  thejb/e 
depojitory  of  his  ownjtcret,  and  that  itJJwuld 
perijh  with  him,  and  with  the  confeffion  of 
Mr.  H.  S.  Woodfall,  that  he  does  not  know 
who  Junius  was,  and  with  the  facl:  that  no 
well-founded  objection  has  been  made  to 
the  affertion  that  Mr.  Boyd  was  the  un- 
doubted author  of  Junius,  although  two 
years  have  now  elapfed  fince  it  was  firft 
broached  ;  and  laftly,  with  the  equally  im- 
portant facl;,  that  all  the  other  perfons  to 
whom  the  letters  of  Junius  have  been  attri- 
buted, are  now  dead,  and  that  not  a  fingle 
circumftance  has  come  to  light,  to  juftify  the 
furmifes  upon  which  the  belief  of  their 
having  written  Junius  altogether  refted. 
Let  the  whole  be  calmly  and  maturely  taken 
into  the  reader's  view,  and  I  confidently 
truft  that  he  will  pronounce  with  me,  that 
HUGH  BOYD,  AND  HUGH  BOYD  ONLY, 
WAS  THE  REAL  AUTHOR  OF  JUNIUS. 

It  remains,  to  fay  a  few  words  relative  to 
thofe' to  whom  the  letters- of  Junius  have 
at  different  times  been  afcribed ;  in  order 
to  (hew  that  the  fuppofitions  which  have 

been 


174  LIf£  OF 

been  entertained  as  to  their  having  written 
thofe  letters,  are  not  only  unfupported  by 
any  onefaft,  but  are,  in  truth,  highly  im- 
probable. 

Were  I  to  enumerate  all  the  perfons 
whom  vague  conje&ure  has  occafionally 
named,  as  the  probable  authors  of  Junius, 
I  mould  fill,  at  leaft,  a  couple  of  pages  to 
very  little  purpofe.  I  {hall,  therefore,  con- 
fine myfelf  to  thofe  only,  whofe  talents, 
opinions,  and  connexions,  gave  a  plaufible 
colour  to  the  rumours,  that  they  had  writ- 
ten the  letters  of  Junius. 

Thofe  letters  have  been  attributed  to 
Lord  Sackville,  to  Lord  George  Germain, 
to  Mr.  John  Dunning,  to  Mr.  Richard 
Burke,  to  Mr.  W.  G.  Hamilton,  to  Mr. 
Edmund  Burke,  and,  by  a  few  people,  to 
the  learned  Mr.  Samuel  Dyer.  Of  thefe 
gentlemen,  the  three  lad  mentioned  are 
the  only  ones  refpecting  whom  I  conceive 
it  neceflkry  to  make  any  obfervation. 

Mr.  W.  G.  Hamilton  was  unqueflionably 
a  man  of  confiderable  abilities,  nor  do  I 
doubt,  that  he  was  fully  capable  of  writing 
the  letters  of  Junius,  and  I  know  his  poli- 
tical 


HUGH   BOYD.  175 

tical  principles  and  opinions  differed  very 
little  from  thofe  which  they  invariaby  main- 
tain. But  the  only  circumftance  which 
gave  rife  to  the  fuppofition  of  his  being 
Junius,  was  his  having  quoted,  in  conver- 
fation  with  the  Duke  of  Richmond,  a  paf- 
fage  from  one  of  Juniuss  letters,  before  it 
appeared  in  the  Pub  lick  Advertifer.  For  the 
exaft  truth  of  this  circumftance  I  cannot 
take  it  upon  me  to  vouch.  I  have,  how- 
ever, good  reafon  to  believe,  that  Mr.  Ha- 
milton had  more  than  once  heard  a  letter  of 
yunius's  read  to  him  before  it  was  publifhed, 
which  furficiently  explains  the  feeming  myf- 
tery,  refpe&ing  the  quotation  he  made  to  the 
Duke  of  Richmond.  Thofe  who  may  not 
be  fatisfied  with  this  explanation,  will  at  lead 
give  credit  to  Mr.  Hamilton's  own  words ; 
and  it  is  a  pofitive  facl,  that  \\zfolcmnly  de- 
clared on  his  death-bed, — "  That  he  was  not 
"  the  author  ofjunius" 

With  regard  to  the  fuppofition  that  Mr, 
Burke  was  Junius,  it  would  be  needlefs  to 
fay  much.  A  thorough  knowledge  of  the 
chara&eriftick  qualities  of  his  great  mindr 
and  of  his  incomparable  writings,  as  well  as 

of 


176  LIFE   OF 

of  thofe  of  the  letters  of  Junius,  were  alone 
fufficient  to  convince  every  judicious  reader, 
that  he  was  not  the  writer  of  thofe  perform- 
ances. Of  Mr.'Burke's  unrivalled  talents,  it 
has  been  well  obferved  by  the  moft  eloquent 
philofopher,  and  one  of  the  firft  writers  of 
the  prefent  day,  that  he  was  "  a  writer  who 
ft  was  admired  by  all  mankind  for  his  elo- 
"  quence,  but  who  is,  if  poffible,  ftill  more 
"  admired  by  all  competent  judges  for  his 
<e  philofophy  ;  a  writer  of  whom  I  may  juft- 
"  ly  fay,  that  he  was  GRAVISSIMUS  ET  DE- 

"  CENDI   ET    INTELLIGENDI   AUCTOR   ET 

<e  MAGISTER  *."  This  character  may  with 
perfect  truth  be  given  to  every  thing  that 
Mr.  Burke  has  written.  Throughout  all 
his  various  productions,  the  fober  dignity 
of  true  philofophy  prevails  over  every  other 
excellence,  brightening  the  dried  details 
with  the  clear  light  of  reafon,  and  controul- 
ing  the  loftieft  flights  of  imagination  with 
the  fovereign  majefly  of  wifdom.  Junius, 
though  often  grave,  is  never  profound: 

*  See  Mr.  MACKINTOSH'S  admirable  Difcourfe  on  the 
Study  of  the  L:ny  of  Nature  and  Nations,  introduftory 
to  a  courfe  of  leisures  on  that  fcience. 

though 


HUGH    BOYD. 


though  he  often  prefents  moral  and  politi- 
cal truths  in  the  moft  alluring  drefs,  he 
never  examines  their  «flence;  though  his 
precepts  are  often  wife^  his  fentiments  noble, 
and  his  obfervations  acute,  he  never  pene- 
trates beyond  the  furface  of  things:  his  pre- 
vailing excellencies  are  the  precifion  and 
clearnefs  of  his  reafoning,  the  vigour,  pun- 
gency, and  terfenefs  of  his  ftyle.  In  his 
argument  he  always  confines  himfelf  to  the 
point  at  i/uie,  and  even  in  his  declamations 
he  feldom  digrefles.  Whereas  Mr*  Burke 
never  wrote  on  any  fubjecl  whatever,  with- 
out fearching  it  to  the  bottom,  examining  it 
thoroughly  in  all  its  minuted  bearings,  and 
finally  tracing  it  to  its  remotefl  confe- 
quences.  It  may  indeed  be  faid,  that  Mr. 
Burke  could  have  reftrained  the  natural 
bent  of  his  genius,  and  that  he  poffibly 
thought  popular  letters,  like  thofe  of  Jy,niust 
fhould  touch  only  upon  thofe  fimple  and 
obvious  principles  by  which  men  are  actu- 
ated in  common  life,  and  fhould  therefore 
be  addreffed  to  the  heart  and  the  afFe&ions., 
rather  than  to  the  underftanding.  That  he 
could  have  adopted  any  ftyle  and  manner  he 
VOL.  i.  m  thought 


178  LIFE  OF 

thought  proper,  his  admirable  imitation  of 
Bolingbroke  very  fufficiently  proves ;  but 
that  he  (hould  have  "  laboured "  inceflantly* 
for  three  whole  years  to  write  letters  of  a 
fort  fo  different  from  his  other  productions, 
as  well  as  fo  inferior  to  them,  in  point  of 
genuine  and  fubftantial  merit,  and  that  at  a 
time  when  he  had  fuch  a  multiplicity  of 
important  concerns  to  attend  to,  appears  to 
me  fo  very  improbable,  that,  I  confefs,  I  am 
fomewhat  furprifed  that  his  friends  mould 
ever  have  given  the  final  left  degree  of  cre- 
dit to  the  report ;  more  efpecially  as  the 
opinion  ofjfunius  on  two  material  queftions, 
was  totally  different  from  that  which  Mr. 
Burke  and  the  Rockingham  party  firenu- 
oufly  fupportedt. 

If  any  thing  be  yet  wanting  to  fhew  the 
improbability  of  Mr.  Burke  having  written 

*  I  have  already  (hewn,  that  Junius  himfelf  acknow- 
ledges the  labour  which  the  composition  of  his  letters  had 
coft  him. 

t  Mr.  Burke  was,  throughout  his  whole  life,  a  decided 
and  firm  fupporter  of  the  feptennial  aft ; — whereas  Jmim 
was  a  zealous  advocate  for  triennial  parliaments.  Mr. 
Grenville's  Colonial  Laws  were  approved  of  by  Juniust 
butfevenly  condemned  by  Mr,  Burke. 

the 


HUGH   BOYD.  179 

the  letters  of  Junius,  let  it  be  recollefted 
that  he  himfelf  fpontaneoufly  declared  to 
Doftor  Johnfon,  "  that  he  had  no  concern 
•"  whatever  in  thofe  letters  *." 

The  conjecture  that  Mr.  Samuel  Dyer 
was  the  writer  of  Junius 's  letters,  is,  I  think, 
flill  lefs  plaufible  than  that  which  has  been 
entertained  refpecling  Mr.  Hamilton  or  Mr. 
Burke. 

*  Mr.  Dyer  was  a  citizen  of  London.  He 
was  the  fon  of  a  refpeclable  jeweller  in 
Cheapfide,  who  having  acquired  a  compe- 
tent fortune,  liberally  employed  it  in  the 
education  of  his  children.  The  father  be- 
ing himfelf  a  zealous  diffenter,  intended  his 
fon  Samuel  for  the  difTenting  miniftry ;  and 
for  that  purpofe  placed  him  at  Dr.  Dod- 
deridge's  academy  at  Northampton:  He 
was  afterwards  fent  to  the  college  of  Glaf- 
gow  under  the  immediate  care  of  the  cele- 
brated Dr.  Hutchefon,  and  he  completed 
his  ftudies  at  Leyden,  under  the  famous 
Schultens. 

Mr,  Dyer  was  eminently  qualified  to 
fliine  in  the  profeflion  for  which  his  father 

t  See  BofwcH's  Life  of  Johnfon. 

m  2  intended 


180  LIFE    OF 

intended  him ;  but  having  in  the  courfe  of 
hjs  phiiofophical  purfuits,  become  a  fcep- 
tick  in  religion,  he  relinquifhed  all  thoughts 
of  afcending  the  pulpit,  and  launched  at 
once  into  all  the  pleafures  and  diffipa- 
tions  of  London.  Being,  however,  a  man 
of ,  great  talents,  and  of  very  extenfive 
learning,  as  well  as  of  a  refined  tafle  in  lite- 
rature, he  negle&ed  not  to  cultivate  the  ac- 
quaintance of  thofe  whofe  minds  were  con- 
genial to  his  own.  He  foon.  became 
known  to  Doctor  Johnfon,  Mr.  Burke,  and 
Sir  Jofhua  Reynolds,  with  the  former  of 
whom,  he  lived  for  fome  years  on  terms  of 
great  intimacy;  and  it  is  related  by  Haw- 
kins and  Bofwell,  that  the  Doftor  always 
looked  up  to  him,  on  phiiofophical  fub- 
je6ls*.  He  feems  to  have  been  cpnfidered 
by  Johnfcn  as  a  profound  metaphyfician, 
an4  as  a  man  deeply  read  in  every  branch 

*  Johfiforr,  in  his  Life  of  Watts,  quotes  the  opinion  of 
Mr.  Dyer,  refpetllng  Watts's  mtftaphyfical  difquifitions. 
"  It  was  obferved,"  fays  he, — "  by  the  late  learned  Mr. 
"  Dyer>;that  Wat;s  confounded  the  idea  otfpace  with  thai 
<{  of  empty  /pace,  and  did  not  conficlcr  that,  though  fpace 
"  might  be  without  matter,  yet  matter  being  extended 
*'  could  not  b^,^th£[u^fgace." 

of 


HUGH    BOVD.  l8l 

of  fcholaflick  knowledge ;  and  it  is  obferv- 
ed  by  Hawkins,  "  that  he  eonverfed  very 
"  ably  on  moft  topics."  But  his  abilities 
were  rendered  ufelefs  to  himfelf  and  to  the 
world  by  an  habitual  indoknce,  which  his 
diflipated  courfe  of  life  originally  brought 
on,  in  which  it  was  his  delight  to  indulge, 
and  which  neither  the  felicitations  of 
friendihip,  nor  the  calls  of  poverty  could 
induce  him'  to  ufe1  any  endeavours  to  con- 
quer. The  fmall  patrimony  which  his  fa- 
ther had  left  hinl,  being  inefficient  to  fup- 
port  his  expences,  he  was  reduced  to  the 
greateft  diftrefs ;  and  Johnfon,  in  order  to 
procure  him  fome  relief,  ftrongly  prefled* 
him  to  write  the  Life  of  Erafmus,  but  all 
his  perfuafions  were  of  no  avail,  he  would 
not  undertake  it.  He  was,  however,  at  laft 
prevailed  on  to  revife  the  old  tranflation  of 
Plutarch's  Lives,  which  he  executed  after 
mafcy  heavy  complaints  of  the  labour  of 
the  taik,  and  for  which  he  received  from 
Draper,  the  partner  of  Tonfon,  the  fum  of 

*  See  Hawkins's  Life  of  Johnfon,  from  which  the 
greateft  part  of  my  information  refpetiing  Mr.  Dyer  is 
derived. 

two 


LIFE  OF 

two  hundred  pounds.  By  the  death  of  his 
mother  he  became  pofleffed  of  Soool.  which 
he  inverted  in  India  flock ;  and  offered  him- 
felf  as  a  candidate  for  a  feat  in  the  court  of 
Directors.  But  his  profperity  was  fhort- 
lived.  He  entered  into  engagements  for 
the  purchafe  and  fale  of  flock ;  and  from 
his  total  ignorance  of  bufmefs,  he  at  once 
injured  his  reputation  and  loft  the  whole  of 
his  property.  This  difafter  he  did  not 
long  furvive;  and  he  died  in  the  utmofl  in- 
digence, ' '  leaving  not/'  fays  Hawkins,  "  in 
"  money  or  effects  fufficient  to  defray  the 
"  expence  of  a  decent  funeral." 

How  a  perfon  of  this  defcription,  whom 
the  flrongeft  pofllble  incitements  could 
never  prevail  upon  to  write  any  thing  but 
a  fhort  Preface  to  a  tranflation  of  Plu- 
tarch's Lives,  mould  have  been  fufpefted 
of  having  written  the  letters  of  Jumusy 
might  feem  a  little  flrange,  if  we  did  not 
know  from  what  very  flight  and  trivial  cir- 
cumflances,  fufpicions  of  this  nature  arife. 
I  underfland,  however,  that  Sir  Jofhua  Rey- 
nolds fuppofed  Mr.  Dyer  to  have  been 
Junius,  becaufe  he  heard  Mr.  Dyer  and 

Mr. 


HUGH    BOYD.  183 

Mr.  Burke  make  the  fame  remarks  in  con- 
verfation,    which    he   afterwards  found  in 
Junius's  letters;  becaufe  Mr.  Dyer's  death 
happened  a  few  months  fubfequent  to  the 
period  at  which  Junius  ceafed  to  fend  let- 
ters   to    Mr.  Woodfall ;    and  becaufe  Mr. 
Richard  Burke  went  in  great  hafte  to  Mr. 
Dyer's  apartments,  the  inftant  he  heard  of 
his  death,  and  requefled  as  a  very  particular 
favour  of  his  executors,  that  he  might  be 
permitted  to  deftroy  a  fealed  box  of  papers 
belonging  to  the  deceafed,  which  he  faid 
was  of  the  utmoft  importance  to  him,  but 
could  be  of  no  fervice  to  any  one  elfe.     As 
thefe    circum  fiances    were   related    to   me, 
merely  on  report,  I  cannot  pretend  to  fay 
whether  they  are  authentic  or  not ;   but  if 
they  had  any  influence  with  Sir  Jofhua,  he 
muft  furely  have  been  unacquainted  with 
the  true  character  of  Mr.  Dyer,  which  pre- 
cludes the  belief  of  Mr.  Burke  and  his  bro- 
ther having  connected  themfelves  with  him 
in  a  literary  undertaking,  which  required 
fuch  unremitting  attention,  as  that  of  the 
letters  of  Junius. 

I  hope 


JLIFE    OF 

I  hope  the  reader  is  fully  fatisfied,  that 
neither  Mr.  W.  G.  Hamilton,  Mr.  Edmund 
Burke,  nor  Mr.  Samuel  Dyer,  had  any  con- 
cern whatever,  in  compofing  the  letters  of 
Junius\  and  that  the  faft  of  HUGH  Bo  YD 
having  been  the  true  and  only  author  of 
thofe  productions,  will  by  confequence  ap- 
pear the  more  evident.  And  I  now  clofe 
this  inveftigation,  with  the  entire  confciouf- 
nefs  that  every  part  of  the  evidence  which 
I  have  brought  forward,  is  founded  in  the 
ftr-icleft  veracity  ;  and  with  the  firm  convic- 
tion, that  the  fafts  eftablimed  by  that  evi- 
dence will  bear  me  out  in  the  conclufion  I 
have  drawn. 


IT  has  been  already  mentioned  that  Mr. 
Boyd  took  a  houfe  at  Kenton- Green,  near 
Harrow,  in  the  fummer  of  1771.  At  this 
place  he  refided  for  upwards  of  five  years, 
both  with  a  view  to  avoid  the  expences  of 
a  town  life,  and  to  be  near  the  fons  of  a 
deceafed  fifter,  who  were,  during  that  pe- 
riod, at  Harrow  fchool.  For  thefe  youths 

he 


HUGH   BOYD.  185 

he  fhewed  all  the  tendernefs,  anxiety,  and 
provident  care  of  a  father.  He  never 
miffed  an  opportunity  of  having  them  at 
his  table,  when  he  had  company  calculated 
either  to  improve  their  minds,  or  to  afford 
them  innocent  amuiement :  and  he  was  par- 
ticularly attentive,  in  preventing  them  from 
coming  to  his  houfe,  when  he  had  parties' 
with  him  who  were  either  too  jovial  in 
their  pleasures,  or  too  free  in  their  conver- 
fation, — forgetting  not  the  admonition  of 
JUVENAL — 

Nif  diftu  fcedum>   vifuque  hart  limina  tangat, 

Intra  quae  puer  eft.-! 

Maxima  debetur  puero  reverentiak 

Some  months  after  the  letters  of  Junius 
were  publifhed  collectively,  Boyd  met  Sir 
William  Draper  at  the  tennis-court,  where 
their  acquaintance  was  originally  formed  in 
the  year  1769,  and  where  (being  both  great 
tennis-players)  they  ufed  often  to  meet,  the 
converfation  turjning  upon  Junius,  Sir  Wil- 
liam obferved,  "  that  though  Junius  had 
"  treated  him  with  extreme  feverity,  he  now 
"  leaked  upon  him  as  a  very  honeft  fellow, 
<e  — that  he  freely  forgave  him  for  the  bitter- 
i  nefs 


i86  LIFE  OF 

"  nefs  of  his  cenfures,  and  that  there  was  no 
"  man  with  whom  he  would  more  gladly 
"  drink  a  bottle  of  old  Burgundy  *."  Boyd 
took  no  notice  of  the  obfervation ;  but  after 
playing  at  tennis  till  a  late  hour,  he  pro- 
pofed  to  Sir  William,  that  they  mould  dine 
together  at  a  favourite  tavern.  The  Knight 
readily  confented  to  the  propofal ;  and  he 
enjoyed  his  Burgundy,  while  Boyd  had  the 
inward  fatisfa&ion  of  doing  juflice  to  his 
candour,  as  well  as  to  his  wifhes. 

Mr.  Boyd  at  this  time  ufed  to  be  much 
in  the  fociety  of  Armftrong  and  Goldfmith, 
efpecially  with  the  latter,  whofe  ill  ftate  of 
health  had  induced  him  to  take  a  country 
lodging  at  the  Hide,  on  the  Edgware-road, 
about  three  miles  diftant  from  Kenton- 
Green.  Goldfmith  often  walked  acrofs  the 
fields  to  Mr.  Boyd's,  and  would  pafs  feveral 
days  with  him.  Their  converfation,  as  may 
be  readily  expefted,  was  always  on  literary 
and  critical  topicks  ;  and  Goldfmith  ufed  to 
inform  Boyd  of  the  different  works  he  had 

*  This  was  Sir  William's  favourite  wine.  The  le- 
witching  fmilcs  of  Burgundy,  had  an  irrefiftible  influence  on 
his  heart. 

in 


HUGH  3OYD.  187 

in  contemplation,  and  to  relate  to  him  all 
that  patted  at  the  celebrated  Literary  Club, 
in  Gerrard-ftreet.  On  thefe  occafions,  Boyd 
obferved,  "  that  his  friend  Goldfmith  never 
"  committed  any  of  thole  abfurdities,  nor 
"  betrayed  any  of  that  idle  and  clumfy  af- 
"  feftation  of  wit,  which  too  frequently  ren- 
"  dered  him  the  fport  of  Richard  Burke, 
"  Garrick,  and  the  other  wicked  wags  at  the 
"  Club  *."  Goldfmith  ufed  to  criticife  Pope's 
epiftolary  ftyle ;  and  once  that  he  dined  at 
Boyd's,  he  condemned  it  in  fevere  terms, 
and  gave  a  fpecimen  of  what  a  familiar 
letter  mould  be. 

A  few  months  before  Goldfmith's  death, 
Boyd  having  heard  from  Richard  Burke, 
that  little  Noll,  as  they  ufed  to  call  him,  had 
been  feverely  attacked  at  the  Club,  and  that 
he  meditated  a  poetical  reply,  immediately 
went  to  him,  in  order  to  difluade  him  from 
an  attempt,  in  which  he  conceived  there  was 
little  chance  of  his  fucceeding.  He  found 

*  Goldfmith  had  no  talent  for  repartee :  yet  he  could 
not  diveft  himfelf  of  that  ridiculous  notion,  too  prevalent 
in  the  learned  world, — that  when  a  man  of  genius  is  in 
company,  //  is  necefl'ary  he  ihould  be  a  wit. 

him 


l88  LIFE   OF 

him  bu.fily  employed  in  giving  the  laft  polifh 
to  fome  parts  of  his  well-known  and  admi- 
mirable  poem  of  Retaliation,  which  the 
Doctor  read  to  him  in  great  triumph,  re- 
quefting  his  opinion  as  to  its  merits.  Boyd 
told  himuhat  he  thought  the  aggrefibrs  ex- 
tremely reprehenfible,  and  that  they  were 
entitled  to  no  quarter ;  but  fearful  left  the 
feverity  with  which  he  had  drawn  the  cha- 
racters of  the  Burkes,  would  not  only  put 
an  end  to  the  friendfhip  which  fubfifted  be- 
tween them  and  Goldfmith,  but  likewife 
difturb  the  harmony  which  prevailed  in  the 
Club,  induced  him  to  foften  feveral  expref- 
fions,  and  intirely  to  call  anew  the  character 
of  William  Burke.  As-  Goldfmith  had  an 
high  opinion  of  Boyd's  critical  tafte,  he  was 
much  pleafed  with  the  emendations  he  had 
fuggefted ;  and  he  begged  of  him  to  call 
again  in  a  few  days,  when  the  poem  mould 
be  completed,  that  he  might  fubrnit  the  re- 
mainder of  it  to  his  perufal,  and  that  they 
jnight  read  the  whole  of  it  over  attentively 
together.  But  Goldfmith  did  not  live  to 
carry  his  plan  into  execution.  He  died,  Un- 
expectedly, of  a  nervous  fever;  and  when 

his 


HUGH  BOY D.  189 

his  friend  Boyd,  who  had  not  heard  even 
of  his  illnefs,  called  on  him  at  the  appointed 
time,  a  fmgular  circumfiance  occurred.  He 
inquired  of  the  maid-fervant  who  opened  the 
door  at  Goldfmith's  lodgings,  whether  the 
Do&or  was  at  home?  (he  anfwered,  yes. — . 
He  aiked,  if  he  might  fee  him?  and  (he 
made  the  fame  reply  ;  upon  which  he  ran 
jup  flairs,  when  on  entering  his  apartment 
he  was  (hocked  beyond  defcription,  at  fee- 
ing poor  Goldfmith  extended  in  his  coffin. 

This  event  took  place  in  March  1774* 
In  the  courfe  of  this  year  Boyd  paid  greater 
.attention  than  he  had  yet  done  to  the  fludy 
of  the  law ;  and  though  he  difliked  the 
practice  of  that  profeffion,  his  pecuniary  ne- 
ceffities,  together  vrith  the  advices  of  his 
friends,  feemed  for  a  while  to  prevail  over 
his  natural  inclination.  Neverthelefs,  he 
did  not  withdraw  himfelf,  either  from  th$ 
literary,  or  fafhionable  circles  with  which 
hq  had  been  accuftomed  to  affociate;  and 
his  arcjour  for  politicks  ilill  continued  una- 
bated. He  conftantly  attended  the  Houfes 
of  Parliament,  but  merely  for  his  own  gra- 
tification 


1CJO  LIFE   OF 

tification  and  amufement :  and  the  day  after 
an  important  debate,  he  ufed  to  write  down, 
intirely  from  memory,  the  fpeeches  of  thofe 
great  men,  whofe  political  opinions  accorded 
with  his  own,  and  whofe  eloquence  he  moil 
admired.  Some  of  thofe  fpeeches  he  occa- 
fionally  publimed ;  and  the  extraordinary 
accuracy  with  which  they  were  reported, 
aftonifhed  all  who  had  heard  them.  There 
was,  in  particular,  one  fpeech  of  Lord  Cam- 
den's  in  the  Houfe  of  Lords,  on  the  difpute 
with  the  American  Colonies,  of  which,  when 
it  was  publimed,  Mr.  Burke,  who  had  heard 
it,  declared  in  Boyd's  prefence,  that  not  only 
the  fentiments,  but  the  expreffions  were  fo 
exaft  in  every  part,  that  his  Lordfhip  mufl 
have  written  it  himfelf.  He  was  afterwards 
informed  that  Boyd  had  reported  it. ' 

Mr.  Boyd  was  fuch  an  enthufiaft  in  poli- 
ticks, that  he  actually  facriftced  both  his 
private  pleafures  and  perfonal  convenience, 
in  attending  the  proceedings  in  parliament. 
At  a  particular  time,  when  the  orders  of  the 
Houfe  of  Commons  were  extremely  ftricl;, 
in  excluding  all.  ftrangers,  except  Irifh 

mem- 


HUGH   BOVD. 

members*,  he  attempted  to  gain  admittance, 
by  pafTmg  for  one  ;    but  the  door-keeper 

knew 

0 

*  Before  the  year  1770,  Grangers  were  feldom  or  ever 
admitted  into  the  gallery  of  the  Houfe  of  Commons;  and 
no  regular  accounts  of  the  proceedings  in  Parliament 
were  fuffered  to  be  printed  in  the  newfpapers  until  the 
year  following,  when  a  circumftance  occurred  that  in- 
duced Parliament  to  comply  with  the  wifhes  of  the  people, 
by  allowing  their  debates  to  be  published  in  the  daily 
papers.  The  Printer  of  the  London  Evening  Poft,  having 
been  ordered  to  attend  at  the  bar  of  the  Houfe  of  Com- 
mons, for  a  breach  of  privilege,  in  having  printed  a  report 
of  their  proceedings,  he  pofitively  refuied  to  obey  their 
fummons,  upon  which  they  fent  a  meffenger  to  take  him 
into  cuftody.  But  the  Printer,  forefeeing  what  would 
happen,  applied  to  Mr.  Wilkes,  then  an  alderman  ot 
London,  to  afford  him  his  protection,  in  cafe  the  metTen- 
ger  mould  attempt  to  take  him  by  force.  As  it  was  ex- 
peeled,  the  meffenger  infilled  on  taking  the  Printer  into 
cuftody;  the  Printer  charged  him  with  an,  affault,  and  a 
conftable  inftantly  appeared,  who  took  the  meffenger  to 
the  Manfion-houfe,  before  the  Lord- Mayor,  (Crofby)  Al- 
derman Oliver,  and  Mr.  Wilkes,  who  wrould  have  com*- 
mitted  him  without  helitation,  had  he  not  been  bailed  by 
the  Deputy  Serjeant  at  Arms.  The  Houfe  of  Commons, 
in  confequence  of  this,  fent  the  Lord-Mayor  and  Alder- 
man Oliver  to  the  Tower,  not  chufing  to  touch  Mr. 
Wilkes ;  but  finding  the  fpirit  of  the  people  rife  high 
againft  their  proceedings,  they  deemed  it  prudent  to  re- 
leafe  the  Lord- Mayor  and  Oliver,  to  give  up  the  conteft, 

and 


10,2  LlI-E    OF 

knew  him  too  well  to  be  deceived  by  the 
ftratagem,  and  refufed  to  let  him  enter  the 
Houfe.  Boyd,  as  it  was  his  cuflom,  endea- 
voured to  foften  the  man  into  compliance, 
when  GEORGE  DEMPSTER,  (then  one  of 
the  Directors  of  the  Eaft-India  Company) 
happening  to  pafs  at  the  time,  and  over- 
hearing what  was  faid,  rebuked  the  door- 
keeper, and  afked  Boyd  his  name.  Having 
gone  too  far  to  recede,  he  replied,  Wilfon, 
member  for  Antrim,  which  name  Mr. 
Dempfter  gave  to  the  Speaker,  and  then 
ufhered  Boyd  up  to  the  gallery,  where  he 
of  courfe  remained  unmolefted.  The  next 
morning  he  went  to  breakfaft  at  Mr.  Lauch- 
lin  Macleane's,  where  he  had  hardly  fat 
down,  when  Mr.  Dempfter  was  announced ; 
and  fearful  of  being  difcovered,  he  thought 
it  prudent  to  make  a  precipitate  retreat,  to 
the  no  fmall  furprife  of  Macleane,  who 
knew  nothing  of  the  circumftance  that  had 
taken  place  the  preceding  evening.  Boyd 
and  Dempfter  afterwards  became  acquainted. 

and.  in  future  to  fuffer  their  debates  to  be  published. 
See' a  particular  Account  of  this  Affair  In  Mr.  Almw's  Lite- 
rary, Biographical,  and  Political  Anecdotes. 

Yet. 


HUGH  BO  YD.  193 

Yet  he  was  not  fo  much  occupied  with 
politicks,  as  to  neglect  the  elegant  purfuits 
of  polite  literature,  or  the  tender  duties  of 
private  friendfhip.  He  had  formed  an  in- 
timate acquaintance  with  Mr.  HARTSON, 
(author  of  the  tragedy  of  the  Countefs  of 
Salifbury,  a  piece  which  dill  holds  its  place 
on  the  flage)  a  young  man  of  fine  parts, 
great  accomplifhments,  and  amiable  man- 
ners ;  and  who,  before  the  age  of  thirty, 
had  made  the  tour  of  Europe  three  times. 
Being  of  a  confumptive  habit,  and  at  this 
time  in  extreme  ill  health,  Mr.  Boyd  in- 
vited him  to  his  houfe  at  Kenton-Green, 
that  he  might  have  the  benefit  of  change  of 
air  :  but  his  malady  was  too  far  advanced  to 
admit  of  any  cure ;  and  neither  the  power 
of  medicine,  nor  the  foothing,  but  cheerful 
friendfhip  of  Boyd,  could  afford  him  any 
effectual  relief.  After  living  many  weeks  at 
Kenton-Green,  Mr.  Hartfon  returned  to 
town,  and  died  in  a  few  days,  without  leaving 
any  other  effects,  than  a  few  manufcript 
poems  and  plays,  to  GRIFFIN  the  book- 
feller,  whom  he  had  appointed  his  executor, 
and  to  whom  he  had  probably  been-indebt- 

VOL.  i.  n  ed. 


194  LIFE   OF 

ed.  Boyd  knowing  Hartfon's  diftrefled  clr- 
cumftances,  called  on  Griffin  the  moment 
he  heard  of  his  death,  and  generoufly  offered 
his  fervices.  Griffin  begged  he  would  order ' 
and  manage  the  funeral,  which  he  did,  and 
for  which  Griffin  afterwards  refufed  to  pay, 
fcandaloufly,  if  not  falfely,  pleading  in  ex- 
cufe,  that  the  manufcripts  were  of  no  value. 
Boyd's  friendship  for  the  deceafed,  would 
have  amply  compenfated  in  his  mind  for  the 
lofs  he  had  thus  fuftained,  if  his  own  wants 
had  not  been  already  fo  numerous,  and  at 
the  fame  time  fo  rapidly  increafmg.  For 
this  was  not  the  only  inflance  in  which  he 
met  with  ftill  heavier  lofles,  through  his  ar- 
dent and  unbounded  generofity,  through 
,his  love  of  literature,  and  his  admiration  of 
genius  :  and  once  or  twice,  indeed,  by  al- 
lowing artful,  needy,  and  falfe  friends  to 
take  advantage  of  the  eafinefs  and  modera- 
tion of  his  temper,  he  reduced  himfelf  to  the 
greateft  diftrefs,  in  order  to  refcue  them 
.from  that  doom,  the  utmoft  rigours  of 
which,  their  bafe  and  fhamelefs  ingratitude 
fubfequently  proved  them  to  have  de- 
ferved. 

On 


HUGH   BOYD.  195 

On  all  thofe  occafions,  however,  he  had 
many  real  friends,  whofe  prompt  and  aftive 
kindnefs  foon  extricated  him  from  his  diffi- 
culties. 

With  his  friend  Mr.  Stuart,  of  Hamp- 
flead,  he  ufed  at  this  period,  very  conftant- 
ly,  to  affociate;  and  at  his  cheerful  and  hof- 
pitable  table  he  enjoyed  the  fociety  of  his 
old  friends  Lauchlin  Macleane  and  the  ex- 
cellent Doclor  Armftrongj  together  with 
many  other  gentlemen,  diftinguifhed  for 
their  genius  and  learning.  Thefe  literary 
parties,  after  paffing  fome  days  at  Hamp- 
ftead,  would  often,  at  the  fuggeftion  of  Arm- 
ftrong,  remove  their  fittings  to  the  Devil- 
Tavern,  in  Fleet-ftreet,  a  houfe  much  noted 
as  the  refort  of  the  wits  of  thofe  days,  where 
they  concluded  their  claflick  revels,  with  the 
fame  fpirit  and  harmony  with  which  they 
had  commenced  them. 

Mr.  Stuart  told  me,  that  Armftrong  and 
Boyd  ufed  to  have  long  critical  difcuflions 
about  the  flyle  of  Juriius,  which  the  Doftor 
always  cenfured,  as  being  too  affecled  and 
fententious,  and  which  Boyd  invariably,  but 
calmly,  defended,  as  being  the  beft  adapted 
n  2  to 


196  LIFE  OF 

to  the  fubjetl  to  which  it  was  applied.  Yet 
I  have  often  heard  him  exprefs  his  high  opi- 
nion of  Armftrong's  ex  aft  critical  difcrimi- 
nation,  and  fine  tafle;  though  on  political 
fubjecls  he  faid  they  never  agreed,  as  the 
Doclor  was  a  {launch  Tory, — but  he  ufed 
to  add, — he  was  a  liberal  Tory. 

It  was  his  practice,  however,  to  avoid 
politicks  as  much  as  poflible  in  private 
company,  and  he  was  always  particularly 
cautious  in  what  he  faid  of  publick  charac- 
ters ;— but  for  Lord  Chatham's  abilities  and 
virtues,  his  veneration  was  fo  high,  that  he 
could  not  fupprefs  his  indignation,  when  he 
heard  any  attempt  made  to  lower  them. 

In  January  1775,  he  publifhed  the  firft  of 
thofe  fpeeches  of  Lord  Chatham's,  which 
are  inferted  in  this  volume.  His  Lordfhip 
delivered  it  on  the  2Cth  of  that  month,  on 
Lord  Dartmouth's  motion  for  an  addrefs  to 
his  Majefty,  "  befeeching  him  to  open  a  way 
"  towards  the  fettlement  of  the  troubles  in 
"  America."  Of  this  fpeech,  the  wonderful 
powers  of  his  memory,  together  with  his 
having  long  accuflomed  his  mind  to  Lord 
Chatham's  "  peculiar  energy  of  ftyle  and 

"  fentiment," 


HUGH  BOYD.  197 

"  fentiment,"  enabled  him  to  retain  the  mod 
perfect  recollection ;  and  Lord  Temple,  and 
many  others  who  heard  it,  ufed  to  fay, 
that  Mr.  Boyd's  report  was  verbatim  as  it 
was  fpoken :  but  it  is,  if  pofiible,  flill  more 
extraordinary,  that  after  eighteen  years  had 
elapfed,  I  have  heard  him  repeat  the  greateft 
part  of  it.  Mr.  Boyd's  mode  of  writing 
down  fpeeches  from  memory,  was -altogether 
peculiar,  and  therefore  deferves  to  be  re- 
corded. He  never  took  any  notes  of  the 
fpeeches  he  had  heard ;  but  after  attending 
a  long  debate  in  parliament,  he  would  fup 
at  a  tavern  with  fome  friends,  return  home 
at  two  or  three  in  the  morning,  go  to  bed 
direclly,  rife  about  feven,  and  write  down 
fuch  fpeeches  as  he  had  moft  admired  in  the 
courfe  of  the  debate,  without  once  looking 
at  any  of  the  newfpaper  reports,  to  facilitate 
his  recollection.  This  is  an  abfolute  fa£t, 
which  many  of  his  friends  have  often  wit- 
neffed. 

It  may  perhaps  be  afked,  how  a  man  of 

fuch    uncommon  abilities,    never  got  any 

publick  employment  in  this  country  ?    And 

how  he  came  to  be  overlooked  by  his  friends 

3  in 


198  LIFE    CU 

in  high  life  ?  But  thofe  who  beft  know  the 
road  to  preferment,  will  eafily  refolve  thefe 
queftions,  when  they  are  informed,  that 
there  was  nothing  he  fo  much  difliked,  as 
foliciting  favours  from  the  great;  and  that 
there  was  nothing  fo  repugnant  to  his  feel- 
ings, as  the  idea  of  being  politically  con- 
necled  with  men  whom. he  defpifed.  And 
every  man  of  the  world  knows  full  well,  by 
what  flow  degrees,  unaffuming  genius,  or 
indigent  virtue,  obtain  the  patronage  of  the 
powerful  and  the  rich — 

HAUD  facile  emergunt,  quorum  virtutibus  obftat 
Res  angufta  domi.— 

Yet,  though  Boyd  was  fo  little  anxious, 
it  may  be  fo  blameably  carelefs,  about  the 
advancement  of  his  own  private  fortune,  he 
was  indefatigably  zealous  in  promoting  the 
views  of  his  friends,  and  the  interefts  of  his 
country ;  no  man  ever  loved  the  one  with 
more  fmcerity,  or  the  other  with  greater 
ardour. 

Nor  in  attending  to  thefe  home-felt  con- 
cerns, did  he  overlook  the  leffer  duties  of 
humanity.  Every  aclion  of  his  life,  be- 

fpoke 


HUGH    BOYD.  1^9 

ipoke  the  benevolence  of  his  mind.  Po- 
verty never  came  to  his  houfe  unaided,  vir- 
tue unhonoured,  nor  vice  un reproved. 

The  following  anecdote  will  place,  in  a 
confpicuous  point  of  view,  the  mild  cou- 
rage, the  manly  tendernefs,  and  the  digni- 
fied liberality  that  marked  his  character. 

He  was  walking  alone  one  day,  acrofs 
Kilburn-Fields,  on  his  way  from  Kenton- 
Green  to  Hampftead,  when  he  was  flopped 
by  a  footpad,  with  a  crape  over  his  face. 
The  manner  in  which  the  footpad  accofted 
him,  induced  Boyd  to  fuppofe  it  his  firft 
offence ;  and  inftead  of  being  difconcerted 
or  alarmed  at  the  piflol  which  he  had  pre- 
fented  at  his  breaft,  he  harangued  him  in 
gentle  but  ftrong  terms  on  the  impropriety 
of  his  conduct,  till  the  man,  fenfibly  touched 
with  his  language,  withdrew  the  pittol. 
Boyd  then  gave  him  his  money,  but  endea- 
voured to  difTuade  the  man  from  taking  his 
watch,  as  it  was  a  prefent  from  a  particular 
friend,  which  would  be  of  little  value  to 
him,  and  by  which  he  would  run  the  rifque 
of  being  detected.  The  footpad,  how- 
ever, pleaded  the  extreme  poverty  of  his 

family, 


2OO  LIFE    OF 

family,  and  Boyd  at  lad  gave  him  the  watch, 
together  with  a  folemn  injunction  regarding 
his  future  conduct. 

On  giving  notice  fome  days  afterwards, 
at  Fielding's  office,  he  found  the  man  was  a 
new  offender,  as  he  had  conjectured ;  not- 
withftanding  which,  he  foon  forgot  the  ad- 
vice that  he  had  given  him,  committed  other 
robberies,  and  was  at  laft  taken  up,  tried, 
and  condemned,  as  Mr.  Boyd  had  foretold, 
by  the  evidence  of  the  pawnbroker  with 
whom  he  had  pawned  the  watch. 

The  dread  of  approaching  death  at  lafl 
foftened  the  unhappy  culprit  into  repentance 
and  contrition,  and  called  forcibly  into  his 
recollection  Mr.  Boyd's  injunction,  which 
he  had  difregarded ;  but.  having  ftill  fome 
hopes  in  that  tendernefs  which  had  been 
before  exprefied  for  him,  he  fent  his  wife  to 
Mr.  Boyd,  who  fell  on  her  knees,  begging 
him  to  fave  her  hufband,  as  he  had  been  a 
man  of  good  character,  whom  nothing  but 
the  miferies  of  his  family  could  have  tempted 
to  go  on  the  highway,  and  who  fincerely 
intended,  when  he  had  procured  a  fum  of 
money  fufficient  to  relieve  him  from  his 

misfortunes, 


HUGH    BOYD.  2O1 

misfortunes,  to  return  to  his  bufmefs  of  car- 
penter in  Woolwich-yard,  whither  (lie  re- 
ferred Mr.  Boyd  for  a  character  of  her  huf- 
band,   and  whither   he    immediately   went. 
The  character  he  got  of  the  man  was  excel- 
lent ;  and  he  brought  away  a  petition  in  his 
favour,  figned  by  the  curate,  and  fome  of 
the  principal  workmen  in  the  yard.     Two 
friends  of  Mr.  Boyd's,  Mr.  GLEN  NY  and 
Mr.  JOHN  BOWMAN,  joined  him  in  his  ex- 
ertions to  fave  this  unfortunate  man,  and 
were  no  lefs  afiiduous  about  the  matter  than 
himfelf.      Boyd  wrote   to   Sir  John  Day, 
who    fent    him   a    letter   to    Sir    George 
Wombwell,  from  whom  he  procured  an  in- 
troductory letter  to  Lord  Sandwich.     He 
loft  not  a  moment  in  calling  on  his  Lord- 
(hip  ;  but  finding  he  had  gone  to  Woolwich, 
Boyd  purfued  him  thither,  was  defired   to 
call  the  next  day  in  town,  which  he  did, 
when  his  Lordfhip  received  him  with  great 
politenefs,  promifed  to  intercede  for  the  de- 
fired  pardon,  and  accordingly  obtained  it. 
Boyd  then,  accompanied  by  his  friend  Mr. 
Glenny,  vifited  the  man  in  Newgate-cells, 
who  manifefted  great  forrow  for  Jiis  crime, 

and 


2O2  LIFE  "OF 

and  abundant  gratitude  towards  his  benc- 
faftor.  Boyd  returned  from  the  cell,  deep- 
ly imprefied  with  the  horror  of  the  fcene 
he  had  witnefled. 

The  footpad,  however,  was  pardoned, 
but  not  reclaimed.  In  the  courfe  of  a  few 
years,  he  betook  himfelf  to  his  former  prac- 
tices ;  was  firft  condemned  to  the  hulks  for 
burglary,  and  at  /aft  hanged  for  having  been 
concerned  in  robbing  the  dock-yard  at 
Portfmouth  ; — affording  a  ftriking  example 
of  the  inefficacy  of  clemency  towards  the 
prevention  of  crimes,  in  thofe  who  have 
once  been  initiated  in  the  practices  of  vice, 
and  of  the  difficulty  of  bringing  back  to  the 
ways  of  honefty,  he  who  has  once  been  im- 
mured in  the  cells  of  Newgate. 

Shortly  after  this  event,  an  affair  hap- 
pened, which  for  a  while  greatly  interefted 
the  publick  mind,  and  which  gave  Mr.  Boyd 
another  opportunity  of  exercifing  his  hu- 
manity. 

In  the  month  of  June  1775,  the  famous 
trial  of  the  two  brothers  ROBERT  and 
DANIEL  PERREAU,  for  forgery,  com- 
menced at  the  Seffions-houfe  in  the  Old- 
Bailey. 


HUGH    BOYD. 

Bailey.  They  were  indicted  for  being  con- 
cerned in  forging  feveral  bonds  and  notes 
in  the  name  of  Mr.  AD  AIR,  the  agent.  It 
were  tedious  to  enter  into  the  particulars  of 
this  curious  cafe,  which  will  be  found  very 
fully  detailed  in  Dodfleys  Annual  Regifter, 
VoL  zoth.  It  is  fufficient  to  ftate  here,  that 
Mrs.  RUDD,  the  miftrefs  of  Daniel  Perreau, 
a  woman  of  exquifite  charms,  but  of  great 
art  and  wickednefs,  was,  by  her  own  con- 
feffion,  the  perfon  who  forged  the  bonds ; 
but  the  jury,  being  fully  fatisfied  of  the 
Perreaus  being  privy  to  the  forgery,  or  that 
they  at  lead  had  connived  at  it,  brought  in 
their  verdict,  "  Guilty  of  publifhing  and 
"  uttering  the  bond,  knowing  it  to  be 
"  forged." — Though  thefe  unfortunate  young 
men  were  found  guilty,  they  were  not  men- 
tioned in  any  report  to  his  Majefty,  till  the 
month  of  December  following,  probably, 
becaufe  fome  doubts  had  arifen  on  the  le- 
gality of  trying  Mrs.  Rudd,  who  claimed  the 
privilege  of  having  become  King's  evidence, 
notwithftanding  her  not  having  been  called 
upon  at  the  trial.  This  queftion  involved 
points  of  fo  much  importance,  that  it  was 

deemed 


2O4  LIFE  01     * 

deemed  requilite  to  take  the  opinion  of  the 
twelve  Judge^  upon  it,  who  after  fome  de- 
liberation determined,  that  Mrs.  Rudd  was 
not  intitled  to  the  advantages  of  King's 
evidence.  She  was  accordingly  tried,  and 
for  want  of  fufficient  evidence,  acquitted. 
Her  trial  lafted  from  nine  in  the  morning 
till  near  eight  in  the  evening :  and  when 
the  jury  brought  in  their  virdicl  of  Not  guilty, 
the  audience  teftified  their  approbation  by 
the  loudefl  applaufes  that  were  ever  known 
in  a  court  of  juftice  ;  excited,  I  (hould  ima- 
gine, rather  from  a  fympathy  with  the  fuf- 
ferings  of  penitent  beauty,  than  from  a  con- 
viftion  of  her  innocence  :  for  it  is  a  fact, 
that  many  circumflances  of  unheard-of  de- 
ception came  to  light,  after  her  acquittal. 
Thefe  circumflances  induced  Mr.  Boyd,  as 
well  as  many  others  who  had  attended  the 
trials,  to  believe  the  Perreaus  were  innocent ; 
and  their  dignified  firmnefs,  and  pious  refig- 
nation,  had  fo  great  an  effecl;  on  Boyd, 
that  he  warmly  interefted  himfelf  i:i  their 
favour. 

A  mod  moving   petition   was    prefented 
to  her  Majefty,  in  favour  of  Robert  Perreau, 

by 


HUGH    BOYD.  205 

by  his   wife    and    three  -children,    in  deep 
mourning1,   and  another  in  hi%  favour  like- 
wife  by  feventy-eight  capital  bankers  and 
merchants  of  the  city  of  London.     Refpect- 
ing  thefe  petitions,  the  Privy-Council  were 
divided  in  opinion ;  and  Lord  Suffolk  was 
faid   to    be    in   favour   of  the    petitioners. 
To  that  noble  Lord,  therefore,   Mr.  Boyd 
uddrefled   feveral   letters  on   this    afflicting 
fubjeft,  which  appeared  in  the  Publick  Ad- 
vertifer,    which  are  written  with  his   ufual 
force  and  elegance,  and  which  were  much 
noticed  and  admired  at  the  time.     Yet  not- 
withftanding  all  that  was  urged  in  extenu- 
ation of  the  mifconduft,  if  not  in  proof  of 
the  abfolute  innocence  of  the  unhappy  cul- 
prits, they  were  included  in  the  next  report 
to  his  Majefty,  and  ordered  for  execution 
on   Wednefday  the  2yth  of  January  1776. 
They  accordingly  fuffered  death  at  Tyburn 
on  that  day  with  calm  and  manly  fortitude, 
and  after  the  moft  folemn  affirmations  con- 
tained in  two  papers,  which  each  delivered 
to    the  Ordinary,    that   they  were  intirely 
innocent    of   the    crime    for    which    the\ 
died. 

'Mr. 


206  LIFE   OF 

Mr.  Boyd's  regret  and  difappointment  at 
this  melanchojy  cataftrophe,  feemed  propor- 
tioned to  the  ftrenuous  zeal  with  which  he 
had  endeavoured  to  avert  it. 

In  the  courfe  of  the  year  1775,  he  had 
vifi ted  Cambridge,  where  he  had  an  oppor- 
tunity of  enlarging  his  acquaintance  with 
men  of  fcience  and  literature;  and  where 
he  received  from  St.  John's  College  the  de- 
gree in  A.  M.  adeundem,  as  being  a  Matter 
of  Arts  of  Trinity  College,  Dublip.  He 
here  became  acquainted  with  the  prefent 
Marquis  of  ABE R CORN,  with  whom  he 
afterwards  lived  on  terms  of  great  inti- 
macy. 

In  January  1776,  he  was  called  to  the 
bar,  where,  however,  he  never  praclifed, 
as  well  for  the  caufes  which  I  have  before 
explained,  as  on  account  of  the  many  ex- 
trinfick  difficulties  which  were  thrown  in 
his  way.  But  politicks  ftill  continued  to 
occupy  a  great  part  of  his  attention. 

He  went  to  Ireland  in  the  fpring  of  1776, 
for  the  exprefs  purpofe  of  attending  the 
general  election,  as  well  as  of  giving  his 
vote  in  the  county  of  Antrim,  to  his  friend 

Mr. 


HUGH  BO. YD.  207 

Mr.  Wilfon,  and  of  managing  the  canvafs 
on  his  fide.  Previous  to  the  election,  he 
publifhed  the  Freeholder,  of  which  I  have 
already  given  an  account,  and  which  had 
fuch  an  aftoniftiing  influence  on  the  electors 
of  Antrim,  that  he  found  little  difficulty  in 
carrying  the  caufe  of  his  friend,  notwith- 
standing the  weighty  andjierling  arguments 
of  the  oppofite  party. 

Mr.  Wilfon  and  the  prefent  Lord  Henry 
Seymour   Conway,    were    chofen   for  the 
county,    and  Mr.  Skeffington  was  thrown 
out.     The  contefl  was  conducted  with  pe- 
culiar difcretion  :  and  it  was  remarked  at 
the  time,  that  it  was  the  only  county-elec- 
tion in  that  part  of  Ireland,  which  had  ever 
been  concluded  without  a  duel ;  and  which 
was    attributed   to   the   mild   and  polifhed 
manners  of  Lord  H.  S.  (then  Mr.)  Conway,, 
and  of  Mr.  Boyd,  who  after  oppofmg  each 
other  the  whole  day,  with  the  utmpft  ar- 
dour and  animation,  would  retire  from  the 
conteft  in  perfect  good  fellowfhip.  . 

On  Mr.   Boyd's   return  to  London,   he 
.  found  parties  in  parliament  running  high, 

and 


2O8  LIFE  OF 

and  the  politicians  without  doors  in  a  fer- 
ment, refpe&ing  the  memorable  DECLARA- 
TION, by  the  reprefentatives  of  the  United 
States  of  America,  in  general  Congrefs  af- 
fembled,  wherein  they  afligned  their  reafons 
for  withdrawing  their  allegiance  to  his  Ma- 
jefty.  He  loft  no  time  in  fending  a  few 
letters  to  the  Publick  Advertifer,  on  that  im- 
portant fubjecl: ;  which,  however,  he  wrote 
with  little  care,  owing  to  the  multiplicity  of 
private  affairs  in  which  he  was  then  engaged. 
He  alfo  drew  up  a  fpirited  manifefto  in  the 
name  of  GENERAL  WASHINGTON,  which 
was  inferted  in  the  Publick  Advertifer, 
which  attracted  a  vail  deal  of  attention, 
and  which  was  for  fome  time  believed 
to  be  genuine.  Thofe  who  are  converfant 
in  the  party  politicks  of  that  time,  will 
remember  this  manifefto,  as  well  as  the 
credit,  which,  for  a  while,  it  obtained  with 
the  publick. 

In  the  beginning  of  1777,  he  gave  up  his 
country  refidence  at  Kenton-Green,  and 
took  a  houfe  in  Norfolk-ftreet  in  the  Strand. 
And  about  this  time,  at  the  particular  defire 

of 


HUGH  BOYD.  2CX) 

oF  his  friends  Mr.  Lauchlin  Macleane*  and 
Mr.  Stuart,  he  wrote  one  or  two  letters  re- 
lative to  the  difpute  between  the  Eaft-India 
Company  and  Mahommed  Alii  Khaan,  the 
Nabob  of  Arcot,  which  he  fent  to  Mr.  Wood- 
fall,  and  which  appeared  in  the  Publick 
Advertifer.  Thefe  letters  are  written  in  a 
plain  eafy  flyle,  fetting  forth  in  a  perfpicu- 
ous  and  forcible  manner,  the  claims  of  his 
Highnefs  the  Nabob,  but  occasionally  throw- 
ing farcaftick  reflections  on  the  conduct  of 
forae  gentlemen  then  at  Madras,  who  had 
borne  a  considerable  fhare  in  the  bulinefs 
alluded  to,  as  well  as  of  the,  odium  which 
was  attached  to  it.  He  likewife  wrote  a 
pamphlet  f,  explanatory  of  the  conduct  of 
the  Nabob,  both  as  it  regarded  the  depofi- 
tion  of  the  Rajah  of  Tanjore,  and  the  im- 
prifonment  of  LORD  Pi  GOT  J,  Governor 

of 

*  Mr.  Macleane  was  the  Nabob's  accredited  agent  in 
England. 

t  This  pamphlet  I  have  not  yet  been  able  to  find  :  but 
Mr.  Stuart  informed  me  it  was  a  very  ingenious  and  maf- 
terly  performance. 

£  On  the  24th  of  Auguft  1776,.  Lord  Pigot  was  arrefted, 

with  circumftances  of   peciiliar   violence,    by   order  of 

VOL.  I.  0  Meflrs, 


21O  LIFE  OF 

of  Madras  ;  fhewing  his  Highnefs's  right  of 
fovereignty  over  the  former,  whom  he  con- 
fidered  as  his  vafial,  and  exonerating  him 
from  the  charge  of  having  been  concerned 
in  the  hoftile  proceedings  of  the  Council  at 
Madras  againft  the  latter. 

Soon  after  this  Mr.  Macleane  went  to 
India,  for  the  purpofe  of  accommodating 
matters  between  the  Company  and  the  Na- 
bob, and  of  bringing  his  Highnefs's  debts 
into  a  train  of  liquidation.  Before  his  de- 
parture, he  made  fome  arrangements  with 
Boyd,  in  refpeft  to  the  means  of  fupporting 
the  Nabob's  caufe  in  this  country,  and  of 
keeping  alive  the  publick  intereft  concern- 
ing it :  and  he  found  himfelf  under  fo  many 

Mefirs.  George  Stratton,  Henry  Brooke,  Charles  Floyer, 
and  George  Mackay,  then  members  of  the  council  at 
Madras,  and  confined  under  a  military  force  in  his  own 
government,  in  which  degrading  fituation  he  died,  after  a 
rigorous  imprifonment  of  nine  months,  and  a  fhort  time 
before  the  6rder  of  the  Court  of  Directors  for  his  releafe, 
arrived  at  the-Prefidency.  See  the  particulars  of  this  extra- 
ordinary tranjaflion,  impart  tally  t  though  not  fully,  nor 
altogether  accurately  detailed,  In  Dodjleys  Annual  Regifler, 
V'oL  20,  and  an  authentick  Account  of  Lord  Ptgot's  Death  in 
Vol.  21,  ofthefamcff'irk. 

obligations 


HUGH   BOYD.  211 

obligations  to  Boyd,  that  he  faithfully 
promifed  him  he  woald,  upon  his  return 
from  India,  aflift  in  clearing  him  from  all 
his  pecuniary  difficulties.  This  promife  did 
great  honour  to  Macleane's  heart,  and  I 
doubt  not  he  would  gladly  have  fulfilled  it ; 
but  he  never  again  faw  him.  The  (hip  on 
which  he  had  embarked  at  Madras  for  Eng- 
land, was  never  heard  of,  after  (he  left 
the  Cape  of  Good  Hope,  and  muft  confe- 
quently  have  foundered  at  fea. 

The  attention  which  Boyd  thus  paid  to 
Indian  politicks,  did  not,  however,  occupy 
any  great  part  of  his  time ;  for  he  neglecled 
not  his  ufual  amufements. 

As  he  now  relided  in  town,  he  conflantly 
frequented  the  chefs  club,  and  during  this 
year  aflbciated  very  much  with  his  old  friends 
the  Duke  of  Ancafter,  the  Earl  of  Afliburn- 
ham,  and  Count  Bruhl. 

At  this  period,  too,  he  was  more  in  the 
fociety  of  the  Burkes,  than  he  had  hereto- 
fore been  ;  as  he  not  only  was  much  at  their 
own  houfes,  but  alfo  met  them  at  Sir  Jofhua 
Reynolds's,  to  whofe  literary  parties  he  was 
often  invited,  and  by  whom,  as  I  have  be- 
o  2  fore 


2X2  LIFE  OF 

fore  dated,  he  was  greatly  admired.  At  Sir 
Jofhua's  he  once  or  twice  met  Johnfon ; 
and  notwithftanding  the  Doctor's  toryifm, 
and  his  fevere  attack  on  Junius,  no  man 
held  his  genius  and  virtues  in  greater  reve- 
rence than  Boyd ;  which  circumftance,  in 
my  mind,  fuffieiently  accounts  for  the  filence 
of  Junius,  refpecling  Johnfon's  animadver- 
fions  on  his  writings. 

Boyd's  fine  tafte  in  Painting  peculiarly 
recommended  him  to  the  notice  of  Sir 
Jofhua  Reynolds,  who  ufed  to  have  fre- 
quent eonverfations  with  him  on  the  fub- 
}etk9  and  who  ufed  to  afk  his  opinion  of  the 
pieces  on  which  his  own  mafterly  pencil 
was  employed.  And  his  difcriminating 
judgment  in  this  delightful  art,  the  following 
anecdote  will  ferve  to  (hew. 

He  went  once  with  a  party  to  Audley- 
End,  the  feat  of  Sir  John  Griffin,  to  fee  a 
collection  of  very  fine  paintings,  and  parti- 
cularly forae  figures  of  Venus,  in  different 
attitudes,  by  an  eminent  artift.  On  view- 
ing the  fir  ft,  he  obferved,  "  that  there  was 
"  an  extraordinary  degree  of  animation  in 
"  the  countenance,"  adding,  "  that  the  Ve- 
3  nus's 


HUGH  BOYD.  213 

if  nus's  of  fancy  generally  wanted  that  qua- 
"  lity."  On  examining  the  other  figures  of 
the  goddefs,  he  made  the  fame  remark ;  when 
the  conductor  told  him  with  a  fmile, — "  You 
"  are  very  right,  Sir, — the  dairy-maid,  a 
"  beautiful  young  woman,  fat  for  ail  thofe 
"  pi&ures."— The  Painter  fell  in  love  with 
his  Venus,  and  carried  her  off  with  him. 

Nor  was  Mr.  Boyd's  tafte  in  literary  com- 
pofition  lefs  exquifite,  than  in  painting.  At 
the  memorable  trial  of  the  unhappy  DODD, 
he  was  fo  much  ftruck  with  the  eloquence 
of  his  defence,  and  fo  much  perfuaded  that 
it  muft  have  been  written  by  Johnfon,  that 
when  he  returned  home,  he  committed  it  to 
paper.  A  few  days  afterwards  it  was  pub- 
liflied,  with  a  notification  of  its  being  the 
compofition  of  Dr.  Johnfon  ;  and  when  the 
original  was  compared  with  Boyd's  report, 
from  memory,  they  were  found  to  be  word 
for  word  the  fame.  A  more  convincing 
proof  of  an  acute  difcernment,  a  refined 
tafte,  and  a  moft  tenacious  memory,  will  not, 
I  believe,  be  found  in  the  whole  range  of 
biographical  hiftory. 

He 


214  LIFE  OF 

He  was  extremely  fond,  as  I  have  (hewn, 
of  being  prefent  at  all  interefting  trials  ;  but 
he  never  allowed  that  amufement  to  inter- 
fere with  his  attendance  in  the  Houfes  of 
Parliament ;  for  the  love  of  politicks  flill 
fwayed  his  mind. 

On  November  the  2Oth,  1777,  he  attended 
the  debate  in  the  Houfe  of  Lords,  at  the 
opening  of  the  feflion  ;  and  when  he  went 
home,  he  wrote  down  Lord  Chatham's 
celebrated  fpeech  on  that  occafion,  toge- 
ther with  the  noble  Earl's  reply  to  Lord 
Suffolk,  which,  however,  he  did  not  publifh 
till  the  year  1779. 

He  was  alfo  below  the  bar  of  the  Houfe 
of  Lords,  on  that  MEMORABLE  DAY  in 
1778,  when  the  wifeft  STATESMAN,  and, 
perhaps,  the  moll;  accomplimed  ORATOR, 
either  of  ancient  or  modern  times,  made 
his  dying  exertions,  in  fupport  of  the  free- 
dom, the  honour,  and  the  glory  of  his 
country,  and  whofe  voice  was  no  more 
heard  in  the  fenate-houfe — Illud  immortali- 
tate  dignum  ingenmm,  ilia  humanitas,  ilia 
virtus  Craffi  morte  extinttafubita  eft,  vix  die- 
bus  dccem  pojl  eum  diem,  qui  hoc  ct  fuperiore 

libro 


HUGH   BOYD.  215 

libro  continetur.  Ilia  tanquam  cycnea  fuit 
divini  hominis  vox,  et  oratio,  quam  quafi  ex- 
petlantes,  pojl  ejus  interitum,  veniebamus  in 
curiam,  ut  veftigium  illud  ipfum,  in  quo  ille 
pojlremum  inftitiffet,  contueremur  * . 

When  Lord  Chatham  fainted,  the  Houfe 
was  thrown  into  the  utmoft  confufion.  Af- 
fi fiance  was  called  for  from  behind  the  bar, 
and  Mr.  Boyd  immediately  offered  his  fer- 
vices,  which,  however,  were  not  afterwards 
required.  The  noble  Earl  was  conveyed  to 
his  feat  at  Hayes  in  Kent,  and  expired  on 
the  1 1  th  of  May. 

In  1779,  ^r-  Boyd  publimed  his  Genuine 
Abjlra&s  of  the  aforefaid  Speeches  of  the 
Earl  of  Chatham,  with  a  Preface  and  Notes. 
They  were  printed  in  the  form  of  an  oEiavo 
pamphlet,  for  J.  Dodfley.  Before  the 
pamphlet  was  put  to  prefs,  he  apologized 
to  his  old  acquaintance  Mr.  Almon,  for  not 
giving  it  to  him  ;— faying,  "  that  as  he  (Mr. 
Almon)  had  been  perfonally  known  to 
Lord  Chatham,  the  publication  by  him 

*  Cic.  deOrat.  lib.  iii.  f.  I. 

might 


2l6  LIFE    OF 

•might  feern  to  infinuate  it  was  with  the  con- 
currence of  his  Lordfhip's  friends,  which 
not  being  the  facl,  his  delicacy  would  not 
permit  to  be  inferred." 

The  fame  year  he  was  recommended  by 
Mr.  Stuart  and  Mr.  James  Macpherfon  *, 
to  the  five  depofers  t  of  Lord  Pigpt,  not 
only  to  plead  their  caufe  in  Weftminfter- 
Hall,  but  al/b  to  write  a  pamphlet  to  endea- 

*  The  Tranflator  of  the  celebrated  Poems  of  OSSIAN, 
and  at  this  time  agent  to  the  NABOB  of  ARCOT. 

tOn  the  i6th  of  April  1779,  Admiral  Pigot,  brother  to 
the  unfortunate  nobleman  in  queftion,  moved,  in  the  Houfe 
of  Commons,  an  Addrefs  to  his  Majefty,  praying  "that 
"  he  would  be  gracioufly  pleafed  to  give  directions  to  his 
"  Attorney  General  to  proiecute  the  five  depofers  of  Lord 
'*  Pigot,"  whole  names  have  been  already  mentioned. 
Mr.  Stratton,  the  principal  perfon  concerned  in  that 
affair,  being  a  Member  of  the  Houfe,  and  prcfent  in  his 
place  on  the  occafion,  entered  into  a  long  vindication  oi 
his  own,  and  of  his  colleague's  conduft,  which,  however, 
did  not  fatisfy  the  Houfe,  and  the  Admiral's  motion  was 
carried  without  a  divifion.  Mr.  Stratton  and  his  friends 
were  accordingly  profecuted.  The  trial  came  on  in  the 
Court  of  King's  Bench,  before  Lord  Mansfield,  on  the  2®th 
of  December  1779,  at  nine  in  the  morning,  and  lafted  till 
feven  the  next  morning,  when  the  jury  returned  their 
verdift  GUILTY.  They  were,  however,  fentenced  only 
to  pay  a  trifling  fine. 

vour 


HUGH    B6YD.  217 

vour  to  efface  the  odium  which  had  been 
thrown  upon  their  characters.  But  Mr. 
DUNNING,  being  their  leading  Counfel,  they 
thought  it  unneceffary  to  employ  any  one 
elfe :  arid  owing  to  a  particular  circum- 
flance,  which  it  is  not  material  to  relate, 
Boyd  declined  writing  the  pamphlet. 

But  he  had  now  a  profpecl:  of  procuring  a 
fituation,  which  would  have  opened  the  road 
to  his  ambition,  and  for  which  his  great  abi- 
lities were  peculiarly  well  fuited.  Governor 
Patterfon  and  Mr.  Flood  ufed  their  utmoft 
intereft  to  get  him  appointed  under- fee retary 
of  ftate,  in  Lord  George  Germaine's  depart- 
ment ;  and  for  that  purpofe,  he  was  recom- 
mended in  the  ftrongeft  terms  to  his  Lord- 
fhip,  by  a  friend  who  had  great  influence 
with  him.  Neverthelefs,  all  the  efforts  that 
were  made  in  his  favour,  proved  unfuccefs- 
ful,  owing  to  fome  hidden  caufe  *,  of  which, 
as  I  know  not  the  exaft  truth,  I  (hall  not  at- 
tempt to  develop.  The  failure  of  this  bufmefs 

*  This  caufe,  I  ftrongly  fufpeft,  will  be  explained, 
when  Mr.  Chalmers  publifhes  his  documents,  in  proof  of 
Mr.  Boyd  having  written  the  letters  of  Junius. 

gave 


2l8  LIFE  Oi 

gave  infinitely  more  concern  to  his  friends, 
than  to  himfelf ;  for  as  his  political  fenti- 
ments  differed  widely  from  thofe  of  the  ad- 
miniftration,  it  was  with  the  greateft  diffi- 
culty Mr.  Flood  perfuaded  him  to  agree  to 
the  application  being  made ;  but  the  deplo- 
rable condition  of  his  affairs,  and  the  hopes 
of  ferving  his  family,  at  lafl  induced  him  to 
yield  to  his  friends  intreaties. 

After  this  affair  dropped,  he  fent  feveral 
letters  to  the  Publick  Advertiser  figned  De- 
mocraticus,  fome  of  which  I  have  inferted 
in  this  collection  of  his  writings,  and  have 
already  fpoken  of  much  at  large. 

In  the  winter  of  1779?  and  the  fpring  of 
1780,  he  wrote  the  letters  of  the  Whig,  which 
he  addreffed  to  the  PEOPLE  OF  ENGLAND, 
and  which,  as  has  been  ftated,  appeared  in 
Mr.  Almon's  morning  paper,  intitled,  the 
London  Courant.  Thefe  were  his  laft  politi- 
cal productions  which  merit  any  attention  ; 
but  he  afterwards  publifhed,  in  the  fame  pa- 
per, a  few  letters  figned  Kitty  Back-pinch, 
in  ridicule  of  the  Scotch,  which,  although 
they  would  be  uninterefting  now,  furnifhed  a 
yaft  deal  of  amufement  at  the  time. 

Having, 


HUGH   BOYD. 

Having,  by  fome  accident,  fnapt  the  muf- 
culus  plantaris  of  his  leg,  he  was  defired  by 
his  friend  Jo  H  N  H  u  N  T  E  R  ,  to  recline  daily 
on  a  fopha ;  and  although  he  was  in  extreme 
pain,  it  was  in  this  (ituation  that  he  wrote 
thofe  humorous  letters.  After  his  reco- 
very, he  dined  at  Mr.  Lee's,  where  there 
was  a  hoft  of  Scotchmen  at  table.  The  con- 
verfation  turned  upon  Kitty  Backpinclis, 
epiftles,  which  occafioned  much  laughing 
and  many  pleafantries.  Several  conjectures 
were  made  about  the  author,  but  the  fufpi- 
cion  never  fell  upon  Boyd,  who  profefled 
himfelf  equally  anxious  with  the  reft  of  the 
company  to  difcover  the  wicked  wit  that  had 
taken  fo  many  liberties  with  \\isfriends. 

He  dill  continued  to  be  a  conftant  attend- 
ant in  the  houfes  of  parliament.  In  the 
gallery  of  the  Houfe  of  Commons  he 
often  fat  near  Mr.  PITT,  the  prefent  CHAN- 
CELLOR OF  THE  EXCHEQUER,  before 
that  Right  Hon.  gentleman  became  a  mem- 
ber of  the  houfe.  They  at  laft  got  well  ac- 
quainted ;  and  once,  after  a  long  debate  on 
the  affairs  of  Ireland,  they  retired  together 
to  a  late  dinner,  and  over  their  wine  jointly 

committed 


22O  LIFE    OF 

committed  to  paper  the  fubftance  of  the 
debate,  and  tranfmitted  it  to  Ireland.  When 
the  bill  was  called  for,  Boyd  chanced  not 
to  have  cam  enough  about  him  to  pay  his 
•{hare,  and  Mr.  Pitt  lent  him  a  few  millings 
to  make  up  the  deficiency. 

Of  thefe  favourite  amufements,  however, 
he  was  now  obliged  to  take  leave.  The 
•exigencies  of  his  fituation  engrofled  all  his 
attention;  and  the  experience  of  the  incon* 
veniencies  he  fuffered  from  them,  determin- 
ed him  to  attach  himfelf  to  fome  fixed  pur- 
.  tu.it,  whereby  he  might  be  enabled  to  repair 
'his  fortune.  With  this  view  he  got  his  in- 
timate friend  Mr.  Lawrence  Sullivan  to  re- 
commend him  to  Lord  Macartney ;  and  on 
his  Lordfliip's  nomination  to  the-  govern- 
ment of  Madras,  he  appointed  him  his 
'fecond  fecretary. 

With  this  appointment,  he  left  England, 
(though  with  much  reluctance)  embarked  for 
India  with  Lord  Macartney's  fuite,  and  ar- 
rived at  Madras  in  the  autumn  of  the 
year  1781. 

After  his  arrival  at  that  iettlement,  he  de- 
voted his  leifure  hours  very  feduloufly  to 

the 


HUGH  BOVD. 

the  ftudy  of  eaftern  politicks,  in  which  he 
was  not  long  in  attaining  confiderable  know-^ 
ledge. 

An  opportunity  foon  occurred  to  call 
that  knowledge  into  action.  A  powerful 
confederacy  was  at  this  time  formed  againft 
the  Britifh  pofleflions  in  India,  which  aimed 
at  nothing  lefs  than  their  total  deftruftion, 
and  which  the  aftive  genius  of  a  H  AS  T  i  x G s, 
and  the  daundefs  heroifm  ofaCooxE,  per-* 
haps  could  have  alone  fubdued. 

Thus  fituated,  a  plan  was  propofed,  and 
fpeedily  adopted,  by  the  government  of 
Madras,  of  forming  an  alliance  with  a 
people,  with  whofe  manners  and  country 
we  were  very  (lightly  acquainted ;  but  from 
whom  much  affiftance  might  be  derived, 
in  reducing  the  power  of  a  great  com- 
mercial rival,  with  whom  we  were  then  at 
war. 

The  Dutch  had  long  remained  in  tin 
difturbed  pofleflion  of  the  trade  of  the  ifland 
of  Ceylon ;  but  the  time  was  now  arrived 
when  they  had  to  encounter  in  an  enemy  an 
intelligent  and  adventurous  rival,  and  when 
all  that  energy  was  required  to  be  called 

for  tli. 


222  LIFE  OF 

forth,  which  in  their  better  days  repelled  the 
arms  of  Spanifh  tyranny. 

After  the  reduction  of  Negapatam,  and 
the  fall  of  the  other  Dutch  fettlements  on 
the  Coaft-of  Coromandel,  an  expedition  was 
planned  and  executed  againft  Trmcomallee, 
in  Ceylon,  under  the  direction  of  Admiral 
Sir  Edward  Hughes. 

Mr.  Boyd  accompanied  this  expedition, 
being  deputed,  by  the  Governor  in  Council 
of  Madras,  on  a  fpecial  miflion  to  the  King 
of  Candy.  He  embarked  on  board  the 
Admiral's  (hip,  the  Superb,  and  was  on 
(hore  at  the  ftorming  of  Trincomallee,  a  few 
days  fubfequent  to  which  he  fet  out  on  his 
embaiTy  to  Candy. 

A  particular  account  of  this  miflion  will 
be  found  in  Mr.  Boyd's  Journal  *,  which  is 

-now 

*  This.  Journal  was  written  by  Mr.  Boyd,  during  his 
embafTy,  and  the  copy  of  it  which  is  now  published,  to- 
gether with  the  letters  contained  in  the  Appendix  to  the 
KmbaiTy,  were  tianfmitted  by  him  to  Mrs.  Boyd,  when 
he  was  a  prifoner  in  the  iflc  of  Bourbon,  and  have  by  her 
been  carefully  preferved  lince  that  time.  The  account  I 
gave  of  this  Embafly  in  a  former  edition  of  Mr.  Boyd's 
Life,  is  in  fonie  parts  inaccurate,  owing  to  my  not  having, 

when 


HUGH   BO  YD. 

now  printed  for  the  firft  time,  and  inferted 
in  the  fecond  volume  of  thefe  works,  to- 
gether with  a  Preface,  that  comprifes  an 
hiftorical  account  of  Ceylon,  and  that  points 
out  the  importance  of  Mr.  Boyd's  embafly, 
as  well  as  the  ability  with  which  it  was 
conducted. 

The  objecl:  of  this  embafly  was  to  con- 
clude a  treaty  of  alliance  between  the  Go- 
vernment of  Madras  and  the  King  of  Candy, 
by  which  the  latter  was  to  be  required,  not 
only  to  fupply  the  Britifh  troops  in  Ceylon, 
with  the  effential  article  of  provifions,  butalfo 
to  fend  a  powerful  army  to  co-operate  with 
the  Englifh  in  the  reduction  of  Columbo. 
The  King  of  Candy,  after  much  perfuafion, 
agreed  to  fupply  the  Englifh  with  provi- 

whcn  I  wrote  that  account,  any  other  information  con- 
cerning it,  than  what  I  had  collected  from  fome  cafual 
converfations  with  Mr.  Boyd  on  the  fubjeft.  One  or  two 
of  thofe  inaccuracies  it  may  be  neceffary  to  point  out.  Jt 
ftated,  that  Mr.  Boyd  had  only  an  efcort  of  an  havildar 
and  twelve  fepoys,  and  that  he  was  only  twelve  days  on 
his  journey  from  Trinccmallee  to  Candy]  whereas  it  appears 
from  his  own  account,  that  he  had  a  whole  company  of 
icpoys,  commanded  by  a  Britifti  officer,  and  that  he  was 
cxaclly  one  month  between  TrincomaUie  and  Candy. 

(Ions, 


£24  LIFE    OF 

fions,  but  he  pofitively  refufed  to  take  any 
part  in  the  war  againft  the  Dutch,  or  to  con- 
clude a  treaty  of  alliance.,  except  with  an  am- 
baflador  commiffioned  by  theKing  of  England 
hirnfelf.  It  was  in  vain  that  Mr.  Boyd  re- 
prefented  to  his  Highnefs,  that  the  Governor 
of  Madras  was  the  reprefentative  of  the 
King  of  England,  in  India,  that  he  confe- 
quently  had  full  powers  to  negotiate  with 
foreign  ftates,  and  that  he  had  in  fa6l  con- 
cluded treaties  with  many  other  princes  in 
Hinduftan.  The  Candian  monarch  remain- 
ed inflexible,  and  Mr.  Boyd  was«at  laft 
obliged  to  depart  from  his  court,  without 
having  obtained  the  mod  material  purpofe 
of  his  miflion. 

On  his  return  to  Trincomallee,  he  hired  a 
fmall  veflel  to  carry  him  to  Madras,  with  all 
poflible  expedition ;  the  frigate  that  had  been 
appointed  by  the  Admiral  to  carry  him  thi- 
ther, having  put  to  fea.  This  proved  an  un- 
lucky circumftance  to  Mr.  Boyd ;  for  the 
day  after  his  departure  from  Trincomallee,  he 
fell  in  with  the  French  fleet,  commanded  by 
Monf.  de  Suffrein,  was  made  prifoner,  and 
fent  on  board  La  Fine  frigate.  The  Captain 

of 


HUG,H  BOYD.  225 

of  this  fhip  was  a  polite  companionable  man, 
and  (hewed  him  great  refpecl  and  kindnefs. 
Such  manners,  under  misfortune,  are  pecu- 
liarly conciliating. 

The  morning  after  his  capture,  the  lively 
Frenchman  told  him,  with  a  fmile,  that  the 
Englifh  fleet  was  in  fight,  and  that  their  fitu- 
ations  might  probably  be  foon  feverfed, 
"  Les  armesfontjournalieres"  faid  he,  with 
much  vivacity,  and  giving  him  his  hand, 
— "  a  qudque.  chofe  malheur  eft  bon  mon 
arniT — but  fortune  was  unkind  to  his  pri- 
foner. 

The  fleets  engaged,  and  the  aftion,  as  is 
well  known,  laded  till  night.  La  Fine,  by 
fome  mifmanagement,  got  into  the  Englifh 
line,  and  fell  fo  clofe  on  board  the  Ifis,  a  fifty 
gun  (hip,  that  the  French  commander 
thought  it  folly  to  attempt  getting  off,  and 
hailed  that  he  had  ftruck ;  upon  which  fe- 
veral  Englifh  prifoners  went  on  board  the 
Ifis,  but  Mr.  Boyd,  being  rather  indifpofed, 
declined  quitting  the  Frenchman  till  the 
morning  ;  in  the  mean  time,  however,  a  frefii 
breeze  fprung  up,  and  before  the  Ifis,  in  her 
difabled  condition,  could  take  poffellion  of 
i.  p  her 


226  LIFE  OF 

her  prize,  the  frigate  took  the  advantage, 
and  got  clear  off.  Mr.  Boyd  remonltrated 
againfl  this  proceeding  of  the  French  cap- 
tain's in  terms  fo  pointed  and  ftrong,  that 
he  was  ordered  into  clofe  confinement.  The 
next  day,  the  French  captain  releafed  him, 
apologized  for  the  manner  in  which  he  had 
treated  him,  and  endeavoured  to  extenuate 
the  impropriety  of  his  conducl  towards  the 
Ifis. 

When  La  Fine  arrived  at  the  ifland  of 
Mauritius,  Mr.  Boyd  was  made  a  clofe  pri- 
foner,  and  was  kept  there  feveral  months. 
He  was  afterwards  fent  to  the  ifle  of  Bourbon, 
(for  what  reafon  he  never  could  learn)  where 
he  lived  at  the  Governor's  table,  and  was 
treated  with  the  utmoll  kindnefs  and  libe- 
rality. 

Captivated  with  that  generofity  and  po- 
]itenefs  for  which  the  people  of  this  ifland 
are  peculiarly  diftinguifhed,  he  felt  not  the 
inconveniences,  much  lefs  the  hardfhips,  of 
imprifonment.  Such  focieties  he  was  born 
to  animate,  felicitate,  and  delight :  in  them 
he  gave  grace  to  learning,  cheerful nefs  to 
wifdom,  and  elegance  to  wit. 

But 


HUGH   BOYD. 

But  the  liberality  of  the  Governor  put  a 
period  to  the  pleafures  which  he  enjoyed  in 
this  beautiful  ifland:  he  offered  Mr.  Boyd 
his  parole,  which  refpeft  for  his  fituation 
obliged  him,  however  reluctantly,  to  ac- 
cept* 

On  his  return  to  Madras,  he  folicited  Lord 
Macartney  for  an  appointment,  by  which  he 
could  advance  his  fortune ;  but  his  Lord- 
(hip  having  none  at  his  immediate  difpofal, 
Mr.  Boyd  went  for  a  few  months  to  Cal- 
cutta, where  he  lived  on  terms  of  intimacy 
with  Sir  JOHN  MACPHERSON,  then  Go- 
vernor of  Bengal,  and  where  his  talents,  wit, 
and  humour,  together  with  the  fuperlative 
fprightlinefs  of  his  convivial  qualities,  will  be 
long  remembered  with  pleafure* 

His  flay  at  Calcutta  was  fhorter  than  he 
intended.  Being  appointed  mafter-attend- 
ant  at  Madras,  he  was  recalled  to  that  pre- 
fidency.  The  duties  of  this  fituation  were 
ill  fuited  to  the  delicacy  of  his  mind ;  but 
as  the  emoluments  appertaining  to  it  were 
fo  great  as  to  open  to  him  the  profpecl  of 
ultimate  wealth,  he  cheerfully  overlooked 
every  leffcr  confideration.  Nor  was  this 
p  2  profpeci 


228  LIFE  OF 

profpeft  fo  diflant,  or  the  avenue  that 
led  to  it  fo  difagreeable  as  may  be  fup- 
pofed ;  though  Prudence,  unqueftionably, 
was  the  only  gukle  that  could  conducl  him 
through  it :  but,  alas !  with  her  he  was  ever 
at  variance,  for  he  aflbciated  too  conftantly 
with  Senfibility,  to  relifh  much  the  cold 
counfels  of  Prudence;  yet  is  it  to  be  lamented, 
that  Prudence  did  not  find  an  early  entrance 
into  his  breaft,  that  with  her  protecting 
(hield,  (he  might  have  covered,  from  the 
rude  ravages  of  precarious  fortune,  the  fine 
polifh  of  virtuous  fenfibility. 

He  now  lived  in  his  ufual  ftyle,  the  orna- 
ment of  general  fociety,  and  the  life  of  every 
company. 

During  the  Myfore  war,  which  terminated 
in  1792,  he  conducted  a  paper,  intitled,  the 
'Madras  Courier:  it  was  very  juftly  admired 
for  precifion  in  detail,  and  tafte  and  judg- 
ment in  feleclion. 

In  June  1793,  he  firft  conceived  the  idea 
of  publifhing  periodical  effays  on  morals  and 
literature.  At  this  time  I  accidentally  be- 
came acquainted  with  him.  "  I  was  then 
'"  only  not  a  boy ;"  and  the  manly  dignity 

of 


HUGH    BOYD.  229 

of  his  countenance,  the  fafcinating  courtefy 
of  his  addrefs,  the  rich  eloquence  of  his  lan- 
guage, the  variety  of  his  knowledge,  and  the 
facility  with  which  he  communicated  infor- 
mation, at  once  commanded  my  refpecl  and 
admiration.  We  often  met,  and  our  con- 
verfations  chiefly  took  a  literary  turn.  He 
liftened  to  my  opinions,  however  much  they 
differed  from  his  own,  with  the  kindeft  con- 
defcenfion,  and  anfwered  them  with  a  frank- 
nefs  that  befpoke  the  generofity  of  his  mind. 
A  gradual  increafe  of  mutual  fondnefs,  foon 
grew  into  friendfhip  ; — a  friendfhip  not  to  be 
impaired  by  place,  fortune,  or  calamity,  nor 
ever  effaced  from  my  mind. 

"  If  e'er  from  me  thy  loved  memorial  part, 
"  May  fhame  afflict  my  alienated  heart. 

*'  Oh,  if  fometimes  thy  fpotlefs  form  defcend, 
"  To  me,  thy  aid,  thou  guardian  Genius,  lend! 
"  When  rage  mifguides  me,  or  when  fear  alarms, 
"  When  pain  diflrelTes,  or  when  pleafure  charms, 
"  In  filent  whifp'rings  purer  thoughts  impart, 
"  And  turn  from  ill  a  frail  and  feeble  heart ; 
"  Lead  through,  the  paths,- thy  virtue  trod  before, 
"  Till  blifs  (hail  join,  nor  death  can  part  us  more." 

I  was  now  his  inmate,  and  feldom  or  ever 
abfent  from  his  company.      His  acquaint- 
ance 


230  LIFE   OF 

ance  formed  the  whole  fociety  of  Madras, 
and  to  that  little  circle  he  gave  peculiar 
grace.  Every  man  of  judgment  admired, 
and  every  man  of  fenfibility  loved  him.  If 
there  were  thofe  that  fnarled  at  his  irregula-r 
rities,  they  were  at  leaft  foothed  by  his  gen- 
tlenefs ;  and  if  at  times  they  had  the  bold' 
nefs  to  bite,  they  had  not  often  the  refolution 
to  continue  the  conflict :  for  churlifh  cen- 
fure  is  always  impotent  when  oppofed  to 
humour  and  mildnefs. 

His  plan  for  the  "  Indian  Obferver"  was 
made  known  to  the  publick  fome  time  in 
Auguft  1793,  and  foon  obtained  a  very  libe- 
ral encouragement.  The  novelty  of  the 
attempt  in  that  country,  excited  univerfal 
curiofity,  which  it  was  known  the  great  ta- 
lents of  the  Conductor  were  well  qualified 
to  gratify.  In  the  courfe  of  a  month,  the 
fubfcription  amounted  to  four  hundred 
names. 

The  work  was  now  to  commence ;  but 
Mr.  Boyd  very  properly  judging  it  would 
give  greater  fatisfaclion  by  appearing 
through  the  channel  of  a  weekly  paper,  in 
which  the  politician  and  merchant,  if  they 

reliflied 


HUGH    BOYD.  231 

relifhed  not  the  literary  treat,  might  refort 
to  more  homely  repafts,  propofed  this  mode 
to  his  friends,  by  whom  it  was  highly  ap- 
proved. 

This  paper  he  intitled  the  Hircarrah  *, 
the  firft  number  of  which  appeared  on  the 
9th  of  September  1793,  and  which,  before 
the  publication  of  the  fecond,  procured 
nearly  one  hundred  additional  fubfcribers. 
The  Obferver  was  now  in  high  repute,  and 
the  Bceviad  race  of  India,  (for  there  are 
thofe  fongflers  there  as  well  as  in  other 
countries)  were  all  on  wing — {training  their 
lungs  to  heave  the  cumbrous  load ! 

Scribimus  inclufi>  numeros  ille,  hie  pede  liber, 
Grande  aliquid quod pulmo  animee  pralargus  anhelet^. 

The  Obferver  with  confident  dignity  flea- 
dily  advanced  in  his  purfuit,  gratified  by  the 
voice  of  publick  approbation,  and  undif- 
turbed  by  thofe  literary  reptiles  whom  the 
rays  of  his  genius  had  called  forth  into  a 
momentary  exiftence. 

In  February  1794,  Mr.  Boyd  advertifed 
propofals  for  publifhing  by  fubfcription  his 

*  An  Hircarrah  fignifies  a  meflenger.        t  Perf.  Sat.  I. 

EmbafTy 


232  LIFE   OI 

Embafly  to  Candy,  with  particulars  of  that 
country,  and  of  the  iflands  of  Mauritius  and 
Bourbont  in  two  volumes  8vo.  The  fub- 
fcription  did  not  increafe  fo  rapidly  as  might 
have  been  expefted.  It  was  certainly  a 
work  from  which  the  wT>rld  would  have  de- 
rived much  entertainment  and  information. 
The  tardinefs  of  the  publick  damped  the 
ardour  with  which  he  had  embraced  the 
project ;  and  he  delayed  taking  up  his  pen 
till  a  fufficient  fum  was  fubfcribed  to  bear 
the  charges  of  the  prefs.  But  in  September 
following,  urged  by  fome  friends,  he  refolved 
to  begin,  and  partly  on  that  account  clofed 
the  Obferver,  with  a  poftfcript,  in  which 
there  is  a  conditional  promife  to  renew  the 
eflays  at  a  future  period,  and  to  print,  in  a 
collective  form,  thofe  that  had  appeared. 

He  now  undertook  the  work  with  zeal, 
and  confidently  hoped  to  fmifh  it  within  fix 
months ;  but  this  hope  was  never  realized, 
he  was  feized  with  a  fever  which  carried  him 
to  his  grave. 

The  thread  of  this  narrative  has  now 
brought  me  to  an  awful,  afflicting,  and  in- 
terefting  fcene,  of  which,  though  I  was  my- 

felf 


HUGH  BOYD.  233 

felf  a  melancholy  fpeftator,  I  would  much 
rather  decline  the  defcription ;  but  reve- 
rence for  truth,  and  juftice  to  the  memory 
of  my  departed  friend,  oblige  me  to  dif- 
clofe  it. 

That  prodigality  of  all  worldly  benefits, 
and  perpetual  carelefTnefs  of  pecuniary  con- 
fiderations,  which  mifguided  the  early  years 
of  Mr.  Boyd,  attended  him  to  that  bed  of 
ficknefs,  on  which,  whatever  were  his  crimes, 
or  whatever  his  failings,  he  was  to  make  a 
final  expiation.     Though  imprudence  muft 
be  acknowledged  to  be  a  great  defect,  yet 
that  mind  can  boafl  of  little  liberality,  which 
magnifies  it  to  a  crime :  moft  men,  never- 
thelefs,  by  judging  of  characters  from   ap- 
pearances in  common  life,  and  by  being  ua- 
acquainted  with  the  latent  fprings  of  human 
action,   are  apt  indifcriminately  to  confider 
continued  imprudence  in  the  light  of  fraud. 
Mr.  Boyd,  who  had  attentively  ftudied 
the  great  volume  of  life,  muft  have  known 
the  truth  of  this  obfervation ;   but  perhaps 
he  never  experienced  it  until  the  approach 
of  his  diflblution. 

Bleffed 


234  LIFE  OF 

Blefled  with  a  vigorous  conftitution  and 
an  even  flow  of  fpirits,  he  pafTed  through  a 
chequered  and  buttling  life  without  having, 
till  now,  been  confined  with  any  ferious  ill- 
nefs.  The  fever  therefore,  which,  from  its 
beginning,  preyed  upon  his  vitals,  he  felt 
with  an  anguifh,  imbittered  by  reflection  on 
the  embarraifraent  of  his  affairs,  and  exaf- 
perated  by  the  calls  of  difappointed  credi- 
tors. Yet  his  mind,  fuperior  to  misfortune, 
difdained  the  language  of  forrow ;  and  his 
heart,  warmed  by  the  recollection  of  bene- 
volent actions,  folaced  itfelf  in  the  exercife 
of  religious  duties. 

Some  days  previous  to  his  death,  during 
a  paroxyfm  of  his  fever,  I  was  called  to 
take  my  laft  farewell, — to  tear  myfelf  from 
that  bofom  in  which  my  affections  had  fo 
long  repofed !  My  friend  was  extended  on 
his  bed,  his  once  expreffive  vifage  pale  and 
emaciated,  his  eyes  hollow  and  languid,  and 
his  voice  feeble  and  low.  He  ftretched  out 
his  hand  to  receive  me,  and  only  whifpered 
he  was  ill ; — but  the  big  tear  that  rolled  down 
his  flill  animated  countenance,  was  more 

intelligible 


HUGH   BOYD.  235 

intelligible    than    ail    the    figures   of   lan- 
guage. 

This  is  a  fcene  in  which  friendfhip  difco- 
vers  every  fecret  goodnefs,  and  at  the  fame 
time  finds   palliations  for  every  fault ;    in 
which  power  lofes  all  its  influence,  and  rival- 
ftiip  all   its  envy ;  in   which  diflipation  and 
folly  tremble,  and  vice  and  impiety  ftand 
appalled.      "  Whoever  would    know   how 
"  much  piety  and  virtue  furpafs  all  external 
"  good,  might  here  have  feen  them  weighed 
"  againft  each  other ;  where  all  that  gives 
"  motion  to  the  active,  and  elevation  to  the 
"  eminent ;  all  that  fparkles  in  the  eye  of 
"  hope,  or  pants  in  the  bofom  of  fufpicion, 
"  at  once  became  duft  in  the  balance,  with- 
"  out  weight  and  without  regard."     But  it 
did  not  fall  to  my  lot  to  attend  him  in  his 
laft  hour.     His  life  was  prolonged  for  a  few 
days  more,  and  he  expired  in  the  arms  of  a 
virtuous  and  enlightened  friend,  whom  he 
had  always   regarded  with  tendernefs,   and 
whofe    ablilities   he    had    always    admired. 
With  this  friend   I  was  fitting  in  the  fick 
room,  (the  laft  time  I  ever  fat  in  it)  when 
fuddenly  raifing  himfelf  in  his  bed,  he  called 

us 


236  LIFE    OF 

.us  near  him,  and  with  a  tremulous  voice, 
though  with  a, com pofure  and  clearnefs,  fel- 
dom  attainable  in  fuch  fituations,  fpoke  the 
following  lines  : 

In  life's  gay  flow,  when  all  obey 

The  fprightly  notes  of  Pleai'ure's  call ; 

Can  then  the  faithful  mirror  fay, 
I  fhewa  juft  original? 

In  fcenes  of  pow'r,  of  pomp,  and  place, 
Where  proud  Ambition's  vot'ries  bow; 

Can  there  the  mirror's  fhining  face, 
Of  life  a  true  refemblance  (hew  ? 

No!  'tis  not  where  Ambition's  hand 
Sweeps  o'er  the  polifh  roughly  warm  ; 

Nor  where  keen  Pleafure's  fighs  demand 
Her  flatt'ring  images  to  form. 

3Tis  there,  where  with  Reflection's  aid, 

And  purified  by  Pain, 
Man  contemplates  his  fickly  bed, — 

The  mirror  then  (nines  plain ! 

He  would  have  proceeded,  but  his  feel- 
ings were  unable  to  bear  thofe  reflections 
which  lie  had  already  conjured  up.  He 
burft  into  a  flood  of  tears^  and  reclined  again 
on  his  pillow. 

As 


HUGH    BOYD.  237 

As  his  fate  approached,  he  told  the  friend 
to  whom  I  have  above  alluded,  that  fome 
friends  had  abandoned  him : — yet,  though 
he  felt  this  defe&ion  with  the  keeneft  regret, 
no  expreflion  of  refentment,  no  emotion  of 
anger,  not  even  a  look  of  unkindnefs,  fullied 
the  purity  of  his  dying  fentiments ;  but  in 
forgiving  his  enemies,  and  in  offering  up  his 
prayers  to  the  Almighty,  for  his  kindred, 
his  friends,  his  country,  and  all  mankind, 
with  intire  refignation,  and  the  moft  perfect 
calmnefs,  he  breathed  his  laft  ! — Thus  ended 
the  life  of  this  great  and  extraordinary  man, 
at  once  remarkable  for  the  moft  brilliant 
talents,  and  the  moft  exalted  virtues, — for 
the  misfortunes  which  obfcured  the  one, 
and  for  the  follies  which  furrounded  the 
other. 

His  death  happened  on  the  ipth  of  Octo- 
ber 1794,  in  the  FORTY-EIGHTH  year  of 
his  age ;  a-nd  he  was  interred,  the  day  fol- 
lowing, in  the  New  Burying  Ground  at 
Madras. 

Among  the  number  who  mourn  the  lofs 
of  Mr.  Boyd,  are  his  widow,  a  fon  and 
daughter,  who  by  all  accounts  (hew  that  the 

genius 


238  LIFE   O* 

genius  of  their  father  furvives  ;  his  brother3 
Alexander  Macaulay,  Efq.  who  lives  on  the 
family  eftate  in  the  county  of  Antrim,  and 
who  is  married  to  a  fitter  of  the  prefent 
Lord  Vifcount  Gosford ;  and  his  filler, 
Mrs.  Godley,  a  lady  of  great  accomplifh- 
ments1,  and  many  virtues. 


1  nrl 

The  perfon  of  Mr.  Boyd  was  tall  and 
graceful,  formed  with  the  moft  exacl;  fym- 
metry  ;  his  mien  noble  and  elevated; 
his  countenance  animated  and  command- 
ing, and  his  deportment  exceedingly  ele- 
gant. 

He  poflefled  great  ftrength  and  agility  of 
body,  and  was  particularly  fond  of  all  ath- 
letick  exercifes,  in  many  of  which  he  ex- 
celled. 

In  the  hours  of  mirth  and  conviviality  he 
was  too  defirous  of  difplaying  his  fuperiority 
in  trifles ;  and  ufed  at  times  to  relax  his  dig- 
nity, and  mew  his  fkill  at  a  trick.  But  in 
thofe  practices  he  was  guided  much  by  his 
company ;  for  it  was  one  of  his  maxims, 
2  "  that 


HUfcH  BOVD. 

"  that  a  man  mould  always  endeavour  to 
*'  adapt  his  converfation  and  manners  to 
"  the  prevailing  tafte  of  his  company,  pro- 
t(  vided  the  doing  fo  did  not  violate  the  rules 
"  of  morality  or  decorum." 

In  focial  life  he  poffeffed,  in  an  eminent 
degree,  thofe  qualities  which  give  confidence 
to    fellowfhip,    and    zeal    to   benevolence ; 
which  give  incitement  to  charity,  and  a6H- 
vity  to  friendmip.      His  manners  were  fo 
captivating,    that  they    at   once  interefled 
every  affection  of  the  heart.     His  pleafantry 
and  humour  extorted  fmiles  from  the  in- 
flexible mifanthrope,  and  infufed  cheer  ful- 
nefs    into  the  breafts    of  the  difconfolate; 
The   perfualive  mildnefs    of  his   language 
conciliated  the  boifterous,  and  fubdued  the 
rude.     But  in  the  practice  of  thefe  virtues 
he  was  not  unaccompanied  by  the   neigh- 
bouring pafiions.      Regular  men  were  dif- 
pleafed  with  his  deviation  from  order,  and 
prudent  men  were  offended  with  his  total 
neglect  of  economy.      His  boundlefs  pro- 
fufion  was    generally  condemned,   and  his 
munificence    often    got    the   name  of  in- 
juftice. 

Yet 


24O  LIFE  OF 

Yet  if  his  generofity  gave  that  in  charity  j 
which  juflice  demanded  as  a  right,  the  un- 
deferving,  at  leaft,  never  fhared  in  the  dona- 
tion :  for  wifdom,  which  feemed  to  have 
forfaken  him  in  the  common  affairs  of  life, 
directed  his  mind  in  its  more  exalted  opera- 
tions, and  always  guided  him  in  his  chari- 
table diftributions.  Though  from  diftrefs, 
in  whatever  form  it  appeared,  he  never 
could  withhold  immediate  relief,  yet  to  vice 
or  idlenefs  he  never  deliberately  gave  encou- 
ragement. Under  his  roof,  where  every 
man  who  wanted  a  home,  found  a  ready 
admittance,  hofpitality  was  by  confequence 
fometimes  mifapplied ;  which  although  his 
penetration  foon  perceived,  his  exceffive  de- 
licacy and  politenefs  would  not  allow  him  to 
remedy.  Let  not,  therefore,  thofe  immenfe 
fums  of  money  which  he  lavifhed  away, 
be  intirely  placed  to  the  account  of  his  own 
extravagance ;  for  they  were  at  times  aug- 
mented by  the  folly  or  fordid nefs  of  others, 
and,  in  a  few  inftances,  by  thofe  vultures  of 
office,  who  prey  on  the  unfufpecling  can- 
dour and  generofity  of  their  mailer's  difpo- 
fition. 

In 


HUGH   BOYD.  24! 

In  his  friendly  attachments  he  was  lefs 
frequently  miftaken  ;  for  he  founded  them 
on  the  broad  bafis  of  difinterefted  principle. 
Difference  of  fentiment,  diftruft,  and  jea- 
loufy,  the  moft  formidable  enemies  to  friend- 
fhip,  found  no  place  in  his  bread :  there,  all 
was  equable,  fmooth,  and  gentle. 

The  warmth  of  affection  which  he  bore 
his  friends,  feemed  at  times  to  border  on 
prejudice ;  and  he  was  too  apt  to  hide  their 
blemifhes,  by  magnifying  their  perfections  : 
yet,  if  his  applaufes  were  fometimes  unqua- 
lified, his  cenfures  were  always  fparing.  Of 
him  it  may  be  faid,  in  the  words  of  that  great 
flatefman  and  orator,  whofe  eloquence  and 
patriotifm  have  been  fo  long  the  pride  of  his 
country,  and  the  admiration  of  Europe, — 
"  that  his  enmities  were  placable — his  friend- 
"  (hips  eternal  *." 

In  private  company  Mr.  Boyd  never  in- 
dulged in  perfonal  ridicule.  Scandal  he 
defpifed  with  becoming  dignity  :  he  always 
endeavoured  to  Rifle  every  petty  whifper  of 

malevolence;     and  m  his  converfation  he 

. 

*  "  Amititiaftmpiterna,  inlmlcitta  placabiles." 
I 

VOL.  I.  was 


2|2  LIFE  Of 

was  fo  particularly  cautious  and  corre£t,  that 
I  do  not  remember  ever  to  have  heard  him 
infinuate,  much  lefs  openly  exprefs,  any 
thing  injurious  to  a  private  character. 

Entering  early  into  life  with  a  mind  dif- 
curfive  and  powerful,  and  a  judgment  pe- 
netrating, definite,  and  clear,  he  attained  a 
very  extenfive  and  accurate  knowledge  of 
mankind ;  which  important  advantage,  aided 
by  a  vivid  imagination,  embellifhed  with  all 
the  graces  of  learning,  gave  him  a  pre-emi- 
nence in  familiar  converfation,  that  cannot 
eafily  be  equalled,  and  has  been  feldom  fur- 
pafled. 

He  could  accommodate  himfelf  to  every 
company  and  to  every  mind,  and  poflefled 
the  rare  quality  of  diffufing  pleafure  where- 
ever  he  appeared.  In  mixt  fociety,  the 
quicknefs  of  his  apprenenfion  allowed  no- 
thing to  efcape  his  notice:  his  mind  was 
always  prefent,  and  his  whole  powers  ready 
at  every  call.  He  could  vary  his  fubjefts 
with  the  utmoft  promptitude,  and  examine 
each  with  equal  precifion  ; — with  the  ferious 
he  could  be  moral ;  with  the  fludious  he 
could  be  learned ;  with  the  polite  he  could 

be 


HUGH    BOYD.  243 

be  elegant ;  with  the  gay  he  could  be  witty ; 
with  the  frolickfome  he  could  be  humor- 
ous ;  and  with  the  unlettered  he  could  be 
plain. 

At  his  convivial  board  his  wit  fparkled 
with  every  glafs,  and  his  jocularity  flowed 
as  plentifully  as  his  wine;  but  it  was  the 
charms  of  the  one,  rather  than  the  excel- 
lence of  the  other,  that  allured  his  guefts, 
and  detained  them  till  a  late  hour ;  for  even 
his  meals  were  a  feaft  for  the  underftand- 
ing*. 

On  thefe  occafions,  he,  at  times,  became 
a  keen  polemick,  and  engaged  warmly  in 
literary  and  political  difputes  :  but  his  argu- 
mentative powers  were  not  commenfurate 
with  his  other  qualifications.  His  imagina- 
tion was  greater  than  his  judgment ;  and  his 
reafoning,  therefore,  though  dextrous  and 
fpecious,  had  little  folidity  or  depth.  His 
hearers,  however,  were  always  delighted,  if 
not  always  convinced. 

In  the  warmth  of  difputation,  he  oc,ca- 
fionally  mewed  fome  flight  degree  of  arro- 

*  Ut  voluptates  quoque  ftudiis  condlantur.      PUNV. 

g  2  gance. 


244  LIFE  OF 

gance.  To  maintain  a  Favourite  pofition, 
he  would  pour  forth  a  torrent  of  learning, 
and  dare  the  confutation  of  his  antagonift : 
and  in  fcrutinizing  publick  chara&ers  he 
was,  perhaps,  too  much  influenced  by  his 
feelings.  Yet  in  the  heat  of  difcuffion,  he 
was  always  agreeable :  he  never  foiled  his 
lips  with  the  breath  of  animofity,  far  lefs 
with  the  meannefs  of  perfonal  allulion. 
The  fuavity  of  his  manners  he  preferved 
inviolate.  In  his  converfation,  there  was  no 
violence,  no  harfhnefs,  no  afperity ;  nothing 
loud,  nor  coarfe,  nor  rude ;  all  was  mild, 
and  eafy,  and  elegant. 

When  argument  at  any  time  ran  high, 
or  tended  to  produce  any  ferious  difcord, 
he  would  ingenioufly  change  the  converfa- 
tion by  a  humorous  fally ;  and  if  any  angry 
difputant  mould  not  yet  be  difpofed  to  yield, 
he  would  with  admirable  quicknefs  turn  his 
fyllogifms  into  an  epigram,  and  tell  him 
with  an  irrefiftible  pleafantry,  "  Now,  my 
"  friend,  do  indulge  us  with  an  armiftice."  In 
turning  thofe  epigrams  he  was  often  parti- 
cularly happy ;  and  although  he  was  too  fond 
of  interlarding  them  with  puns,  which,  like 

other 


HUGH    BOYD.  245 

other  puns,  were  frequently  infipid,  yet  they 
feldom  failed  to  excite  applaufe,  and  pro- 
mote cheerfulnefs. 

In  female  fociety,  he  preferved  his  mer- 
riment with  delicacy,  and  his  wit  with 
graceful nefs,  without  lofing  its  point,  ,Qf 
the  Belle  AJfcmblee,  he  was  an  ardent  admirer, 
and  he  joined  the  fprightly  circle  with  fre- 
quent delight :  but  the  licentioufnefs  of  the 
drawing-room  he  unrefervedly  condemned. 
That  reftlefs  propenfity  to  game — that  Ca- 
coethes  akatorium,  which  renders  morbid 
every  generous  principle  in  youth,  and 
pollutes  the  hoary  honours  of  age ;  which 
difgraces  the  faireft  forms,  and  corrupts  the 
pureft  hearts, — found  an  enemy  in  Boyd, 
who,  though  goaded  by  a  wild  extravagance, 
had  never  been  driven  into  its  fnares.  He 
admoniflied  its  deluded  votaries,  not  lefs  by 
precept*,  than  example. 

Of  .his  intellectual  elements,  his  imagina- 
tion was  the  moft  powerful  and  active.  His 

*  Whoever  wifhes  to  know  his  deteflation  of  this  vice, 
will  find  the  fubjeft  treated  in  a  very  mafterly  and  ele- 
gant manner,  in  the  ninth  number  of  the  Indian  Obferver, 
Vol.  II.  page  152,  of  thefe  works. 

2  genius 


LIFE    OF 

genius  bold,  afpiring,  and  adventurous,  form» 
ed  conceptions  beyond  the  bounds  of  fub- 
lunary  nature ;  and  his  judgment  was  only 
not  vigorous,  when  it  endeavoured  to  re- 
ftrain  his  fancy.  His  mind  in  all  its  opera- 
tions was  aflifted  by  a  curiofity  perpetually 
awake,  and  a  comprehenfive  capacity  of  ob- 
fervation  ;— by  an  intuitive  perception,  a  te- 
nacious memory,  and  an  underftanding  that 
could  aflbciate  the  remote  and  the  familiar 
—the  beautiful  and  the  grand. 

But  the  diftinguifhing  qualities  of  his  mind, 
were  memory,  clearnefs,  and  perfpicacity, 
What  he  had  once  heard,  or  read,  he  never 
forgot.  He  could  repeat  all  the  paffages 
that  he  mod  admired,  and  thefe  were  of 
courfe  very  numerous,  in  the  writings  of 
Demoflhenes  and  Cicero,  of  Thucydides 
and  Tacitus,  of  Bacon,  Machiavel,  and 
Montefquieu.  In  poetry,  his  favourite  au- 
thors were  Homer  and  Milton,  and  he  could 
repeat  feveral  books  of  the  Iliad,  and  of 
Paradife  Loft,  from  the  beginning  to  the 
end.  The  fpeeches  that  he  had  heard  in 
parliament,  or  in  the  courts  of  law,  he  air 
ways  remembered,  not  only  in  fubftance, 

but 


HUGH  BOYD.  247 

but  in  the  very  form  and  phrafe  in  which 
they  were  fpoken.  And  even  in  familiar 
converfation,  whatever  interefled  his  mind, 
never  again  efcaped  it. 

The  ftrength  of  his  memory,  and  the 
clearnefs  of  his  underftanding  were  fuch, 
that  he  could  make  arithmetical  calculations 
of  confiderable  length  and  intricacy  intirely 
in  his  mind  :  without  taking  down  a  fingle 
unit,  he  could  in  a  fhort  fpace  of  time  mul- 
tiply nine  given  figures,  by  other  nine,  and 
give  the  produci;  and  in  the  fame  manner 
he  could,  in  the  courfe  of  an  hour,  refolve 
any  queftion  in  the  Rule  of  Three,  or  in 
Vulgar  FraBions.  In  playing  at  his  favour- 
ite game  of  chefs,  he  would  walk  about  the 
room,  and  while  he  was  converling  with 
feeming  attention  on  other  fubje&s,  dictate 
the  moves  to  another  perfon,  from  being 
told  the  fituation  of  his  adverfary's  pieces, 
and  the  moves  he  had  made,  without  once 
looking  at  the  board  himfelf. 

Yet,  notwithftanding  thefe  uncommon 
inftances  of  a  piercing  and  vigorous  intel- 
lect, notwithftanding  the  logical  precifion 
and  arrangement  of  his  thoughts,  he  pof- 

feflW 


OF 

fefTed  not  that  flrong  reflecting  faculty  by 
which  the  human  mind  is  enabled  to  invef- 
tigate  the  whole  procefs  of  its  own  opera- 
tions, to  follow  up  the  chain  of  abftracl 
reafoning,  and  to  explore  the  fources  of 
metaphyfical  truths.  But  his  mind  had  an 
extenfive  grafp.  He  contemplated  the  uni- 
verfe  with  the  poetick  eye  of  philofophy, 
and  embraced  at  once  all  the  various  orga- 
nizations, not  only  'of  the  moral,  but  the 
material  world. 

His  learning,  like  his  genius,  was  more 
fplendid  than  profound.  He  feafled  on  all 
the  'fruits,  but  had  not  thoroughly  Cultivated 
the  foil  of  the  literary  garden.  He  had 
made  a  general  furvey  of  every  region  of 
human  knowledge ;  but  his  particular  re- 
fearches  were  confined  to  claflical  learning, 
morals,  and  politicks. 

With 'the  belles  lettres,  and  with  the  lite- 
rary 'and  civil  hiftories  of  every  age  and 
nation,  he  was  familiarly  acquainted.  He 
read  the  clafficks,  both  of  ancient  and  mo- 
dern Europe,  in  their  original  drefs.  In  the 
Latin  and  'French  languages  he  was  emi- 
nently fkilful ;  and  his  knowledge^of  Greek 

was 


HUGH    BOYD.  249 

was  fo  confiderable,  that  one  would  have 
imagined  he  had  been  all  his  life  a  re- 
clufe  fcholar,  rather  than  a  man  of  the 
world. 

Endowed  with  a  tafte,  by  nature  moil 
exquifitely  delicate,  and  refined  by  the  ele- 
gancies of  the  Attick  fchool,  he  was  nice  in 
polite  criticifm,  without  being  faftidious, 
and  fevere  in  philology,  without  being  pe- 
dantick. 

Of  the  ftage  he  was  an  enthufiaftick  ad- 
mirer, and  on  dramatick  poetry,  as  well  as 
on  dramatick  reprefentations,  a  critick  of 
great  acumen,  judgment,  and  tafte.  On 
this  fubjecl:,  his  opinions  were  not  formed 
from  the  polifhed  models  of  the  Grecian, 
ftill  lefs  from  the  forced  correftnefs  of  the 
Parifian  ftage ;  they  were  drawn  from  the 
originals  of  nature,  as  reprefented  in  the 
diverfified  fcenery  of  the  immortal  genius 
of  Britain. 

To  talents  fo  polifhed,  wit  fo  refined, 
learning  fo  amplified,  and  tafte  fo  chaftened, 
had  Mr.  Boyd  applied  himfelf  to  the  cul- 
tivation of  dramatick  poetry,  he  would, 
doubtlefs,  have  added  ornaments  to  the 

Englifli 


LIFE    OF 


Englifh  ftage,  which,  with  its  declining  ele- 
gance and  morality,  could  have  alone  de- 
cayed. 


HAVING  already  faid  fo  much  re- 
fpefting  Mr.  Boyd's  political  writings,  I 
Ihould  not  now  offer  another  word  on  the 
fubjecl;  of  them,  but  that  I  conceive  it 
neceffary  to  expofe  the  abfurdity,  if  not  the 
malignity,  of  Mr.  Chalmers's  attempt,  to 
calumniate  the  memory  of  my  friend. 

Mr.  Chalmers  has  told  the  publick, 
"  that  Mr.  Boyd  was  an  UNITED  IRISH- 
"MAN,  by  birth,  by  habit,  and  by  practice." 
To  have  eftablifhed  the  truth  of  this  affer- 
tion,  it  was  in  the  firft  place  requifite  for  him 
to  prove,  that  a  Republican  CONSPIRACY 
actually  exifted  in  IRELAND  at  the  time  of 
Mr.  Boyd's  birth,  that  is,  in  Oftober  1746; 
and  in  the  next  place,  it  was  effential  to 
fhew,  that  Mr.  Boyd's  political  principles, 
opinions,  and  connexions,  were  the  fame  as 
thofe  of  an  United  Irijhman.  Now,  with  re- 
gard to  a  republican  confpiracy  in  Ireland, 

in 


HUGH   BOYD.  251 

in  the  year  1746, 1  believe  it  never  did  exift, 
except  in  the  imagination  of  Mr.  Chalmers ; 
for  it  is  an  undeniable  fad,  that  no  mention 
is  made  by  any  cotemporary  writer,  of  any 
fuch  confpiracy.  And  as  to  the  idea  of 
tracing  the  origin  of  the  recent  rebellion  in 
Ireland,  to  fome  petty  Catholick  plot  that 
may  have  happened  fifty  years  ago,  it  is  too 
ridiculous  to  merit  a  fingle  obfervation. 

With  regard  to  Mr.  Boyd's  political  con- 
nexions, the  reader  already  knows,  that 
they  were  of  the  firft  refpe&ability  in  the 
kingdom,  not  only  for  their  rank  and  ta- 
lents, but  for  their  fteady  loyalty  to  his 
Majefty's  family,  and  their  confequent  at- 
tachment to  the  genuine  principles  of  the 
Britifh  conftitution.  Thefe  principles  are 
fleadfaftly  maintained  throughout  the  whole 
of  Mr.  Boyd's  writings,  and  though  there 
are  a  few  infulated  expreffions  in  tjunius, 
which  may  be  thought  feditious,  and  which, 
therefore,  I  am  very  far  from  defending,  I 
do  believe  that  Junius  was  a  much  fincerer, 
and  furely  he  was  a  more  able  friend  to 
the  Crown  of  England,  than  Mr.  George 
Chalmers//  He  who  truly  loves  his  KING, 

muft 


252  LIFE    OF 

muft  firft  love  his  COUNTRY.  'No  man 
can  really  regard  the  rights  of  the  one, 
who  does  not  cherifh  the  liberties  of  the 
other. 

But  Mr.  Boyd,  fo  far  from  having  afted 
upon  the  principles  of  an  United  Irijhman, 
was  in  facl  a  profefled  enemy  to  a  republi- 
can form  of  government.  Let  him  fpeak 
for  himfelf — "  I  can  more  readily  admire," 
-fays  Junius,  "  the  liberal  fpirit  and  inte- 
-"  grity,  than  the  found,  judgment  of  any 
*'•  man,  who  prefers  a  republican  form  of 
"  government,  in  this,  or  in  any  other  empire 
'"  of  equal  extent,  to  a  monarchy,  fo  qualified 
"  and  limited  as  ours.  I  am  convinced,  that 
(t  neither  is  it  in  theory  the  wife/I  fyftem  of 
"  government,  nor  practicable  in  this  country. 
"  Yet,  though  I  hope  that  the  Englifh  con- 
-*'  ftitution  will  for  ever  preferve  its  original 
"  monarchical  form,  I  would  have  the  man- 
"  ners  of  the  people  purely  and  ftriftly  re- 
"  publican.  I  do  not  mean  the  licentious 
"fpirit  of  anarchy  and  riot.  I  mean  a  ge- 
"  neral  attachment  to  the  common  weal, 
"  diftincl:  from  any  partial  attachment  to 
t:  perfons  or  families ;  an  implicit  fubmiffion 

"to 


HUGH  BQYD.'  253 

"  to  the  laws  only ;  and  an  affection  to  the 
"  magiftrate,  proportioned  to  the  integrity 
"  and  wifdom  with  which  he  diftributes  juftice 
"  to  his  people,  and  adminifters  their  af- 
«  fairs." 

This  I  know  Mr.  Chalmers  will  not  ad- 
mit to  be  found  conftitutional  do&rine,  but 
this  I  know  was  the  good  old-fafhioned 
doftrine  of  our  anceftors,  and  that  to  which 
England  owes  all  her  profperity  and  glory 
— all  her  power  and  greatnefs.  This  too 
was  the  rational  doftrine  which  Mr.  Boyd 
taught  to  the  people  of  Ireland,  and  not, 
as  Mr.  Chalmers  malicioufly  and  unjuftly 
inlinuateSj  thofe  wild  and  dangerous  chimeras 
by  which  they  have  been  lately  deluded. 
"RATIONAL,  —  LEGAL  LIBERTY,"  .fays 
Mr.  Boyd,  in  the  Freeholder ;  "  and  ONLY 
"  THAT,  is  intended  to  be  praifed ;  which 
"  differs  as  effentially  from  the  rude  riot  of 
"  licentioufnefs,  as  wifdom  is  diftincl;  from 
"  madnefs,  or  as  reafon  excels  brutality. 
"  The  admirable  Milton  has  well  diftm- 
"  guifhed,  where  he  inveighs  againit  the 
"  hypocrites  of  this  virtue  in  the  extreme. 
"  As  the  paffage  well  expofes  the  falfe  pre- 

"  tenfions 


254  LIFE   OF 

"  tenfions  to  it,  and  in  the  fame  proportion 
"  extols  the  truth,  permit  me  to  clofe  thefe 
"  obfervations  with  it." 


"  They  bawl  for  FREEDOM  in  their  fenfelefs  mood, 
*'  Yet  quarrel  with  the  hand  that  makes  them  free. 
"  Licence  they  mean,  when  they  cry  LIBERTY  ; 

"  FOR  WHO    LOVES  THAT,    MUST   FIRST    BE  WISE  AND 
"  GOOD." 


In  another  place  he  declares—"  I  do  not 
"  beat  the  drum  of  faElion,  nor  found  the 
"  trumpet  off  edition:  for  I  do  moft  pojitwtly 
"  and  folemnly  protejl  myfelfa  zealous  friend 
"  to  the  CONSTITUTION  as  ESTABLISHED 
"  IN  CHURCH  AND  STATE." 

Such  is  the  language  in  which  Mr. 
Chalmers  s  United  Irifhman  addrefles  the 
people  of  Ireland,  and  fuch  the  principles 
which  he  inculcated :  and  if  the  reader  mould 
require  an  expolition  of  thefe  principles, 
I  recommend  to  him  to  perufe  with  atten- 
tion the  fecond  letter  of  the  Freeholder,  in 
which  he  will  find  an  abftracT:  of  the  Britifh 
conftitution,  not  adapted,  perhaps,  to  Mr. 
Chalmers's  political  tafle,  but  ftriftly  con- 
formable to  the  theory  of  oqr  government. 

Refpea- 


HUGH   BOYD.  255- 

Refpe&ing  the  RE  VOLU  TION  in  FR  AN  c  E, 
Mr.  Boyd  faw,  at  its  very  commencement, 
the  falfe  and  definitive  principles  of  thofe 
extravagant  fpeculations  by  which  it  was 
effected,  and  which  prefumptuoufly  talked 
of  diforganizing  and  new  modelling  the  whole 
frame  of  civil  fociety  :  and  he  thought  them 
altogether  fo  inconfiftent  with  any  fyftem 
of  rational  and  practicable  freedom  in  any 
country,  that  an  attempt  to  realize  them  in 
France,  would  madden  the  deluded  people, 
produce  the  moft  ferocious  anarchy,  and 
inftead  of  eftablifhing  a  free  government, 
would  ere6l  a  military  defpotifm.  He  alfo 
thought,  that  the  French  poflefled  not  that 
fteadinefs  and  fobriety  of  character,  by  which 
liberty  can  alone  be  preferved.  In  the  year 
1791,  he  received  a  letter  on  this  important 
fubjeft  from  his  friend  Mr.  Edmund  Burke, 
together  with  a  copy  of  his  celebrated  RE- 
FLECTIONS, the  perufal  of  which,  ofcourfe, 
confirmed  Mr.  Boyd's  opinions :  and  of 
thofe  opinions  he  has  fortunately  left  a  fuf- 
ficient  record. 

In  the  21  ft  No.  of  the  Indian  Obferver, 
which  was  publifhed  in  January  1794,  after 

making 


256  LIFE  OF 

making  fome  obfervations  on  the  powerful 
effe&s  of  eloquence  in  the  free  ftates  of 
antiquity,  he  fays,— "From  thefe  premifes, 
"  the  modern  eye  naturally  turns  to  that 
"  unhappy  country,  which  for  four  fatal 
"  years  has  been  the  theatre  of  national  ca- 
"  lamity.  And  he  who  traces  the  progrefs 
"  of  that  calamitous  drama,  from  the  firft 
"  aft  of  depontion  of  royalty  in  the  national 
"  fenate,  to  the  murderous  cataftrophe  on 
"  the  national  fcafFold,  will  fee  how  the 
<s  abufe  of  popular  eloquence  prevailed  to 
"  madden  the  multitude  ;  and  if  not  intend- 
"  ed  to  effect  the  final  mifchief,  as  lately  has 
"  been  fuggefted  in  fome  poflhumous  proofs, 
"  yet  how  fatally  powerful  it  was  to  light  a 
"  flame  which  could  not  be  extinguimed. 
"The  extraordinary  talents  of  Mirabeau, 
"  and  their  omnipotent  erfecl  in  the  Aflem- 
"  bly  of  France,  are  too  well  known.  And 
"  though  it  may  be  fome  confolation  to 
"  thofe,  whofe  love  of  human  nature  revolts 
"  from  the  unnatural  aff^ciation  of  the 
"  blacked  vices  with  the  brighteft  abilities, 
"  to  find  that  his  were  not  the  principles 

"  which 


HUGH  BOYD.  257 

"  which  have  been  fince  afted  .upon  to  the 
"  horror  of  mankind* 

"  But  to  turn  to  the  more  pleafing  view 
"  of  the  fubjecl:,  where  the  fined  talents 
"  combat  on  the  fide  of  truth,  we  have  feen 
"  their  triumph  in  the  nobleft  caufe,  in  the 

f:  CAUSE    OF    RELIGION,    LAW,    AND     OR- 

"  D  E  R  ;  in  defence  of  every  facred  poft  and 
te  barrier,  ESSENTIAL,  not  alone  to  the  SE- 
"  CURITY  and  HAPPINESS  OF  MANKIND, 
"  but  to  the  very  EXISTENCE  OF  SOCIETY. 
"  The  fublime  comprehenfion  of  that  pene- 
"  trating  genius  *,  who  in  the  early  dawn 
"  of  democracy,  faw  the  deftru&ive  princi- 
"  pie  of  general  conflagration  that  was  to 
"  flame  in  its  meridian,  gave  the  alarm  to 
"  the  world ;  and  his  warning  voice  was 
"  heard.  The  baleful  influence,  threatening 
"  every  confine  of  humanity,  was  averted; 
"  and  the  portentous  meteor,  confumed  in 
"  its  own  fires,  will  pafs  away  for  ever." 

Thus  then  it  appears  that  the  aflertion  of 
Mr.  Chalmers  is  at  once  groundlefs  and 
abfurd ;  and  he  has,  therefore,  thought 

*  Mr.  Burke. 

VOL.  j.  r  it 


258  LIFE    OF 

it  becoming  his  character  to  propagate  an 
idle  calumny,  to  endeavour  to  revile  the 
memory  of  one  who  never  injured  him,  to 
violate  the  fanftity  of  the  tomb,  and  to 
rake  up  the  ames  of  the  dead,  to  gratify 
his  refentment  againft  the  living.  What 
morality  is  this  ?  -  Is  /  this  the  man  who 
cenfures  the  morals  of  Junius?  Is  this 
the  man  who  complains  fo  bitterly  of  the 
malevolence  of  Mr.  MATHIAS  ?  Is  this 
the  man  who  is  conftantly  profeffing  his 
regard  for  candour  and  truth  ?  Is  this  the 
man  who  takes  Do6tor  Johnfon  for  his  mo- 
del ?  Or  is  it  only  thejlyle  *  of  that  'great 
man,  which  he  thinks  worthy  of  imitation? 

But  with  his  tafle  in  morals,  or  in  litera- 
ture, I  have  no  other  concern,  than  as  it 
regards  my  friend.  Dulnefs  may  be  de- 
fpifed,  though  malignity  cannot  be  excufed  ; 
but  when  we  find  them  united,  difguft  and 
indignation  rum  irrefiftibly  on  the  mind. 
If,  however,  I  had  not  judged  of  his  calumny 

*  See  Chalmers's  Life  of  Rudiman,  a  work,  which,  to 
any  man  well  acquainted  with  Johnfon's  ftyle,  will  afford 
as  much  amufcment  as  one  of  Foote's  belt  farces. 

:   »  2.  by 


HUGH   BOYD.  259 

by  the  rancour  which  gave  it  birth,  rather 
than  by  the  manner  in  which  it  is  expreffed, 
I  fhould  have  allowed  it  to  die  forgotten  and 
unremoved,  along  with  the  learned  lumber 
of  his  Supplemental  Apology. 

The  other  productions  of  Mr.  Boyd, 
which  I  have  prefented  to  the  publick,  re- 
quire little  apology  or  explanation  ;  they 
are  written  with  lefs  ardour  of  ftyle  and  fen- 
timent,  than  his  political  competitions,  but 
they  are  neverthelefs  highly  worthy  of  pre- 
fervationj  and  no  way  derogatory  from  his 
genius.  • 

The  Journal  of  his  EmbafTy  to  Candy 
will  be  found  extremely  entertaining.  It  is 
written  with  that  unaffected  naivete  of  lan- 
guage, which  is  the  greateft  beauty  of  fuch 
a  performance;  and  there  is  an  agreeable 
and  unclouded  cheerfulnefs  throughout  the 
whole  of  it,  which  appears  extraordinary 
amidft  the  difficulties  and  fatigue  of  a  toil.- 
fome  and  vexatious  journey ;  and  which  il- 
luftrates  the  peculiarity  of  his  genuine  hu- 
mour, as  well  as  of  the  mild  but  intrepid 
r  2  refolution, 


260  1,1  F£  OF 

refolution,   that  dignified  and  diftinguifhed 
his  character. 

The  few  Poems  which  appear  at  the  end 
of  the  firft  volume,  were  the  amufements  of 
an  idle  hour ;  and  I  publifh  them  merely  to 
fhew  the  never-failing  playfulnefs  of  his 
difpofition,  as  well  as  the  cordial  tendernefs 
of  his  heart.  If  they  difplay  not  any  thing 
of  that  brilliancy  and  animation  which 
might  have  been  expecled  from  him,  they 
at  leaft  contain  very  elegant  and  pleafing 
lines. 

In  his  E  flays  in  the  Indian  Obferver,  if 
there  be  not  any  novelty  of  fubjecl;,  or  nice 
diftinftions  in  morals  and  criticifm,  they  at 
leaft  reprefent  the  pure  and  immutable  prin- 
ciples of  private  ethics  in  a  lively  and 
pleafing  manner,  and  enforce  the  efficacy  of 
virtue  and  religion  with  the  fimple  energy 
of  truth.  And  when  the  reader  is  informed 
that  thefe  Eflays  were  generally  compofed 
amidft  the  buftle  of  bufinefs,  or  the  frolicks 
of  hilarity,  without  either  care  or  prepara- 
tion, he  will  be  indulgent  to  the  blemifhes 
which  he  may  find  they  contain, 

It 


HUGH   BOYD.  26l 

It  has  indeed  been  objected  to  the  Indian 
Obferver,  that  he  is  not  fufficiently  Afiatick ; 
that  his  obfervations  do  not  embrace  fo  wide 
a  fphere  of  life  as  might  have  been  expe&ed; 
for  that  he  mould  have  delineated  the  cha- 
racter of  the  native  inhabitants  of  India. 
But  it  fhould  be  recolle&ed  that  this  was 
foreign  to  Mr.  Boyd's  purpofe;  which  was 
to  inftrucl;  and  amufe  the  Englifli  fociety  at 
Madras,  on  thofe  fubje&s  to  which  he 
conceived  they  paid  too  little  attention.  His 
grand  object  was  to  animate  the  provinces 
with  the  fpirit  of  the  mother-country  ;  by 
the  inculcation  of  moral  truths,  by  roufing 
the  paflions  on  the  fide  of  virtue,  by  infufing 
a  defire  for  the  purfuits  of  polite  literature, 
and  a  tafte  for  the  curiofities  of  art.  He 
lamented,  that  in  India  fo  great  a  portion  of 
time  was  devoted  to  the  avocation  of  office, 
and  laudably  endeavoured  to  infpire  his 
countrymen  with  more  elevated  fentiments. 
He  told  them  in  the  words  of  Moliere, 

A  de  plus  hauls  objets  elevez  vos  defirs, 

Songez  a  prendre  un  gout  des  plus  nobles  plaifirs. 

That  he  has  executed  his  defign  with  dig- 
nity, will  not,  I  believe,  be  denied  ;   though 

from 


262  LIFE    OF 

from  negligence  on  fome  fubjecls,  he  is  lax 
and  undefined.  On  morals,  as  on  litera- 
ture, his  fentiments  are  liberal,  his  tafte  is 
pure,  his  judgment  exacl,  and  his  diction 
always  perfpicuous,  eafy,  and  elegant. 

Throughout  the  whole  of  his  writings  he 
may,  with  a  few  exceptions,  be  faid  to  have 
preferved  the  medium  fo  elegantly  defcribed 
by  the  Abbe  MAURY,  "that  keeps  be- 
"  tween  the  extreme  of  neglecting  applicar 
"  tion,  which  adds  to  the  defects  of  tafte, 
(t  and  the  excefs  of  labour,  which  deadens 
"  the  tranfports  of  genius."  And  in  the 
letters  of  Junius,  as  well  as  in  his  other  poli- 
tical productions,  he  has  attained  that  ner- 
vous fimplicity  of  language,  which  is  at 
once  familiar  without  being  common,  eafy 
without  being  feeble,  concife  without  being 
forced,  energetick  without  conftraint,  rapid 
without  irregularityp  fpirited  without  vehe- 
mence, and  fevere  without  harfhnefs. 

Verba  togafequeris,  junflura  callldus  acri^    „ 
Ore  teres  modico,  paHentes  radere  mores 
Defius  y  ingenuo  culpam  defigere  ludo* . 


*  Perf.  Sat.  V. 

SUCH 


HUGH  BOYD.  263 

SUCH  is  the  Life  and  Charader  of 
HUGH  BOYD,  delineated,  I  hope,  with  the 
integrity  of  truth,  though  it  may  be,  I  have 
at  times  imperceptibly  leaned  to  the  fide  of 
friendship.  If  for  this  I  mould  be  con- 
demned by  the  auflerity  of  Juftice,  I  have 
yet  an  appeal  to  Benevolence,  from  whom  I 
fhall  expecl  a  milder  fentence.  But  let  not 
even"  Juftice  too  rafhly  frown,  for  mature 
reflection  may  foften  her  decree. 

In  eftimating  the  qualities  of  Boyd,  much 
candour  and  confideration  is  required.  It  is 
neceflary  to  diftinguim  his  foibles  from  thofe 
of  others.  Moft  men  only  (hew  to  the  world 
their  fair  fides,  concealing,  under  a  dazzling 
varnifh,  innumerable  faults ;  whereas  his 
frailties,  however  great,  appeared  open  as 
day,  whilft  fome  of  the  nobleft  virtues,  like 
diamonds  in  the  mine,  were  impervious  to  the 
fight  of  the  fuperficial  obferver.  If  there  are 
thofe  who  mould  tax  the  juftnefs  of  this  ob- 
fervation,  and  who  to  his  imperfections  fhould 
give  a  harfher  name,  let  them  reflect  on  the 
frailties  incident  to  nature,  and  the  muta- 
bility of  their  own  condition  ;  let  them  ' 

learn, 


264  LIFE   OF 

learn,  in  the  fublirne  language  of  Shake- 
fpeare,  the  duty  of  fellowmip,  and  the  ami- 
ablenefs  of  candour. 

—  Ho\y  would  you  be, 

If  he  who  is  the  top  of  judgment  fiiould 
But  judge  you  as  you  are  ?  Oh!  think  on  that, 
And  mercy  will  then  breathe  within  your  lipsf< 
Like  man  new  made. 

If  in  tracing  the  wanderings  of  a  friend's 
life,  I  have  been  led  into  greater  length  than 
I  forefaw,  I  requefl  my  readers  to  examine 
their  own  hearts,  and  if  there  they  find  no 
apology  for  that  fondnefs  which  deludes 
reafon,  and  "  bathes  the  fpirits  in  delight," 
in  contemplating  the  genius  and  virtues  of 
a  departed  friend,  even  the  eloquent  fenfibi- 
lity  of  a  Jaffier  may  plead  in  vain.  The 
firft  duty  of  a  Biographer  is  to  lay  open  the 
lights  and  {hades  of  his  hero's  character, 
and  by  the  ftrong  effect  of  finifhed  colour- 
ing, to  encourage  the  modefly  of  virtuous 
indigence,  and  reprefs  the  infolence  of  prof- 
perous  vice.  How  well  I  have  performed 
this  duty,  it  remains  for  the  publick  to  de- 
termine. I  fhall  wait1  their  decifion  with 

anxiety, 


HUGH   BOYD.  265 

anxiety,  but  not  without  confidence;  for 
having  contributed  my  mite  to  the  caufe  of 
Friendfhip,  Virtue,  and  Truth,  I  (hall  at 
leaft  be  intitled  to  the  praife  of  having 
endeavoured  well. 


APPENDIX. 


A  PPEND  I  X 


T  O 


THE    LIFE, 


A  Letter  from  Mr.  J.  ALMON,  to  L.  D.  CAMPBELL,  Efq, 
containing  form  Jlrong  circumftantial  Proofs  of  Mr,  BOYD 
having  been  the  real  Author  0/"JuNius. 

Box-Moor,  near  Hemel-Hempftead,  Herts, 
December  10,  1798. 

SIR, 


reafons  for  believing  that  the  letters  figned  Juniu$> 
were  written  by  the  late  Mr.  Hugh  Boyd,  are  founded 
upon  the  following  circumftances. 

During  the  autumn  of  the  year  1769,  I  believe  in  the 
month  of  O&ober,  a  meeting  of  the  Proprietors  of  the 
London  Evening  Poji  was  held  at  the  Queen's-Arms,  St. 
Paul's  Church-yard,  a  houfe  which  at  that  time  was  much 
frequented  by  Jx>okfellers.  The  perfons  prefent  were, 

John   ' 


268  APPENDIX 

John  Gretton,  Efq.*  Mr.  Rivington,  bookfel!er,"i  n  St. 
Paul's  Church-yard;  Mr.  Longman,  bookfdler,  inPater- 
nofter-row ;  Mr.  Owen,  bookfeller,  at  Temple-bar  ;  Mr. 
Miller,  Printer  of  the.  London  Evening  Pofl;  Mr.  Wood- 
fall,  Prihter  of  the  Publick  Advert  if er,  (in  which  the  letters 
of  Junius  were  originally  publifhed)  myfelf,  and  I  think 
one  more.  After  the  bufinefs  was  over,  there  was  a  ge- 
neral converfation  concerning  newfpapers,  and  other  to- 
picks,  in  the  courfe  of  which  fomething  was  remarked, 
which  caught  Mr.  Woodfall's  attention,  for  he  immedi- 
ately faid,  that  he  had  a  letter  from  Junius  in  his  pocket, 
which  he  had  juft  received,  in  which  there  was  a  paflage, 
or  paragraph,  that  related  to  the  fubjecl  we  were  then 
talking  of,  and  he  would  read  it ;  then  taking  the  letter 
out  of  his  pocket,  he  read  the  part  he  had  fpoken  of.  The 
letter  confifted  of  three  or  four  meets  (or  more)  in  fmall 
folio,  fuch  as  we  technically  call  fool's  cap.  As  the  other 
fhcets,  which  Mr.  Woodfall  was  not  reading  from,  lay 
upon  the  table,  I  faw  them  in  common  with  the  reft  of 
the  company,  but  did  not  take  them  into  my  hands.  The 
moment  I  faw  the  hand-writing,  I  had  a  Jlrong  fufpicion 
that  it  was  Mr.  Boyd's,  whofe  hand-writing  I  knew,  having 
received  feveral  letters  from  him  concerning  books.  I  took 
no  notice  of  the  matter  at  that  time.  But  the  next  time 
that  Mr.  Boyd  called  on  me,  for  he  was  in  the  habit  of 
frequently  calling  on  me  in  Piccadilly,  I  faid  to  him,  that 
I  had  feen  a  part  of  one  of  Juniuis  letters,  in  manufcript, 
which  I  believed  was  his  hand-writing — he  changed  colour 
inftantly,  and  after  a  fhort  paufe,  faid,  "  the  ftmilitude  of 
"  hand-writing  is  not  a  conclujlve  fat?."  —  Though  thefe 
words  do  not  acknowledge  the  truth  of  the  fufpicjon,  they 

*   Now  of  Belmont-Place,  Vauxhall. 

do 


TO   THE   LIFE.  269 

do  not,  however,  pofuively  deny  it.  Thefe  were  my  firft 
grounds  of  fufpicion;  whether  juftly  or  not,  this  letter  is 
defigned  to  explain. 

About  a  month,  or  fix  weeks  afterwards,  Lord  Temple 
aiked  me,  if  I  knew  the  writer  of  the  letters  figned  Junius  ? 
I  told  his  Lordfliip  that  I  did  not,  but  that  I  had  my  fuf- 
picions.  His  Lordfhip  faid,  he  had  his  fufpicions  alfo  ; 
but  they  did  not  go  to  Mr.  Burke,  yet  he  had  no  doubt  of 
the  writer  being  an  Irimman. 

Upon  this  feemingly  indifferent  circumftance,  I  cannot 
avoid  making  two  remarks  :  one  is — that  every  reader  of 
Juniuis  letters  muft  have  obferved,  that  the  affairs  of  Ire- 
land  form  a  very  prominent  feature  in  them.  The  other 
is — that  though  all  parties  were  at  this  time  abufing  Lord 
Temple — Lord  Rockinghanv  s  friends,  becaufe  he  had  re- 
fufed  to  accept  of  the  adminiftration,  when  that'  noble 
Lord  implored  him  almoit  upon  his  knees — the  miniftry, 
becaufe  he  oppofed  their  meafures — the  court,  from  pure 
hatred,  becaufe  he  would  not  be  duped  by  Lord  Bute's 
machinations  :  and  though  thefe  parties  hated  each  other, 
yet  they  united  in  the  abufe  of  Lord  Temple.  Juntas 
joins  not  with  any  of  thefe  parties,  refpefting  Lord  Tem- 
ple. On  the  contrary,  whenever  he  {peaks  of  that  noble 
Lord,  it  is  of  his  firmnefs,  perfeverance,  patriotifm,  and 
virtue ;  and  I  can  add,  from  my  own  know  ledge,  -that; 
whenever  Mr.  Boyd  fpoke  of  Lord  Temple,  it  was  always 
in  fimilar  terms.  Junius  fays  of  himfelf,  "  to  write  tor 
"  fame,  and  to  be  unknown — to  fupport  the  intrigues  of 
'*  faftion,  and  to  be  difowned  by  every  party  in  the  king- 
"  dom,  are  contradictions  which  the  minifter  mull  recon- 
"  cile,  before  I  forfeit  my  credit  with  the  publick." 

On  the  nineteenth  of  December  1769,  was  published 
Junius's  addrefs  to  the  King,  for  which  feveral  of  the  print- 

ers 


270  APPENDIX 

ers  were  profecuted,  together  with  myfelf,  who  had  not 
concern  whatever  in  the  printing  of  it.  The  cafe  was 
fhortly  this  :  on  the  firft  day  of  January  1770,  fome  of  the 
monthly  magazines,  into  which  this  letter  of  Junius  was 
copied,  were  fold  by  my  fervants ;  for  which  act  of  felling, 
in  the  common  courfe  of  bufinefs,  the  attorney-general 
(Mr.  De  Grey,  afterwards  Lord  Walfingham)  filed  an  in- 
formation, exofficioy  againft  me,  as  a  publifher ;  although 
the  true  publifher 's  name  was  on  the  title-page  of  the  ma- 
gazine, and  I  had  no  kind  of  connexion  with  it,  immedi- 
ately or  remotely,  dire&ly  or  indireftly,  and  he  might, 
with  the  fame  juftice,  have  profecuted  all  the  bookfellers 
in  England,  for  all  of  them  fell  the  monthly  magazines. 

At  the  time  of  finking  the  fpecial  jury,  which  I  attend- 
ed, I  objected  to  thofe  gentlemen  being  on  the  jury  who 
held  places  under  the  crown.  Mr.  Burrows,  at  that  time 
mafter  of  the  crown  office,  where  the  jury  was  ftruck, 
faid  that  my  objection  was  frivolous.  I  replied,  that  this 
being  a  profecmion  in  which  the  crown  was  party,  I  could 
not  think  it  proper  that  a  fervant  of  either  party  mould  be 
on  the  jury.  He  made  no  anfwer,  but  went  on  ;  and  not- 
withitandi'ng  my  utmoft  endeavours,  I  could  not  prevent 
a  placeman  being  foreman  of  the  jury,  viz.  Mr.  Morfe  of 
the  war-office.  When  the  bufinefs  was  over,  Mr.  Nuthall's 
clerk  (Nuthall  was  folicitor  to  the  treafury)  came  up  to 
me,  and  faid,  "  We  are  certain  you  know  the  author,  we 
"  only  want  to  come  at  him ;  if  you  will  give  us  the  pro- 
"  per  information,  I  am  authorized  by  Mr.  Nuthall  to 
4t  affure  you,  that  this  profecution  (hall  not  go  on."  My 
anfwer  was,  that  I  did  not  know  the  author.  The  profecu- 
tion was  made  as  expenfive  as  poilible.  The  information 
was  extended  to  one  hundred  and  thirty-feven  fheets.  My 
own  attorney's  bill  exceeded  one  hundred  and  forty-nine 

pounds. 


TO  THE   LIFE.  2J 1 

pounds.  This  was  diftincl:  from  the  other  heavy  ex- 
pences.  The  late  Sir  Herbert  Mackworth,  who  was  one 
of  the  jury,  made  a  ftrong  affidavit  in  my  favour,  as  did 
fome  other  gentlemen  :  but  all  was  of  no  avail.  A  tew 
weeks  afterwards,  the  trials  of  the  real  printers  and  pub- 
lifhers  came  on,  when  they  were  all  acquitted.  Several 
months  after  thefe  acquittals,  I  was  fentenced  to  pay  a 
fine,  and  put  under  an  interdiction,  or  fecurity  for  good 
behaviour,  in  the  fum  of  eight  hundred  pounds.  The 
hardfhip  of  this  is,  that  nobody  can  afcertain  what  is  the 
precife  meaning  of  this  expreffion,  "  tor  good  behaviour" 
— a  breach  of  it  may  be  any  thing  the  attorney-general 
pleafes  to  call  fo.  I  can  fay  with  truth,  that  there  is  no 
man,  now  alive,  who  has  been  fo  vindictively  profecuted 
and  perfecuted,  during  a  long  feries  of  years,  as  I  have 
been,  nor  fo  unjuftly. 

During  the  whole  time  that  this  profecution  was  going 
on,  Mr.  Boyd  never  once  called  upon  me ;  which  I  could 
not  help  obferving,  becaufe  betore  this  time,  he  commonly 
called  twice  or  thrice  a  week ;  and  I  thought  it  not  lefs 
remarkable,  that  after  the  profecution  was  totally  at  an 
end,  he  refumed  his  former  cuftom. 

In  the  month  of  January  1772,  the  laft  letter  figne'd 
Junius  was  publimed.  A  fhort  time  after,  Mr.  Boyd  left 
London  ;  I  cannot  fay  the  exaft  date,  nor  to  what  place 
he  went.  But,  in  your  Preface  to  the  Indian  Obferuer,  in 
the  laft  paragraph  but  one,  'you  fay,  that  the  Freeholder, 
known  to  be  written  by  Mr.  Boyd,  was  publimed  in  Ire- 
land, (at  Belfaft)  in  1772  *.  I  have  already  obferved, 
that  the  affairs  of  Ireland  make  a  prominent  feature  in 
Juniuis  letters.  If  the  date,  therefore,  of  the  laft  of  Jun'.its 

*  This  was  a  miftake.     Mr.  Boyd  went  to' Ireland  in  1772,  but 
did  not  publifh  the  Freeholder  till  1776".     Ed. 


272  APPENDIX 

in  England,  and  the  date  of  the  firjl  paper  of  the  Free- 
holder in  Ireland,  do  not  fhew  a  ftrong  improbability  of 
their  coming  from  the  fame  inkftand,  there  will  not  feem 
any  violent  impropriety  in  conne6ling  them ;  as  coming 
from  the  fame  writer.  The  eulogium  on  Junius  in  the  Free- 
holder, may  be  judicious — to  give  immediate  currency  to 
his  new  paper.  Some  modeit  people  may  perhaps  imagine, 
that  a  capital  writer  would  not  praife  himfelf.  Junius 
was  not  fo  delicate :  witnefs  the  letters  figned  Pbilo-Junius, 
avowedly  written  by  himfelf;  what  are  they  but  eulogi- 
ums  on  Junius?  and  under  his  own  fignature,  did  he  not 
once  fay,  that  the  BIBLE  and  Junius  would  be  read,  when 
the  Jefuits  were  forgotten  ?  Junius  knew  the  utility  of  a 
feafonable  eulogium,  as  well  as  any  man.  All  men  are  not 
alike  in  apprehenfion  and'difcernment;  it  is  often  necef- 
fary  that  fome  things  fhould  be  pointed  out ;  what  is  la- 
tent, or  not  prominent,  fhould  be  made  obvious  ;  and  this 
is  bell  done  by  collateral  afiiftance.  Periodical  writers 
have  been  allowed  the  ufe  of  this  kind  of  fupplementary 
aid,  to  fupport  their  credit  with  the  publick.  Lord  Chef- 
terfield  praftifed  it,  when  he  wrote  in  the  paper  called 
Common  Senfe:  and  Mr.  Wilkes  pra&ifed  it,  when  he  wrote 
North  Briton. 

1  know  there  are  fome  perfons,  who  are  not  difpofed  to 
give  credit  to  the  account  of  Mr.  Boyd  being  the  author 
of  the  letters  figned  Junius;  and  they  found  their  doubts 
upon  their  own  opinion  of  his  talents,  which  they  fay  were 
not  equal  to  the  abilities  difplayed  .in  thofe  letters.  Every 
candid  perfon  will  obferve,  that  this  objection  refts  upon 
opinion  only  ;  and  it  may  further  be  obferved,  that  men, 
and  fometimes  great  men,  differ  widely  in  their  opinions 
upon  the  talents  of  writers.  Far  be  it  from  me  to  offer  an 
opinion  upon  the  fubjecl ;  but  I  hope  I  may,  without  in- 
curring 


TO  THE   LIFE.  273 

(furring  the  guilt  of  prefumption,  be  allowed  to  recommend 
A  comparifon  between  the  letters  of  Junius  and  the  papers 
avowedly  written  by  Mr.  Boyd.  Whoever  will  be  at  the 
trouble  of  reading  the  Introduction  to  two  Speeches  of 
Lord  Chatham,  written  and  taken  by  Mr.  Boyd,  will  pro- 
bably fay,  that  there  is  not '  any  part  of  Junius's  letters, 
which  excels  the  language  of  that  introduction,  in  beauty 
and  fublimity.  Of  the  Whig,  alfo  written  by  Mr.  Boyd,  I 
have  heard  very  good  judges  fay,  that  there  are  paffages  in 
thofe  papers,  equal  in  force  and  elegance  to  any  thing  in 
the  writings  of  Junius. 

Another  objection  has  been  made  to  the  fuppofition  of 
Mr.  Boyd  being  the  author  of  Juniuis  letters.  It  is  of  a 
kind  lefs  rude  than  the  former,  but  more  frivolous.  The 
former  was  to  his  talents,  this  was  to  his  fituation.  Thofe 
who  urged  the  objection,  faid — That  the  letters  of  Junius 
mufl  have  been  written  by  a  perfon  of  profound  erudition, 
of  high  political  connexions,  and  in  habits  of  familiarity 
amongft  the  higheft  ranks  of  fociety. 

To  Mr.  Boyd's  claflical  education,  no  man  who  knew 
him,  will  hefitate  to  give  the  fulled  credit  to  the  great 
extent  of  it.  The  reft  of  the  objection,  if  tranflated  into 
plain  Englifh,  is  no  more  than  this ;  that  the  writer  ofjunt- 
us's  letters  muft  have  been  agentleman,  ornobleman  of  high 
birth  and  fafhion.  This  is  fo  childifli,  that  one  need  only 
be  acquainted  with  the  manners  of  the  prefent  day,  to  pro- 
nounce  it  filly  in  the  extreme.  Do  gentlemen,  or  noble- 
men, in  thefe  times,  fit  down  to  the  laborious  exercife  of 
writing  a  long  feries  of  political  letters  for  the  news- 
papers ?  The  letters  of  Junius  continued  three  years, 
viz.  from  January  21,  1769,  to  January  21,  1772.  Mr. 
Wilkes  found  it  a  heavy  talk  to  produce  only  forty-five 
numbers  of  the  North  Briton;  and  every  one  who  knew 

VOL.  I.  s  him> 


274  APPENDIX 

him,  muft  remember  how  "often  he  complained  of  the 
weight  of  it ;  though  fix  of  the  numbers  were  not  written 
by  him.  The  writer  tofjimiut'*  letters  muft,  unqueftion- 
ably,  during  the  time  of  their  publication,  have  fefided  in 
London,  in  the  vortex  of  politicks,  at  the  fountain  of  in- 
formation. This  is  an  indifputable  fa£i ;  it  is  proved  by  the 
immediate  replies  given  to  other  writers.  Befides  thefe, 
there  were,  I  may  almoft  fay,  an  infinite  number  of  other 
letters,  to  which  he  did  not  affix  the  fignature  of  Jun'nts ; 
fome  few  en  mifcellaneous  fubjecls,  but  they  were  chiefly 
political,  and  in  fupport  of  Junius ;  together  with  many 
paragraphs,  feveral  of  them  particularly  temporary.  How 
I  know  the  fa&  is  not  material.  Mr.  Woodfall  will  not, 
upon  his  honour,  contradi£  me.  All  that  I  mean  to  in- 
fer from  it,  is,  that  during  the  publication  of  Junius's  let- 
ters, the  writer  muft  have  refided  on  the  fpot ;  and  that 
no  gentleman  of  rank  and  famion,  would  live  three  fuc- 
ceflive  complete  years  in  London,  for  the  fake  of  writing 
'political  letters,  and  anfwering  anonymous  antagonifts. 

As  to  the  other  part  of  the  cbje6Hon,  that  Junius  muft 
be  a  nobleman,  or  perfon  of  high  confideration,  it  is  an- 
fwered  by  the  next  queftion,  Can  no  man  write  like  a  gen- 
tleman, unlefs  he  is  of  high  birth,  or  great  fortune? 

But  there  is  another  objection  of  more  confequence 
than  any  of  the  foregoing.  It  confifts,  it  it  true,  of  only 
a  fingle  aflertion,  but  this  affertion  is  made  by  Mr.  Wood- 
fall  himfelf ;  and  that  gives  it  weight  and  importance  in- 
this  invert igation.  He  fays,  "  that  the  letters-  figned  ^K- 
"  B/HJ  were  not  written  by  Mr.  Boyd." 

A  few  weeks  after  the  Biographical,  Literary,  and  Politi- 
cal Anecdotes  were  published,  Mr.  Woodfall  and  I  met,  by 
accident.  He  immediately  complimented  me  on  the  pub«- 
li cation;*  faid,  "  it  was  a  very  entertaining  work,  he  had 

"  read 


tO  THE   LIFE.  275 

**  read  it  with  great  pleafure,  &c.  but  there  was  one  thing 
*'  in  which  I  was  miftaken,  and  that  was,  in  fuppofing 
"  Mr.  Boyd  to  have  been  the  author  of  Junius's  letters  ;" 
and  then  he  added,  with  an  emphafis,  "  that  Mr.  Boyd 
"•was  not  the  author  of  them."  Thefe  I  think  were  his 
words*  My  reply  was,  I  think  in  thefe  words,  (C  That  I 
"  had  no  doubt  of  Mr.  Boyd  being  the  author  of  thofe 
"  letters ;  that  he  (Mr.  Woodf'all)  never  knew  the  au- 
"  thor ;  and  that  as  he  never  knew  who  was,  he  could 
"  not  undertake  to  aflert  who  was  nof — the  author." 

I  fhall  make  no  comment  on  this  little  colloquy.  I 
have  put  Mr.  Woodfall's  words  in  the  full  extent  of  their 
meaning,  and  my  own  I  have  put  in  the  oppofite  fcale. 

I  refpeft  Mr.  Woodfall's  character  as  much  as  any  man 
can ;  at  the  fame  time  I  cannot  depart  from  a  confidera- 
tion  of  my  own.  I  am  not  co'nfcious,  that  throughout 
the  three  volumes  of  the  Biographical,  Literary,  and  Politi- 
cal Anecdotes,  there  is  one  untruth.  To  the  beft  of  my 
knowledge  and  belief,  every  expreffion  and  affertion,  in 
that  work,  are  founded  in  the  drifted  veracity.  My  only 
motive  in  writing  thefe  volumes  was,  that  as  moft  of  the 
fadts  they  contain,  though  very  generally  known  at  the 
time  they  happened,  had  not,  to  my  knowledge,  been  by 
any  perfon  committed  to  paper,  they  would  probably  pe- 
rim  with  the  few  now  alive,  who  are  acquainted  with 
them  ;  and  I  hope  that  the  tafk  I  thus  impofed  on  myfelf, 
will  not  be  deemed  frivolous  or  invidious.  There  are 
many  matters  left  untold,  which  do  not  relate  fo  nearly  to 
the  biography,  as  to  the  hiftory  of  our  times.  They  will 
form  a  work  of  more  conliderable  extent.  1  have  devoted 
my  leifure  to  it  for  feme  years  paft  ;  and  it  has  been,  an4 
fliali  be,  my  moft  anxious  defire  and  care,  that  no  falfe- 
hood  iliall  appear  in  it. 

j  2  There 


276          .  APPENDIX 

There  is  one  more  circumftance,  concerning  Jun'mfs 
letters,  that  is  proper  to  mention.  It  is  of  equal  import- 
ance with  any  one  that  has  been  already  adduced.  It  is 
this.  On  the  fifteenth  day  of  April  1786,  there  appeared 
the  following  paragraph  in  the  General  Advertifer. 

"  When  Lord  Macartney  went  to  Madras,  it  is  well 
"  known  that  Junius  went  with  his  Lord(hip.  He  made 
"  himfelf  ufeful  to  his  Lordfhip,  by  taking  fome  fpeeches 
"  at  the  India-IIoufe.  -No  man  ever  had  a  better  merno- 
*'  ry,  or  a  better  knack  at  taking  fpeeches  than  Junhts- 
"  He  was  happy  in,  an  accurate  retention  of  all  ftrong  ex- 
"  preiTions.  He  went  to.  India,  becaufe  his  circumftances 
"  were  very  circumfcribed.  Being  a  Whig  in  principle, 
"  it  was  no*  probable  that  he  would  differ  with  General 
"  Dalling,  who  was  bred  under  the  old  Duke  of  Cumber- 
*'{  land  :  but  it  is  very  probable  that  he  will  not  agree  with 
11  Sir  A.  Campbell.  He  is  a  native  of  Ireland,  and  re- 
"  ceived  his  education  in  the  college  of  Dublin." 

Who  can  infer  from  this  paragraph  that  Mr.  Boyd  was 
the  author  ofjunius's  letters  ?  None  but  thofe  who  knew 
the  fa 8.  Mr.  Boyd  was  not  the  only  gentleman  who  went 
with  Lord  Macartney  to  India;  feveral  other  gentlemen 
went  with  his  Lordfhip,  whofe  circumftances,  perhaps, 
might  not  materially  differ,  and  who  might  have  attended 
the  debates  at  the  India-Houfe,  as  well  as  Mr.  Boyd. 
The  paragraph  is  not  conclufive  upon  Mr.  Boyd  ;  and 
none  but  a  perfou,  who  knew  the  connexion  between 
Juniui  and  Mr.  Boyd,  would  perceive  theallufion.  If  Mr. 
Boyd  depofited  the  fecret  with  any  body,  who  was  the  moft 
'probable? — undoubtedly  Mrs.  Boyd*. 

*  It  has  been  already  ftated,  that  Mrs.  Boyd  was  not  intrufted 
with  the  fecret;  but  her  anxiety  on  this'occaiion  arole  fiom  a  belief 
that  Mr. Boyd  was  JUNIUS .  Ed. 

At 


TO  TJIE    LIFE.  277 

At  the  time  that  this  paragraph  was  publimed,  Mrs. 
Boyd  refided  at  Hampflead.  The  moment  (he  faw  the 
paragraph,  which  was  the  morning  of  publication,  (he  im- 
mediately fent  a  gentleman  to  the  printer,  to  requeft  that 
no  more  paragraphs,  alluding  to  Mr.  Boyd,  might  appear 
in  the  paper ;  becaufe  (he  feared,  that  fuch  information 
might  eflentially  injure  Mr.  Boyd's  intereft  in  India.  Her 
requeft  was  obeyed.  Nothing  more  on  the  fubjed  was 
publifhed.  A  common  obfcrver,  would  read  the  para- 
graph with  indifference ;  and  many  of  thofe  who  knew 
Mr.  Boyd,  would  fcarcely  find  their  attention  attached  by 
it.  But  Mrs.  Boyd  is  alive  to  the  allufion  the  moment  (he 
fees  it.  She  underftands  it  in  all  its  force,  and  inftantly 
wifties  to  deprecate  its  effeft.  Had  the  allufion  been  to- 
tally falfe,  perhaps  Mrs.  Boyd  might  not  have  been  Co 
quickly  alarmed.  Jum'us's  letters  had  often  been  afcribed 
to  many  perfons,  without  any  of  them  feeling  hurt  by  the 
report — becaufe  it  was  falfe.  Mr.  Boyd  was  not  at  that 
time  fufpecled,  I  believe,  by  any  body,  except  mylelf. 

I  have  now  vindicated,  I  hope  fufficiently,  the  account 
given  in  the  Biographical,  Literary,  and  Political  Anecdotes, 
of  the  writer  of  Juniuss  letters. 

My  fincere  opinion  is,  that  thofe  letters  were  written  by 
the  late  Mr.  Hugh  Boyd  ;  and  I  fhall  continue  to  be  of 
that  opinion,  until  I  am  undeceived  by  fome  better  autho- 
rity than  any  I  have  yet  feen. 

I  am,  Sir, 

Your  obedient  fervant, 

J.  ALMON. 


A  CONCISE 


278  APPENDIX. 

A  CONCISE  ACCOUNT  of  a  Jhort  CONTROVERSY,  which 
was  carrlcdon  through  the  Medium  of  the  MORNING  CHRO- 
NICLE, in  the  Month  ofAuguJii'jgg,  relative  te  tie  ®>uejlion, 
— #$/$*rMr.  HUGH  BOYD  %vas  in  Reality  the  AUTHOR 
OF  JUNIUS  ? 

JL  HIS  CONTROVERSY  having  attracted  the  notice  of  the 
pubKck,  I  think  it  no  lefs  due  to  thofe  concerned  in  it, 
than  to  the  memory  of  Mr.  Boyd,  to  explain  the  caufe  from 
which  it  arofe,  as  well  as  the  motive  which  induced  me  to 
engage  in  it,  and  likewife  to  give  an  impartial  ftatement  of 
the  leading  points  on  both  fides  of  the  queftion. 

In  the  beginning  of  July  1799,  Mr.  George  Chalmers 
publjfhed  a  book,  entitled,  A  Supplemental  Apology  for  the 
Believers  in  the  Shakefpeare  MSS.  together  with  a  Po/ifcripf, 
addreffed  to  Mr.  T.  J.  Mathias.  In  this  Pojlfcript  he 
takes  occafion  to  give  fome  account  of  Mr.  Boyd,  to  .de- 
clare it  to  be  his  firm  belief,  that  Mr.  Boyd  was  the  author 
of  Junius,  and  to  aflert,  that  "  he  was  an  United  Irijhman, 
"  by  birth,  by  habit*  and  by  pra&ice."  The  laft  part  of  this 
fiatement  of  Mr.  Chalmers,  namely,  that  Mr.  Boyd  was 
an  United  Iri/hman,  being  totally  void  of  all  foundation  in 
truth,  and  being  a  filly,  but  malicious  attempt  todefame  his 
character,  I  felt  myfelf  called  upon  to  expofe  the  fallacy 
of  the  afiertion,  and  to  fhield  the  memory  of  my  friend 
from  the  poifoned  arrows  of  his  (lander.  I  therefore  ad- 
dreffed a  letter  to  the  Editor  of  the  'Morning  Chronicle,  to 
that  effect  ;  and  at  the  fame  time  dated  a  few  leading  facls 
in  proof  of  Mr.  Boyd  having  written  the  letters  of  Junius, 
in  order  to  prevent  the  publick  from  being  milled  on  that 
point,  by  fome  plaufible,  but  erroneous  circumftances  re- 
fpetling  it,  which  had  appeared  in  the  True  Briton. 

*>-  The 


TO   THE   LIFE.  279 

The  following  is  the  fubftance  of  the  principal  fa&s 
which  I  flated  in  that  letter,  with  regard  to  Mr.  Boyd 
having  written  the  letters  of  Junius,  viz. 

"  That  Mr.  Boyd,  from  his  abilities  and  political  con- 
nexions, was  fully  qualified  for  the  tafk  of  writing  fuch 
letters." 

4  That  previous  to  the  appearance  of  Jumuis  letters, 
Mr.  Boyd  had  accuftomed  himfelf  to  write  in  a  difguifed 
hand." 

"That  during  the  whole  of  the  three  fucceflive  years  that 
Juntus  wr  ic  i  i  the  Pubtick  Adverttfer,  Mr.  Boyd  conftant- 
ly  fent  leuc  s  to  that  paper,  which  he  wrote  with  themoft 
impenetrable  fecrecy,  which  he  fuperfcribed  in 'his  feigned 
hand- writing,  and  which  he  chiefly  employed  Mrs.  Boyd  to 
carry  to  Mr.  H.  S.  Woodfall's  letter-box,  with  the  moft 
fcrupulous  caution." 

"That  there  was  POSITIVE  EVIDENCE,  in  contradiction 
to  what  was  ftated  in  the  TrueBriton  *,  that  Mr.  H .  S. Wood- 
fall  never  knew  that  Mr.  Boyd  had  written  for  the  Publick 
Advertifer,  before  the  year  1777,  until  he  was  requeued  by 
Mr.  Boyd's  friends  to  point  out  fhofe  letters,  which  they 
knew  Mr.  Boyd  had  written  for  that  paper,  in  the  years 
1769,  1770,  1771,  and  part  of  1772." 

"  And  laftly,  that  the  writer  in  the  TrueBrlton,  when  he 
faid,  "  That  Mr.  Boyd's  contributions  to  the  Pubiick  Ad- 
"  verfifer,  in  the  time  oljunius,  are  not  to  be  held  in  com- 
"  parifon  with  the  productions  of  that  admirable  writer," 
cenfured  writings  which  he  had  never  read,  and  which  I 
defied  him  or  any  other  man  to  produce.  I  gave  this  defi- 
ance with  a  confidence  founded  on  the  FACT,  that  no  let- 

*  It  was  ftated  in  the  True  Briton,  "  That  Mr.  Boyd  was  known 
"  to  have  written  for  the  fublick  AdvertiftrduTing  the  time  ofjunius." 

ter« 


APPENDIX 

ters  of  Mr.  Boyd's  were  publifhed  in  the  PublickAdvertifer, 
during  the  three  years  above  mentioned,  except  thofe  which 
are  fo  well  known  under  the  fignatures  of  Junius  and  Phils- 
Junius,  thofe  that  appeared  under  the  fignatures  of  Lucius 
and  Brutus,  and  thofe  that  he  fent  to  Mr.  H.  S.  Woodfall 
in  Mrs.  Boyd's  hand-writing. 

Thefe  facts  had  no  fooner  been  publifhed,  than  Mr. 
William  Woodfall  Hepped  forward  to  deny  their  validity, 
and  to  juftify  the  affertion  above  quoted  of  the  writer  in 
the  True  Briton.  In  his  letter,  which  appeared  in  the 
Morning  Chronicle  of  the  I2th  of  Auguft  1799,  which  pro- 
feffes  to  be  an  anfwer  to  my  faffs,  he  aflferts, — "  That  no 
"  man  living  knows  more  of  the  conduit  ot  Junius,  in  the 
*'  management  of  his  correfpondence  in  all  its  relations, 
*'  than  he  does,  his  brother  alone  excepted." 

*'  That  be  knows  the  whole  of  the  affertion,  that  Mr.  Boyd 
*'  was  the  author  of  the  letters  figncdjunius,  to  be  founded  in 
*'  mifapprehenfion." 

"  That  Mr.  Boyd  was  not  capable  of  compofing  fuch 
"  letters  ;  becaufe  his  Effays,  in  the  Indian  Obferver,  are 
"  greatly  inferior  to  them  in  point  oi  ftyle  and  fenti- 
"  ment." 

"  That  he  (Mr.  William  Woodfall)  can  fafely  affert, 
"  that  his  brother  Mr.  H.  S.  Woodfall,  fliewed  him  every 
"  one  of  Junius's  letters  in  manufcript,  previous  to  publi- 
"  cation,  and  that  not  one  of  them  bore  the  appearance  of 
"  having  been  written  in  a  difguifed  hand  *." 

•'That 

*  What  Mr.  W.  Woodfall  obferves  here,  is  perfe£lly  true.  The 
MSS.  of  Junius  did  not  bear -the  appearance  of  a  difguifed  hand- 
writing, to  perfons  like  Mr.  W.  Woodfall,  who  had  not  feen  Mr. 
Boyd's  common  hand-writing.  But  I  have  already  proved,  that 
thcfe  who  were  well  acquainted  with  the  one,  would  upon  an  in- 

fpe&ion 


TO   THE   LIFE,  28l 

«c  That  Mr.  Eoyd  might  poffibly  have  difguifed  his  hand- 
*'  writing,  fufficiently  to  efcape  the  detection  of  common 
"  obfervers,  but  that  he  could  not  eafily  deceive  the  acute 
"  difcernment  of  anewfpaper  printer's  eye." 

*'  That  even  fuppofing  Mr.  Boyd  could  difgu'tfe  his  hand- 
"  writing,  it  muft  be  admitted  on  all  hands,  he  could  not  dif- 
"  guife  his  ftyle,  and  haft  of  all  in  that  moft  extraordinary 
"  way  of  writing  above  his  own  reach  of  literary  talent." 

"  That  the  writer  in  the  True  Briton  was,  therefore, 
"  amply  juftified  in  faying,  that  Mr.  Boyd' s  contributions  to 
"  the  Publick  Advertifer,  in  the  time  of  Juntas,  were  not  to  be 
"  held  in  comparifon  with  the  productions  of  that  admirable 
f<  writer." 

"  That  his  brother,  Mr.  H.  S.  Woodfall— never  njked 
"for  any  indemnity  for  publijhing  the  letters  ofjunius,  nor  was 
tl  any  offered  Jjim." 

"  And  that  tor  all  thefe  reafons,  I  had  committed  a  grofs 
*'  error  in  lending  a  willing  ear  to  Mr.  Almon's  affertion, 
"  that  Mr.  Boyd  was  the  author  ofjunius;  an  aflertion  which 
"  he  (Mr.  William  Woodfall)  for  all  thefe  reafons,  declares 
"  to  be  founded  in  ignorance,  and  broached  in  prefumption" 

Such  is  Mr.  W.  Woodfall's  anfwer  to  my  faffs  refpefl:- 
Jng  Mr.  Boyd,  the  different  parts  of  which,  lor  the  fake  of 
order  and  concifenefs,  I  have  been  obliged  to  tranfpofe  and 
condenfe :  but  the  author  will  find,  that  although  his  per- 

fpeftion  of  the  other,  difcover  a  ftrong  refemblance  between  them. 
And  Mr.  W.  Woodfall  muft  be  fenfible,  that  as  there  was  no  Jinking 
peculiarity  in  the  MSS.  of  Junius,  he  could  not  poffibly  know,  whe- 
ther it  was  a  feigned  hand  or  not ;  for,  in  order  to  afcertain  whether 
a  hand- writing  of  that  kind  be  difguifed,  it  is  neceflaryto  be  fami- 
liarly acquainted  with  the  fame  writer's  hand  in  his  private  letters, 
or  in  the  common  concerns  of  life. 

formancc 


282  APPENDIX 

formance  has  been  ftripped  of  its  rhetorical  flouri/hes,  it  has 
loft  nothing  either  of  its  beauty  orjtrengtb. 

To  this  letter  of  Mr.  William  Woodfall's,  I  thought  it 
peceflary  to  reply ;  becaufe  the  unqualified  affertions  re- 
fpefting  Juntas,  under  the  fignature  of  Wood/all,  if  uncon- 
tradi&ed,  might  have  carried  fome  weight  with  them,  al- 
though they  were  unfupported  by  a  finglefaff,  or  any  thing 
like  argument  or  juft  obfervation. 

I  went  over  the  fame  ground  that  I  had  taken  in  my 
iirft  letter ;  becaufe  I  only  wifhed  to  fubjlantiate  the  few 
fadts  I  had  Hated,  not  at  that  t'tme  to  prove,  that  Mr.  Boyd 
was  in  reality  the  author  of  Jurrius. 

lobferved,  "  that  as  to  Mr.  W.  Woodfall's  aflertion,  that 
*'  the  manuscript  ofjunius  did  not  appear  to  him  to  be  a  dif- 
*'  guifed  handy  \  could  only  fay,  it  was  noway  furprifing 
"  Mr.  Boyd  mould  have  eluded  the  detection  of  a  news- 
**  paper  printer's  eye,  when  even  the  perfpicaeity  and 
"  acutenefs  of  Mr.  W.  Woodfall  had  been  fo  egregioufly 
ft  deceived  by  the  hand-writing  of  Junitis.  For  that  to 
"  fay  nothing  of  the  fact  itfelf,  that  all  the  letters  fent  to 
"  the  Publick  Advert'ifer,  under  the fignatures  oijunius  and 
"  PhUo-Jwrius,  of  Lucius  and  B tutus,  were  actually  written 
*'  in  a  difguifed  hand,  it  muft  be  evident  to  every  man  of 
"  common  obfervstion,  that  Juniuf  would  have  forfeited 
*'  all  claim  to  fagacity,  and  would  infallibly  have  been  dif- 
,"  covered,  if  he  had  written  his  letters  in^his  common 
**  hand-writing." 

tl  That  with  regard  to  his  affertion,  that  Mr.  Boyd  could 
"  not  difgutfe  hisjlylf,  he  (Mr.  W.  Woodfall)  muft  be  igr 
*'  norant  indeed  of  literary  hiftory,  if  he  did  not  know  an 
'<  hundred  inftances,  of  men  of  lefs  talents  than  he  allowed 
"  to  Mr.  Boyd,  having  deceived  thepublick  by  difguifing 
*'  their  ftyle." 

^  That 


TO   THE   LIFE.  283 

"  That  his  afiertion,  that  Mr.  Boyd  was  in  the  habit  of 
ff  correfpanding  with  the  /-*:•£ )Yt  Advertifer  in  the  time  ofju- 
*'  ntus,  but  not  as  ajludionfly  concealed  writer,  was  utterly  un- 
"  founded  in  truth,  for  that  Mr.  Henry  Sampfon  Woodfall 
"  had  told  me,  in  the  preience  of  a  gentleman  whom  I  had 
'«  purpofely  brought  along  with  me  to  his  houfe,  that  he 
**  knew  not  of  any  contributions  of  Mr.  Boyd's  to  the 
"  Publick  Advertifer,  in  the  time  of  Junius;  that  he  had  no 
tf  recolleftion  whatever  of  any  letters  of  Mr.  Boyd's  at 
"  that  time.  And  I  reminded  Mr.  W.  Woodfall,  that 
"  his  brother  Mr.  H.  S.  Woodfall  had  exprefsly  told  me 
"  in  his  own  (Mr.  W.  Woodfall's)  prefence — that  he  did 
*'  not  recollect  that  Mr.  Boyd  had  ever  written  for  the  Publick 
'*  Advertifer  before  the  year  1777,  when  he  had  fent  him  fame 
**  letter 3  on  the  affairs  of  India;  and  that  although  he  could 
"  not  give  in  to  the  idea  of  his  having  written  Junius,  that  he 
tl  notwithstanding  thought  him  a  very  able  writer." 

l<  That  it  clearly  appeared,  therefore,  Mr.  H.  S.  Wood- 
"  fall  could  give  no  account  whatever  of  upwards  of  one 
*'  hundred  and  fifty  letters,  which  Mr.  Boyd  had  actually 
"  fent  to  the  Publick  Advertifer,  in  the  time  of  Junius;— 
"  and  that  as  a  man  of  his  talents,  fentjments,  and  habits, 
"  could  not  be  fuppofed  to  have  laboured  gratuitovjly  for  a 
*'  newfpaper  for  three  fuccejffive  years,  unlefs  his  writings 
"  had  received  the  continued  encouragement  and  applaufe 
"  of  the  publick,  the  fair  prefumption  was,  that  the  letters 
"  which  Mr.  Boyd  fent  to  the  Publick  Advertifer,  in  a  dif- 
"guifedhand,  and  with  fuch  fcrupulous  caution  and  fe- 
"  crecy,  are  thofe  very  letters  which  were  publjfhed  in 
"  that  paper,  under  the  fignatures  of  Junius  and  Philo- 
ft  Junius,  of  Lucius  and  Brutus." 

The  day  after  the  publication  of  my  fecond  letter,  there 
appeared  in  the  Morning  Chronicle  a  letter  from  Mr.  Almon, 

replying 


284  APPENDIX 

replying  in  ftrong,  but  moderate  and  refpe&ful  terms,  to 
Mr:  W.  Woodfall's  unprovoked  and  wholly  unfupported 
attack  on  him,  and  pafling  over  in  total  filence  the  coarfe- 
nefs  of  his  language. 

Mr.  W.  Woodfall,  however,  had  now  waxed  warm  in 
the  caufe  lie  had  efpoufed,  and  he  loft  not  a  moment  in 
replying  both  to  Mr.  Almon's  letter  and  mine.  On  the 
l6th  of  Auguft,  a  iecond  letter  from  him  appeared  in  the 
Morning  Chronicle,  in  which  he  anfwers  Mr.  Almon,  by 
fhortly  telling  him,  "  that  it  is  natural  for  the  father  of  a 
"  falfehood  to  proletl  his  offspring;  and  at  the  very  fame  time 
*'  complains  bitterly  of  abufe  and  fcurrility,  as  well  as  of  my 
"  angry  and  arrogant  letter*." 

Mr.  W.  Woodfall,  upon  finding  my  facls  were  not  to 
be  controverted,  declined  all  further  difcuffion  concerning 
them  ;  but  faid,  "  that  he  ivas  convinced  on  grounds  not  within 
"  my  reach,  that  Mr.  Boyd  was  not  the  author  of  Junius." 
Thefe  grounds,  however,  he  has  not  deemed  it  advifeable 
to  ftate  to  the  publick  ;  and  all  that  he  urges  in  his  fecond 
letter,  relative  to  the  point  at  iflue,  amounts  merely  to 
this,  "  that  Mr.  Boyd  could  not  have  written  the  letters 
"  of  Juntas,  becaufe  his  Eflays  in  the  Indian  Obferver  are 
"  inferior  to  thofe  performances,  and  becaufe  he  (Mr.  W. 
"  Woodfali)  is  of  opinion  that  the  manufcript  of  Junius 
"  was  not  a  difguifed  hand."  As  both  thefe  obje£lions 
have  been  fully  conlidered  and  refuted  in  Mr.  Boyd's  Life, 
it  is  unneceflary  to  notice  them  again  :  but  there  are  one 

*  I  know  not  that  I  was  arrogant',  I  am  fure  I  was  far  from  be- 
iug  angry.  But  Mr.  W.  Woodfall  was  probably  aware,  that  anger, 
like  wine,  frees  the  mind  from  refiraint,  and  leads  us  on  to  fpealf 
truth  boldly;  and  therefore  judged  of  theftaleofmy  mind,  from  the 
truth  of  my  obfervations. 

or 


TO   THE    LIP.E.  285 

x>r  two  more  obfervations  in  Mr.  W.  Woodfall's  letter, 
which  for  the  fake  of  impartiality  I  mail  briefly  mention. 

He  accufes  me  of  having  quoted  him  unfairly,  in  the 
following  fentence,  becaufe  I  omitted  the  words  printed 
in  Ilalicks,  viz  : — "That  it  muft  be  admitted  on  all  hands 
"  that  Mr.  Boyd  could  not  difguife  his  ityle,  andleaft  of  all 
"  in  that  moft  extraordinary  way  of  writing  above  bis  own  reach 
"  of  literary  talent,"  for,  fays  hev  the  words  in  halicks  con- 
vey the  whole  force  6/:-:e  argument!  ! — Now  I  certainly  did 
omit  thefe  words ,  not  bscaufe  J  wifhed  to  treat  him  un- 
fairly, but  becaufe  I  thought  their  abfurdity  too  obvious 
to  require  to  be  pointed  out.  Cannot  Mr.  W.  Woodfall 
perceive  that  when  he  fays,  "  Mr.  Boyd  could  not  write 
"  above  his  own  reach  of  literary  talent"  it  is  mo  ft  miferably 
begging  the  queftion ;  as  it  is  taking  for  granted  the  very 
point  in  difcuffion.  The  queftion  was,  Whether  Mr. 
Boyd's  talents  were,  or  were  not  equal  to  the  tafk  of  wri- 
ting the  letters  of  Junius  ?  And  it  was  therefore  neceffary  to 
have  refolved  that  queftion  in  the  cieareft  and  mod  fatis- 
faftory  manner,  before  he  called  on  all  bands  to  admit  that  Mr. 
Boyd,  by  having  Written  the  letters  of  jFunius,  would  have 
gone  beyond  his  rrwn  reach  of  literary  talent.  Mr.  W.  Wood- 
fall  might  have  called  on  thofe,  who  had  previoufly  agreed 
with  him  to  allow  this  ;  but  to  commence  an  argument 
with  declaring  that  all t  Jides  mv ft  admit,  as  a  matter  beyond 
difpute,  the  very  point  which  that  fame  argument  is  in- 
tended toleltablim,  is  furely  the  very  acme  of  abfurdity. 

Mr.  William  Woodfall  next  obfervcs,  "  That  the 
**  writer  of  Junius  fent  feveral  private  letters  to  his  bro- 
"  ther,  fome  of  them  containing  letters  to  individuals  of 
"  diftinguifhed  character,  which  he  requefied'liis  brother 
"  to  convey."  And  he  then  calls  upon  me  to  point  out  the 
perfons  to  whom  thefe  letters  were  adcfrefled.  Now  I 

candidly 


286  APPENDIX 

candidly  confefs  I  do  not  exactly  know  either  the  addrefs 
or  the  purport  of  aft  thofe  letters  ;  nor  is  fuch  a  piece  of 
knowledge  necefTarily  connected  with  this  queftion,  which 
is  not  to  difcover  to  whom  Junius  addrefled  private  letters? 
but  who  wrote  the  letters  figned  Junius,  But,  if  Mr. 
Woodfall  choofes  to  point  out  to  whom  they  were  written, 
I  am  fully  perfuaded  they  will  have  a  tendency  dill  far- 
ther to  confirm  the  pofitive  faft  that  MR.  BOYD  WAS  Ju- 

NIUS.       ',  . 

The  laft  letter  which  appeared  in  the  Morning  Chronicle 
immediately  relating  to  this  controverfy  was  one  from 
Mr.  Almon,  wherein  he  juftly  obferves,  "  that  Mr.  W. 
"  Woodfall  has  left  the  'difpute  about  the  perfon  of  Juni- 
"  us  precifely  where  he  began  it;  and  has  been  compelled 
"  to  acknowledge  that  neither  he,  nor  his  brother  ev&r 
*'  knew  any  thing  about  the  real  author  of  Junius. — And 
"*  that  when  one  obferves  Mr.  W.  Woodfall's  boafting  of 
'*  his  brother  having  fhewn  him  every  letter  of  Junius  in 
'*'  the  manufcript,  previous  to  publication,  one  cannot  help 
"  faying>  that  Junius  was  perfectly  right  in  keeping  them 
*'  both  in  a  ftate  of  total  ignorance  of  him." 

"  Of  two  interefting  fafts  concerning  Junius,  neither  of 
"  the  Woodfalls  had  ever  the  leaft  information,  and  I  fay 
««  it  with  confidence,  notwithftanding  Mr.  Woodfall's  un- 
*'  founded  afTumption:  one  is  the  reafon,  or  caufe  of  Ju- 
*'  nius  attacking  the  Duke  of  Grafton  in  a  manner  fo 
«*  pointedly  and  bitterly.  It  muft  have  arifen  in  fome 
*'  provocation  real  or  imaginary.  The  other  is,  Junius 
<f  never  attacking  the  Grenvilles." 

Such  are  all  the  material  points*  of  this  controverfy, 

*  There  are  one  or  two  circuniftances  mentioned  in  Mr.  Wta,, 
Woodfall's  letters  which  having  had  occafion  to  quote  in  the  Life 
of  Mr.  Boyd,  I  have  not  thought  it  neceffary  to  repeat  here. 

which 


TO   THE   LIFE.  287 

which  it  will  be  found  I  have  ftated  with  ftrift  impar- 
tiality, and  from  which  I  (hall  leave  the  reader  to  draw 
his  own  conclufion. 

I  beg  leave  to  clofe  this  account  with  the  following  let- 
ter from  Mr.  Almon,  which  I  received'a  few  weeks  after 
the  controverfy  had  ceafed,  and  which  will  be  found  to 
throw  additional  light  on  the  general  queftion. 


Box-Moor,  near  Hempftead,  Herts, 

Sept.  2d,  1799, 
Dear  Sir, 

Y  OUR  having  poftponed  the  publication  of  Mr.  Boyd's 
Life  to  another  feafon,  affords  me  an  opportunity  to  add  a 
few  oblervations  to  thofe  contained  in  my  letter  of  laft 
year. 

The  principal  objection  made  to  Mr.  Boyd's  being  the 
writer  of  the  letters  figned  Junius,  is,  that  his  talents 
were  inferior  to  the  compofition  of  thofe  papers.  This  i* 
putting  the  whole  objcilion  into  as  few  words  as  poflible. 
There  are  two  things  necefiary  to  fupport  this  objection; 
one  is,  that  the  perfon  who  makes  it  mould  be  well  ac- 
quainted with  Mr.  Boyd's  talents ;  and  the  other  is,  that 
he  mould  be  a  ^W^'w^  of  literary  compofition. 

Of  Mr.  Boyd's  literary  talents  I  have  already  fpoken  irt 
my  letter  above  mentioned ;  and  therefore  I  mall  only 
add,  that  Mr.  W.  Woodfall,  who  has  brought  this  ob- 
jection forward  into  the  public  prints,  knew  very  little  of 
Mr.  Boyd,  confequently  he  does  not  poflefs  the  firft  qua- 
lification neceflary  to  fupport  his  objection. 

'3  In 


288  APPENDIX. 

In  a  letter,  which  he  has  publifhed  in  one  of  the  pub- 
lic prints,  dated  on  the  2ift  of  laft  month,  he  fays,  "  With 
**  regard  to  what  Mr.  Almon  fays  of  the  poffible  envy  I 
*'  might  entertain  of  Mr.  Boyd's  fuperior  capacity  as  a 
"  parliamentary  debate  reporter,  I  will  fairly  tell  him, 
"  that  I  do  not  believe^tbat  Mr.  Boyd  pofleJJ'ed  any  fuck  talent" 

Every  one  of  Mr.  Boyd's  friends  know  very  well,  that 
he  pofleffed  this  talent  in  a  more  eminent  degree  than  ahy 
other  perfon,  hitherto  heard  of.  It  was  no  fecret ;  he 
never  concealed  it.  In  his  ordinary  converfation,  he 
would  frequently  repeat,  with  aftonifhing  accuracy,  whole 
paffages  from  fpeeches  he  had  heard  yi  both  houfes  of 
parliament.  It  was  impoflTible  to  know  Mr.  Boyd,  and 
not  to  know  the  wonderful  powers  of  his  memory. — This 
is  the  ftrongeft  proof  Mr.  Woodfall  could  give,  that  he 
knew  nothing  of  Mr.  Boyd's  talents. 

As  to  Mr.  Wood  Fall's  judgment  on  literary  competition, 
I  (hall  not  difturb  it :  but  I  believe  that  thofe  who  know 
him  beft,  will  be  inclined  to  doubt  it  moft.  His  pre- 
tended knowledge  of  Junius ;  or  who  was  not  Junius, 
amounts  to  nothing.  He  never  knew  who  was  Junius.  I 
faid  it  before,  and  I  repeat  it  now. 

My  reafons  for  believing  the  letters  of  Junius  to  have 
been  written  by  Mr.  Boyd,  you  have  in  my  former  letter. 
But  fince  fending  you  that  letter,  further  reafons  have  oc- 
curred to  me;  Which  I  (hall  now  fubmjt  to  you. 

During  the  time  of  the  original  publication  of  Julius's 
letters,  it  was  common  amongft  perfons'of  diftinftion,  to 
afk  each  other,  what  could  be  the  caufe  of  the  writer's  fo 
particularly  attacking  the  Duke  of  Grafton  ? — At  this  time 
Mr.  Boyd  refided  in  London,  and  lived  on  the  moft  friendly 
terms  of  intimacy,  and  even  confidence,  with  Mr.  Harry 
Macleane,  the  younger  brother  of  Mr.  Lauchlin  Macleane, 

who 


TO   THE   LIFE.  2»9 

who  was  fecretary  to  Lord  Shelburne,  when  that  noble 
Lord  was  fecretary  of  ftate.  About  three  months  before 
the  publication  of  thefe  letters  commenced,  Lord  Shel- 
burne was  removed  from  his  office  of  fecretary  of  ftate, 
and  confequently  Mr.  Macleane  loft  his  place.  This  was 
a  great  difappointment  to  Mr.  Macleane,  who  had  fair 
profpefts.  The  removal  of  Lord  Shelburne,  was  the  aft 
of  the  Duke  of  Grafton ;  or  rather  (in  our  confteutional 
language)  it  was  done  by  the  advice  of  the  Duke  of  Graf- 
ton,  who  was  then  firft  lord  of  the  treafury.  I  fear  this 
will  be  thought  a  prefumptuous  aflertion  ;  but  when  a 
man  puts  his  name  to  a  writing,  he  mould  be  pretty  cer- 
tain, that  what  he  fays  is  true.  Whoever  has  accefs  to  the 
India  Papers,  will  find,  in  the  Minutes  of  Confultation  on 
the  twenty-fecond  day  of  January  1776,  *  A  fhort  Memo- 
'  rial  of  Services  rendered  to  the  Nabob  of  Arcot,  by 

•  John  Macpherfon,   Efq.  whom  he    (the  Nabob)     fent 

*  upon  a  fecret  '"commiflion  to  his   Majefty's  firft  mini- 
'  fter  of  ftate  in   1767.'    The  Memorial   fets/out   with 
faying,     "Upon  my  arrival  at  the  court   of  Britain  to- 
"  wards  the  latter  end  of  the  year  1768,  I  found  two  im- 
"  portant  changes  had  happened  in  adminiftrafion  ;  the 
«'  Earl  of  Chatham  had  re'ired  in  fuch  a  manner  from 
"  power,  as  convinced  the  moft  intelligent  upon  thefe  fub* 
"  jecls,  that  there  was  but  little  profpeft  of  his  ever  again 
"  poffefling  a  lead  in  ad  mini  ft  ration ;  the  Earl  of  Shel- 
"  burne  had  been  difmifled,  at  the  Infit gallon  of  the  Duke 

"  of  Grafton.  from  the  office  of  fecretary  of  ftate*." 

The 

*  This  memorial  contains  fsveral  curious  fa&sj  and  amongft 
others,  the  following:  • 

«  I  obtained  from  my  friend  the  Earl  of  Warwick,  a  letter  of  in- 
troduction to  his  Grace  [the  Duke  of  Grafton].  1  waited  upon 
his  Grace,  and  prefented  him  with  a  general  ilate  of  India,  and  a  plan 
by  which  the  concerns  of  that  country  nii^ht  be  turned  to  the  pub- 
VOL.  I.  /  lick 


APPENDIX 

The  difmijjlon  of  Lord  Shelburne  fas  it  is  called  in  the 
Memorial)  took  place  in  the  month  of  Oftober  1768,  and 
the  firft  letter  of  Junius  was  published  in  the  month  of 
January  1769.  At  this  time  fcarcely  a  day  paffed,  that 
Mr.  Harry  Macleane  did  not  call  upon  Mr.  Boyd,  to  de- 
tail the  news  and  politicks,  communicated  to  him  by  his 
brother,  with  whom  Mr.  Boyd  often  dined.  At  this  time 
Mr.  Grattan  was  alfo  in  London,  and  they  aflbciated  to- 
gether in  the  years  1768,  1769,  1770,  and  1771;  particu- 
larly Mr.  Grattan  and  Mr.  Boyd,  who  were  always  on 
terms  of  the  ciofeft  friendfhip. 

Mr.  Lauehlin  Macleane  was  patronized  by  Lord  Shel- 
burne, Mr.  Grattan  by  Lord  Charlemont,  who  brought 
him  into  the  Irifh  parliament;  but  Mr.  Boyd  had  no  pa- 
tron ;  he  was  felicitous  of  the  friendfhip  of  Lord  Temple, 
and  he  would  have  obtained  it,  if  that  noble  Lord  had 
lived  a  little  longer. 

lick  advantage. The  letter  [from  the  Nabob]  and  credential 

prefents  were  then  prefented  :    the  anfwer  of  the  Duke  of  Grafton, 
did  honour  to  the  beft  of  kings,  and  the  firft  of  nations.' 

"  Si  R, 

4t  It  is  my  fincere  difpofition,  that  the  Nabob  fhould  have  every 
fupport  that, is  confident  with  the  power  and  interefts  of  the 
crown  to  give.  I  will  gladly  receive  from  you  every  propofal  upon 
that  fubjedt,  and  warmly  reprefent  them  to  my  Sovereign  ;  and  I 
defire  you  to  believe,  that  the  Nabob's  intereftruns  no  rifk  from  my 
want  of  cautio'n  j  if  you  write  to  him,  inform  him  of  my  wiflies  for 
his  profperity,  and  explain  to  him,  that  I  will  not  accept  his  pre- 
fents, however  great  any  refpect  for  him  is  j  I  will  have  no  return 
for  the  juft  regard  I  owe  him  as  a  man,  but  my  own  fenfibility.  It 
is  from  my  fidelity  to  my.mafter,  and  duty  to  my  country,  that  I 
will  only  ferve  him  as  minifter. " 

*  Overwhelmed  with  the  noblenefs  of  this  anfwer,  I  took  up  the 
prefents,  and  offered  them  in  the  name  of  the  Nabob  to  his  Grace's 
fecretttry,  Mr.  Brad/haw,  who  alfo  refufed  them.' 

Previous 


TO   THE   LIFE.  29! 

Previous  to  the  publication  of  Junius's  letters,  the 
Grenvilles  were  all  reconciled  to  each  other,  and  to  Lord 
Chatham.  It  was  at  this  time  the  general  opinion  of  all 
ranks,  that  thefe  perfons  muft  fucceed  to  the  higheft  de- 
partments of  the  ftate,  whenever  a  change  of  minifters 
took  place.  , 

In  this  fiiort  narrative,  it  may  be  prefumed,  that  two 
points  are  explained,  which  have  often  excited  furprife  ;' 
one  is,  the  apparent,  or  probable  caufe  of  attacking  the 
Duke  of  Grafton;  the  other  is,  the  apparent,  or  probable 
motive  for  fparing  the  Grenvilles. 

Whether  Meflrs.  Macleane  and  Mr.  Grattan  contribu- 
ted to  the  compofition  of  thefe  letters,  is  a  matter  only 
known  to  themfelves.  Perhaps  they  did  not,  otherwife 
than  by  conversation.  Perhaps  Mr.  Boyd  did  not  choofe 
to  trufl  them  with  his  fecret,  and  therefore  he  might  truly 
fay,  "That  he  was  the  SOLE  depofitory  of  his  own  fecret, 
"  and  it  fhould  perifh  with  him."  If  we  admit  this 
declaration  to  be  true,  and  hitherto  there  has  been  no  rea- 
fon  to  doubt  it,  ciraunftancet  are  the  only  proofs  which  can 
be  offered  :  zndfuch  circumjlances  as  have  fallen  within  my 
knowledge,  I  have  produced.  They  are  fufficient  to  con- 
vince me.  If  any  perfon  has  better  proofs,  that  fome  other 
gentleman  was  the  author  of  thofe  letters,  let  him  produce 
them  ;  but  until  they  are  produced,  I  (hall  continue  in  my 
prefent  opinion. 

I  am, 

SIR, 

Your  moil  obedient  fervant, 

J.    ALMON. 


POLITICAL 

ESSAYS. 


VOL.   I. 


THE  FREEHOLDER. 

A  SERIES  OF  LETTERS, 

ADDRESSED  TO 

The  ELECTORS   of  the   COUNTY  of  ANTRIM, 
(In  IRELAND,) 

PUBLISHED    AT    BELFAST, 

Previous  to  the  General  EleQion  in  the  Year  1776. 
Concordid  res  parvce  crefcunt* 


B  2 


T    '> 


. 

' 


' 


ADVERTISEMENT 

To  the  firft  Edition  publifhed  by  the  Author 
in  1776. 


-I  H  E  flattering  partiality  with  which  the 
following  LETTERS  have  been  received  by 
the  Publick,  even  in  their  detached  ftate, 
it  is  hoped  will  juftify  the  Author  in  this 
collective  publication.  He  is  confcious  that 
they  are  not  fufiiciently  prepared  to  encoun- 
ter the  feverity  of  criticifm.  But  they  are 
intended  to  gain  the  concurrence  of- Patriots, 
not  the  approbation  of  Criticks ;  and  though 
their  competition  mould  not  be  correct,  he 
is  perfuaded  their  principles  \arejuft. 

The  urgency  of  the  occafion  prefles  for 
their  publication,  without  time  for  correc- 
tion, or  even  revifal.  He  thinks  it  neceffary 

however 


ADVERTISEMENT. 

however  to  advert,  in  a  Preface,  to  a  few 
points,  either  omitted  in  the  Letters,  or  not 
fufficiently  explained.  The  Series  then  fol- 
lows, as  they  at  firft  appeared  in  the  publick 
Paper.  The  indulgence  with  which  they 
were  read,  he  trufts,  will  continue  to  attend 
them ;  and  is  not  without  hopes  that  their 
efficacy  may  be  now  increafed. 


PREFACE. 


PREFACE. 


JL  H  E  writer,  whofe  unfortunate  neceflity 
it  is  to  inculcate  felf-evident  truths,  has  a 
delicate,  and  often  a  thanklefs  office. — For 
it  implies  an  extraordinary  fufpicion  either 
of  the  dulnefs  of  his  readers  which  cannot 
underftand,  or  their  obftinacy  that  will  not 
confefs.  They,  however,  will  probably  have 
room  to  retort ;  and  to  complain  that  he, 
who  perfifls  in  prefiing  obvious  propofi- 
tions,  grows  either  dull  or  didaclick.  The 
man,  for  inftance,  who  goes  about  to  de- 
monftrate  that  two  and  two  make  four,  muft 
have  a  very  contemptuous  opinion  of  the 
talents  of  his  friends,  or  a  very  high  one  of 
his  own,  if  he  ex  peel:  to  render  the  fubjeft 
agreeable.  Equally  felf-evident  are  the  pro- 
pofitions,  that  duty  to  our  country  is  the 

higheft 


8  PREFACE   TO 

higheft  under  heaven,  that  independence  is 
more  honourable  than  flavery,  and  liberty 
a  happier  flate  than  bondage ;  with  many 
others  which  the  following  Letters  urge  and 
repeat :  the  neceffity  of  this  repetition  may 
be  worth  inquiring  into.  It  is  fomewhat 
curious  as  well  as  ufcful  to  examine  why 
doftrines  indubitably  true,  are  fo  doubtfully 
received,  and  require  to  be  fo  particularly 
preffed. 

Cuftom  has  been  called  the  tyrant  of 
fools.  But  it  is  more.  It  is  too  often  the 
fanftion  of  bad,  and  the  deceiver  of  good 
men.  A  natural  refpeft,  an  obedient  fort 
of  veneration  is  paid  to  the  habits,  the  dif- 
pofitions,  and  even  to  the  errors,  which 
have  long  prevailed.  Every  thing  done 
appears  to  be  right;  whatever  has  been 
fuffered  is  thought  to  be  neceflary.  If,  for 
a  moment,  a  few  finer  fpirils  attempt  to  ftem 
the  torrent,  their  effort  is  overwhelmed  in 
the  multitude  of  contempt  and  ridicule  with 
which  the  willing  fufferers  affecl  to  treat  it. 
Ignoble  precedent  prevails  ;  and  we  fit  down 
the  contented  heirs  of  fervile  calamity  and 
paflive  obedience. 

Thus 


THE   FREEHOLDER.  9 

Thus  thought  and  thus  fuffered  the  fpirit- 
lefs    race   of   Cappadocia ;    whofe  blotted 
name  for  ever  ftains  the  page  of  hiftory. 
She  blufhed  while  fhe  records  their  depravity 
in  rejecting  the  glorious  boon  of  liberty, 
offered  to  them  by  their  too  generous  con- 
querors.    They  preferred  their  ufual  fervi- 
tude,  and  hugged  their  accuftomed  chains. 
Warned  by  this  infamous  example,  let  na- 
tions guard  againit  precedents  of  flavery. 
Human  nature  is  every  where  the  fame ; 
and  is  always  fubjecl  to  degeneracy :   and 
the  fame  difgraceful  caufes  neceffarily  pro- 
duce the  fame  ruin.     Acquiefcence  to  op- 
preflion  is  an  admiffion  of  its  right;    and 
this  admhTion  daily  enfeebles  the  opprefled, 
whilft  it  more  than  in  the  fame  proportion 
ftrengthens  the  oppreffor ;  for  it  adds  opinion 
to  his  caufe.      Ufurpation   fwells   and  tri- 
umphs in  its  eafy  conqueft,  till  at  length  the 
little  remains  of  fpirit  in  the  people  are  an- 
nihilated.   They  at  firft  neglecled,  next  they 
are  unable,    and  at' lad  they  (ink  into  an 
unwillingnefs  to  claim  their  rights.     Their 
(lavery  is  decreed  :  and  the  tyrants  are  qui- 
eted in  poffeflion  of  their  power. 

3  In 


IO  PREFACE    TO 

In  thefe  countries,  where  liberty  was  the 
peculiar  boaft,  and,  as  fome  of  our  old  writ- 
ers emphatically  exprefs  it,  congenial  to  the 
very  foil, — the  proper  element  of  the  free 
inhabitants, — it  is  equally  to  be  wondered  at 
and  lamented  that  any  caufe  fhould  avail  to 
its  decay ;  but  particularly  that  the  fervile 
prefcription  of  cuftom  fhould  be  fet  up 
againft  it.  But  in  truth  it  is  unfairly  plead- 
ed. For  it  is  not  the  genuine  ancient  cuftom 
of  the  country.  This  fervile  fubjeQion  to 
fuperiours,  as  they  are  called,  but  who  are 
really  fuperiour  in  nothing  but  the  accidents 
of  rank  and  title,  is  the  fpurious  and  cor- 
rupted ufage  of  modern  times ;  and  as  dif- 
ferent in  nature  as  in  authority  from  the 
exemplary  practice  of  former  ages.  The 
learned  and  virtuous  Selden  well  explained 
this  fubjecl  to  the  firft  James.  The  arbi- 
trary Pedant  afked  that  eminent  lawyer, 
what  law  there  was  to  juftify  the  right 
.which  the  people  claimed  to  refift  his 
power?  "  It  is  not  authorized  in  the 
books,"  faid  Selden.  «  I  thought  fo," 
cried  James,  in  triumph.  "  But  pleafe 
your  majefty,"  returned  Selden,  "  there  is 
2  a  law 


THE  FREEHOLDER.  11 

a  law   fuperiour  to   the  books  ;    it  is  the 
cujlom  of  England'' 

This  country  furely  will  not  relinquifti 
her  fitter-claim  to  rights  To  refpe6tably  juf- 
tified.  Rival  of  the  liberties  and  the  glories 
of  her  fifter-kingdom,  (he  will  feel  and  (he 
will  exert  her  duty  to  refift  the  violations  of 
her  conftitution,  whether  attempted  by  mo- 
narchy on  the  throne,  or  ariftocracy  around 
it.  Confcious  of  the  national  importance 
of  the  prefent  crifis,  (he  will  not  pervert 
nor  neglect  it.  Neither  the  tamenefs  of 
modern  cuftom,  nor  the  ariftocratick  influ- 
ence of  titled  ufurpers,  (hall  lull  nor  intimi- 
date her  into  a  defertion  of  her  rights ; 
particularly  her  primary  fundamental  right 
of  free  election.  Nor  will  her  fpirit  fuffer 
her  to  adopt  the  defpondency  of  fome  of 
her  degenerate  fons. 

For  befides  the  difgraceful  plea  of  cuf- 
tomary  fervitude,  there  are  certain  whining 
reafoners  who  affect  to  defpair  of  the  con- 
ftitution. To  what  purpofe,  they  afk,  are 
individual  exertions  of  patriotifm?  Majo- 
rities in  parliament,  they  complain,  are  cer- 
tain ;  government  invincible ;  penfions  and 

places 


12  PREFACE   TO 

places  numerous  and  decifive;  and  rotten 
boroughs  an  incurable  evil.  Thence  they 
infer  that  it  matters  not  whether  it  be  well 
or  ill  reprefented  ;  that  all  is  vanity  and 
vexation  of  fpirit ;  and  that  no  advantage 
can  be  derived  from  any  candidate  whatever. 
But  this  is  wifer  or  jufter  in  political,  than  it 
would  be  in  moral  reafoning,  if  the  rich  man 
were  to  fay  to  the  wretch  who  folicited 
alms,  "  My  good  friend,  thou  art  miferably 
poor ;  therefore  I  will  give  thee  nothing : 
I  fee  you  have  been  ftripped,  robbed,  and 
abufed,  and  ftand  in  the  extremeft  need  of 
my  affiftance ;  and  for  that  reafon,  thou 
malt  have  none  from  me?"  For,  in  the 
prefent  inftance,  the  electors  are  the  rich 
"and  powerful  men  of  the  realm.  They 
have  in  their  voices  the  real  conflitutional 
wealth  ;  which,  if  they  rightly  difpenfe  it  to 
relieve  the  necefiities  of  their  country,  will 
return  through  her  enriched  channels  with 
immeafurable  intereft  ta  themfelves.  But 
it  is  to  invert  all  principles  of  common 
fenfe  and  common  juftice,  to  argue  that  we 
ought  not  to  fupport  our  country  becaufe 
me  is  opprefled.  The  very  reafon  which 

mould 


THE   FREEHOLDER.  13 

fliould  fpur  us  on  to  the  moft  a&ive  exer- 
tions, is  impudently  manufactured  into  a 
deceitful  opiate  to  dull  and  blunt  our  fpirits. 
And  in  this  inftance  it  would  be  peculiarly 
fpiritlefs  and  abfurd  for  electors  to  defpair 
of  a  caufe,  which  is  immediately  their  own, 
and  folely  in  their  own  power. 

Surely  this  great  and  refpe6lable  County 
will  not  incur  the  reproach  of  deferting 
fuch  a  caufe,  and  facrificing  both  the  rights 
and  power  of  the  people.  Other  northern 
counties, — for  liberty,  with  her  two  fup- 
porters  induftry  and  the  proteftant  religion, 
is  a  native  of  the  north, — exhibit  a  condu6l 
more  honourable.  Derry,  Donegall,  Ar- 
magh, fland  forward  in  the  lift  of  the  af- 
fertors  of  publick  freedom.  Independence 
has  ftruck  a  deep  root  in  the  land  ;  and 
will  branch  out  and  flourifh  over  the  coun- 
try. Some  of  the  moft  confiderable  cities 
and  boroughs,  with  the  metropolis  at  their 
head,  concur  in  the  caufe.  The  electors  of 
Ireland  begin  to  feel  their  fituation,  and  to 
know  themfelves ;  that  without  whining 
their  defperate  prayers  to  Jove  or  Hercules 
for  afliftance,  they  need  only  apply  their 

own 


24  PREFACE   TO 

own  fhoulders  to  the  wheel ;  and  that  their 
own  efforts  will  certainly  avail,  to  extricate 
the  political  machine  from  the  bogs  and 
filth  which  have  hitherto  clogged  its  opera- 
tions. 

But  facl,  as  well  as  argument,  is  againft 
this  unmanly  defpair.  The  defeat  of  the 
mortgage-bill,  the  repeal  of  the  veftry-bill, 
and  other  fignal  fucceffes  in  parliament,  are 
memorable  proofs  of  the  advantages  to  be 
derived  to  the  country  from  conftitutional 
reprefentatives.  Thefe  eminent  fervices 
plead  unanfwerably  in  favour  of  the  at- 
chievers  of  them  ;  and  inculcate,  beyond 
contradiction,  as  well  to  our  intereft  as  our 
gratitude,  the  neceflity  of  electing  the  fame 
victorious  patriots  to  oppofe  with  equal 
fuccefs  the  revival  of  thofe  dangerous  de- 
figns,  and  the  innovation  of  other  mifchiefs 
which  impend.  For,  let  this  country  be 
timely  warned.  'The  fpirit  of  defpotifm  is 
gone  forth.  Oppreffion  her  object,  devaf- 
tation  her  means,  famine,  fword,  and  fire 
her  inflruments,  even  now  (he  ravages  the 
new  world.  If  Heaven,  for  ultimate  pur- 
pofes  beyond  human  reach,  permit  fuccefs 

to 


THE   FREEHOLDER.  15 

to  the  oppreflbr ;  and  if  that  mighty  con- 
tinent mud  fink  to  flavery,  can  this  little 
ifland  hope  for  a  happier  doom  ;  unlefs  fhe 
call  forth  all  her  virtue,  and  exert  all  her 
fpirit,  to  deferve  and  to  obtain  it  ?  Flufhed 
with  the  falfe  glories  of  her  unnatural  con- 
queft,  will  the  power  of  England  fpare  her 
paflive  fitter-kingdom,  when  fhe  has  crufhed 
the  active  and  juft  exertions  of  her  fons  ? 
This  unhappy  country  will  then  feel,  and 
will  lament  too  late,  the  mifchiefs  of  her 
voluntary  folly,  in  abetting  the  tyranny  of 
the  parent-ftate  over  her  dependencies.  For, 
what  better  name  than  tyranny  can  be  given 
to  a  fyftem  of  arbitrary  exaction,  fupported 
by  the  fword  ? — What  other  principles  can 
actuate  our  rulers  to  the  profecution  of  fuch 
a  war  ?  What  is  its  object  ?  Not  taxation. 
That  the  miniflers  have  publickly  difclaimed 
in  parliament:  and  General  Burgoyne  in 
his  letter  to  Lee  exprefsly  abandons  it. 
"  If,"  fays  he,  "relief  from  the  uncom- 
mercial taxes,  (tea,  &c.)  be  the  object  of 
the  quarrel,  the  war  is  at  an  end."  Why 
then  was  not  that  relief  afforded  them,  in 
order  to  end  the  war  ?  Becaufe  the  minifters 

pretended 


l6  PREFACE   TO 

pretended  it  would  not  have  fatisfied  Ame- 
rica. "  She  aims  at  independence,  and 
total  difconnexion  from  Great-Britain  !" 
The  minifters  fay  fo ;  perhaps  they  think 
fo.  But  (hall  the  random  or  malicious 
gueffes  of  ignorant  men,  for  fuch  they  have 
been  proved,  be  admitted  as  conclufive  evi- 
dence againft  the  peace  and  happinefs  of  the 
empire.  Certainly  not :  even  if  no  anfwer 
were  given  to  them.  For  to  accufe,  is  not 
to  condemn  ;  and  adminiftration  are  not  yet 
participant  of  the  infallibility  of  their  new 
ally  at  Rome ;  fo  as-  to  command  implicit 
aflent  to  their  affertions,  becaufe  they  are 
theirs.  But  America  can  give  up  this  ad- 
vantage of  throwing  the  proof  on  her  accu- 
fers ;  aud  can  difprove  this  only  charge 
againft  her,  even  to  demonftration.  There 
are  but  three  ways  to  difcover  the  intentions 
of  men ;  viz.  their  declarations,  their  aftions, 
and  their  intereft.  When  thefe  concur,  my 
pofition  is,  that  they  prove  the  intention. 
I  aflert  then,  and  it  is  plain  matter  of  faft, 
that  they  do  concur  to  (hew  the  earneft  in- 
tention of  America  to  continue  her  accuf- 
torried  dependence  on  the  mother-country. 

Their 


THE   FREE  HOLDER.  17 

Their  declarations  to  that  effeft  have  been 
uniform,  folemn,  and  full.  In  all  the  votes, 
refolutions,  petitions,  publications  of  the 
Congrefs,  that  obedient  idea  of  naval  and 
commercial  dependence  is  anxioufl.y  main- 
tained. That  admirable  a(fembly,  which  in 
wifdom,  virtue,  and  fortitude,  truly  repre- 
fents  its  condiments,  deprecates  only  the 
monftrous  and  mad  proceeding,  which 
would  add  to  the  monopoly  of  their  trade 
and  manufacture  an  arbitrary  taxation  of 
their  internal  property.  And  it  is  particu- 
larly obfervable,  that  they  only  complain 
of  the  arbitrary  practice  of  univerfal  taxa- 
tion ;  and  not  of  the  general  principle.  For 
in  all  their  applications,  either  to  King  or 
Parliament,  they  never  require  the  repeal 
of  the  declaratory  aft,  which  eflablifhes  that 
principle  :  but  it  intends  it  however,  as  all- 
principles  ought  to  be  intended,  to  be  acled 
upon  with  equity  and  moderation. — The 
fupreme  power  and  right  of  Great-Britain 
is  there  declared  "  in  all  cafes  whatfoever." 
And  it  may  be  admitted  to  exift  in  all  cafes, 
either  external  or  internal.  But  the  decla- 
ratory a6l  does  not,  cannot  fay,  that  it 
VOL.  i.  c.  equally 


l8  PREFACE    TO 

equally  exifts  at  all  times,  and  for  all  pur- 
pofes ;  to  be  exercifed  arbitrarily  either  to 
glut  corruption,  to  indulge  caprice,  or  to 
fatiate  revenge.  There  may  be  a  right ; 
but  it  may  lofe  its  nature,  and  become  the 
mod  odious  wrong,  by  unjuft  exertions. 
The  King,  for  inftance,  may  have  a  right 
to  prefs  his  fubjefts,  or  a  particular  defcrip- 
tion  of  them,  into  the  fea-fervice.  And  the 
moil  conflitutional  lawyers  decide  fo.  But 
even  the  mod  hardened  lawyer  would  blufh 
to  affert,  and  the  tameft  flave  would  rife  to 
refill,  a  perpetual,  unneeeflary,  and  oppref- 
live  abufe  of  it.— But,  to  return.  We  have 
feen  the  declarations  of  America  conflantly 
in  proof  of  their  dutiful  dependent  inten- 
tions. Let  us  try  them  by  the  next  crite- 
rion, their  attions. 

The  fair  point  of  view  to  judge  thefe  in, 
is  a  fituation  fimilar  to  the  prefent ;  or,  at 
leaft,  to  what  was  lately  the  fituation  of 
both  countries  ;  when  I  maintain  the  in- 
nocence of  America  as  to  independent 
views  :  which  if  (he  now  entertains,  we  can 
only  blame  our  own  infatuation  that  has 
compelled  her.  The  point  of  view  I  wifli 

to 


THE   FREEHOLDER.  19 

to  take  is  the  (late  of  America,  previous  to 
the  repeal  of  the  {tamp-aft.  She  was  then, 
according  to  the  language  of  parliamentary 
journals,  "  in  outrageous  rebellion."  To 
reftore  the  happinefs  and  connexion  of  both 
countries,  a  repeal  of  that  act  was  propofed. 
Then,  as  now,  it  was  objected  to  by  the 
falfe  dignity  of  fome,  and  the  mort-fighted 
prudence  of  others.  It  was  then,  as  now, 
urged,  "  We  mufl  not  give  up  the  rights  of 
the  mother-country  : — America  will  take 
advantage  of  our  conceflions,  and  will  pro- 
ceed to  difpute  our  commercial  authority, 
and  to  throw  off  her  dependence."  'Juftice, 
however,  and  good  policy,  prevailed  againft 
thefe  injurious  prejudices ;  and.  the  flamp- 
a£l  was  repealed.  The  actions  of  America 
then  evinced  the  fincerity  of  her  dutiful  dif- 
pofitions :  for  (he  fell  back  to  her  obedient 
and  fubordinate  ftation  with  an  alacrity 
which  extorted  acknowledgment  and  praife 
even  from  her  enemies ;  and  the  only  ad- 
vantage flie  made  of  our  wife  conceffion, 
was  to  co-operate  in  refloring  the  harmony 
and  happinefs  of  the  empire.  It  was  re- 
ftored ;  and  would  have  been  eftablifhed, 
c  2  but 


2O  PREFACE   TO 

but  for  our  fatal  relapfe  into  the  former 
folly.  About  two  years  afterwards,  the  at- 
tempt at  internal  taxation  was  revived ;  and 
what  was  perhaps  flill  more  vexatious,  was 
continued,  at  a  memorable  period  which 
foon  followed, — though  Lord  Hilfborough 
had,  in  the  name  of  all  the  minifters,  ex- 
prefsly  difclaimed  it,  in  his  publick  letter  to 
the  Colonies.  The  violence  and  folly  which 
have  ever  fmce  difgraced  our  councils  and 
our  arms,  are  not  to  my  prefent  purpofe  ; 
which  is  only  to  prove  the  peaceful  and 
obedient  difpafition  of  America ;  from 
which  (he  was  driven  by  the  revival  of  our 
oppreffions,  Thefe  are  unanfwerable  facls ; 
which  however  are  either  unknown,  or  rnif- 
underftood,  by  thofe  who  decide  rather  by 
opinion  than  argument ;  and  who  judge 
more  by  their  own  paflions,  than  the  actions 
of  thofe  whom  they  condemn. 

As  to  the  inter  eft  of  America,  little  need 
be  faid  to  prove  how  much  her  ftrength, 
her  wealth,  her  fecurity,  and  happinefs,  de- 
pend on  Great-Britain.  It  is  undeniable  in 
argument  that  infinite  advantages  muft  be 
derived  to  Colonies  from  the  protection  of 


THE   FREEHOLDER.  21 

a  powerful  Mother-country,  while  (he  dif- 
penfes  to  them  a  participation  of  her  laws 
and  her  freedom,  as  far  as  the  nature  of 
Colonies  can  admit,  and  is  content  with  their 
honourable  dependence  on  her,  without 
ftraining  it  to  total  flavery.  The  happy  ex- 
perience of  ages  confirms  this  theory.  Our 
Colonies  grew  and  flourimed  under  our  wing. 
Their  commerce  expanded  under  our  regu- 
lations ;  their  wealth  encreafed  by  our  per- 
million.  Their  manners  took  a  polim  from 
our  example ;  and  the  affection  of  the  fuperi- 
our  ftate  indulged  to  them  the  means  of  ele- 
gant felicity.  They  knew  the  happinefs,  the 
itrength  of  their  fituation ;  and  they  anx- 
ioufly  wifh  its  return.  They  deprecate  the 
idea  of  difconnexion  from  Great-Britain,  or 
independence,  as  it  is  called,  as  a  fevere 
calamity  ;  to  be  exceeded  by  none  but  fla- 
very. The  alternative  to  them  is  terrible : 
and  nothing  can  drive  them  to  adopt  the 
former  part  of  it,  but  our  perfifting  to  prefs 
the  latter.  So  think,  and  fo  have  argued, 
their  bed  and  wifeft  writers.  The  famous 
author  of  the  Farmer's  Letters  has  amply 
explained  the  inttrejl  of  America  to  require 

a  depen- 


22  PREFACE    TO 

a  dependence  on  Great-Britain.  The  ftill 
more  famous  Dr.  Franklin,  whofe  name 
mall  for  ever  rank,  not  only  with  the  wifefl 
politicians  of  his  time,  but  with  the  moft 
'eminent  philofophers  of  any  age  or  coun- 
try, has  thoroughly  proved  the  mifchiefs  in 
which  this  dreaded  independence  muft  in- 
volve America.  In  his  very  able  argument,, 
publifhed  in  fupport  of  Lord  Bath's  pamph- 
let above  thirty  years  ago,  the  fubjecl;  is 
fully  difcuffed.  The  claming  interefts  of 
twelve  or  fourteen  rival  Powers,  different  in 
religion,  government,  manners, — refembling 
only  in  an  hoftile  jealoufy  each  of  the  other, 
are  mod  formidably  dated  by  him.  And 
it  is  certain  that  fuch  a  ftrife  of  elements 
muft  produce  almoft  an  incurable  chaos  of 
confufion.  No  fuperintending  power  to 
prefide,  and  to  pacify  ; — no  omnipotence 
of  legiflation  to  quell  the  turbulent  fcene, 
and  bid  order  rife;  the  univerfal  tumult  muft 
continue :  and  a  fortuitous  concourfe  in  the 
political  creation  of  the  new  world  would 
be  as  defperate,  as  it  is  incredible  in  the 
natural  account  of  the  old  one. — Againft 
this  pofition.  no  argument  can  be  drawn 
2  from 


THE    FREEHOLDER.  23 

from  the  prefent  union  of  the  Colonies.  It 
is  a  fudden,  fingular,  miraculous  event. 
Quod  divum  promittere  nemo  auderet.—T\\e 
minifters  pronounced  it  impoffible.  We 
had  their  awful  and  frequent  afTurances  that 
it  could  not  happen;  or  if  it  happened,  that 
it  could  not  laft.  And  I  will  admit  to  them 
that  every  appearance  was  probable  that  it 
could  not :  except,  perhaps,  the  aflertion 
of  the  miniftry.  That  being  agaihft  its  pof- 
iibility,  induced  many,  who  bed  knew  the 
wifdom  and  truth  of  the  Cabinet,  certainly 
to  expert  it. — But  it  mud  be  remembered 
that  this  extraordinary  flate  of  things  has 
been  produced,  and  is  protracled,  by  caufes 
equally  extraordinary.  The  unheard-of 
opprefiions  attempted  by  one  country  have 
called  into  aftion  and  into  union,  an  un- 
heard-of fpirit  in  the  other  ;— a  fpirit,  com- 
pounded of  liberty,  virtue,  and  valour,  fup- 
porting  an  union  unrivalled  in  the  annals  of 
mankind.  And  while  the  attempted  op- 
preflion  lads,  the  fpirit  will  fpread  and  ac- 
cumulate, and  the  union  ftrengthen.  Till, 
when  at  laft  the  feeblenefs  of  defpotifm  (hall 
fail,  and  the  vis  con/tit  expert  mole  mat  fud, 

this 


24         •  PREFACE    TO 

this  'extraordinary  fabrick  of  united  intents 
{hall  alfd  diffolve.  When  the  cement  which 
held  them  together  is  withdrawn,  they  natu- 
rally fink  and  feparate.  It  was  the  common 
enemy  that  made  common  caufe  ,  among 
them.  With  that  powerful  motive,  the  effecl 
would  alfo  ceafe :  for  their  interefts  would 
ceafe  to  be  common  ;  or,  at  leaft  to  appear 
fo.  And  they  muft  foon  realize  one  of 
the  dreams  of  the  Prieft  of  Gloucefler,  by 
falling  into  confufion  and  ruin :  but  nothing 
under  omnipotence  could  realize  his  vifions 
of  profperity  to  thefe  countries ;  or  reftore 
the  ftrength  of  the  difmembered  empire. 

If  therefore  the  declarations,  the  actions, 
and  the  intereft  of  men,  be  the  means  of 
collecting  their  intentions, — and  I  know  no 
other  ; — and  if  thefe  methods  concur  to 
vindicate  America  from  aiming  at  indepen- 
dence, as  I  maintain  they  do ;  me  ftands 
acquitted  from  the  charge :  and  this  mini- 
fterial  affertion,  avowedly  the  only  bafis  of 
the  war,  has  no  foundation  in  fa 6r..  My 
inference  is,  that  the  avowal  of  the  miniftry 
is  a  pretence  to  cover  the  blacked  defigns. 
For  defigns  cannot  be  fair,  that  are  carried 

on 


THE   FREEHOLDER.  25 

on  through  deception,  and  enforced  by  vio- 
lence. Taxation  is  not  the  object  of  the 
war.  The  miniflers  difclaim  it.  To  check 
the  independent  views  of  America,  was  not 
the  motive  ;  for  no  fuch  views  were  enter- 
tained, and  therefore  no  fuch  motive  could 
exift.  But  liberty  exifted,  flourHhed,  in 
that  great  continent ;  and  that  is  a  crime  of 
the  deepeft  dye  in  the  ethicks  of  modern 
polity.  Certainly  and  confidently  fo ;  for 
our  miniflers  have  the  merit  of  uniformity 
in  oppreftion.  They  have  a  fyflem  to  fup- 
port;  and  they  muft  reduce  to  it  the  irre- 
gular wanderings  of  fpirit,  or  of  virtue.  It 
is  not  at  all  wonderful  that  fuch  a  fyftem 
mould  exift.  It  has,  in  different  propor- 
tions, exifted  often  in  thefe  countries  ;  and 
conftantly  in  others.  But  it  is  rather  ex- 
traordinary that  it  mould  ever  find  fup- 
porters  fufficiently  hardened  to  avow  and 
to  glory  iu  it : — that  even  Mr.  Rigby  fhould 
not  blufh  to  maintain  the  neceffity  of  ty- 
ranny. "  We  muft  crufh  America,"  fays 
this  humane  and  modeft  gentleman.  "  We 
muft  not  propofe,  nor  accept  any  terms  of 
accommodation ;  we  muft  enforce  from 

them 


26  PREFACE   TO 

them  a  total,  unconditional,  abfolute  fubjec* 
tion."  To  this  doctrine,  and  thefe  meafures, 
let  Ireland  ferioufly  attend :  for,  through 
the  amiable  medium  of  this  gentleman's  ten- 
dernefs,  the  argument  and  the  danger  come 
home  to  us.  It  is  his  favourite  theme,  and 
no  doubt  would  be  his  fpeedy  practice,  and 
that  of  his  powerful  connexion,  as  part  of 
the  fyftem  they  purfue,  to  rule  Ireland  with 
the  fame  rod  of  iron  with  which  they  fcourge, 
or  attempt  to  fcourge,  America.  And  why 
(hould  they  not?  It  is  their  fyftem.  They 
claim  a  right  to  crujh  us :  and  we  feem  to  ad- 
mit their  claim.  Precifely  the  fame  principle 
of  arbitrary  dominion  over  the  property  and 
liberty  of  America,  unlimited  and  uncondi- 
tional, which  fome  of  the  publick  bodies  of  this 
kingdom  have  applauded,  will  operate  again  ft 
the  liberty  and  property  of  Ireland.  And 
it  will  indubitably  be  enforced  againft  us ; 
for  our  politenefs  will  yield  a  much  richer 
and  cheaper  fpoil,  than  the  rugged  refiftance 
of  the  continent.  Then,  when  the  land-tax 
is  let  loofe  againft  us  to  devour  the  country ;  * 
— when  the  excife  rifes  like  a  peftilence  to 
grind  the  faces  and  penetrate  the  vitals  of 

the 


THE  FREEHOLDER.  2J 

the  poor ; — when  the  unfparing  hand  of 
power  wrings  from  us  the  uttermoft  far- 
thing to  purchafe  the  little  light  of  Heaven 
that  (hall  be  able  to  pierce  through  the 
clouds  of  our  miferies ; — when  the  whole 
region  of  revenue-plagues  fhall  come  upon 
us  like  an  armed  man; — (hall  we  dare  to 
complain  ? — fhall  we  prefume  to  murmur  ? 
"  No,"  we  (hall  well  be  told,  "you  have 
"  approved  our  principle,  and  encouraged 
"  our  proceedings.  If  the  principle  were 
<e  unjuft,  why  have  you  juflified  it  ?  If  the 
"  proceedings  be  violent,  why  did  you  vin- 
"  dicate  them  ?  You  have  applauded  and 
<f  fanftified  our  do&rine  and  our  meafures : 
"  and  have  offered  your  lives  and  fortunes 
"  in  their  fupport.  We  now  demand 
'*  them ;  but,  we  tell  you  for  your  com- 
"  fort,  we  mould  have  taken  them  whether 
"  you  offered  them  or  not :"  "For,  we  have 
"  a  right  to  crufh  you  into  "unconditional 
"  fubjeftion." 

I  have  been  thus  particular  in  ftating  the. 
great  American  queftion,  to  warn  my  coun- 
trymen of  the  critical  fituation  of  my  country : 
— to  roufe  them  to  a  fenfe  of  their  danger  and 

their 


28  PREFACE    TO 

their  duty ;  and  to  inculcate  a  correfpondent 
conduct  of  fpirit  and  virtue.  Their  oppor^ 
tunity,  and  their  only  opportunity,  is  at 
hand.  They  may  now  give  their  honed 
voice  in  parliament ;  and  afFeft  the  interefls 
of  their  country  there,  through  a  real  confti- 
tutional  reprefentative ;  who  dedicates  him- 
ielf  folely  to  them,  and  to  their  caufe  ;  and 
who  has  given  decifive  proofs  of  his  ability, 
as  well  as  uncorruptible  inclination,  to  ferve 
them. 

The  fignal  inftance  of  patriotifm  in  reject- 
ing the  offer  of  a  feat  in  parliament,  becaufe 
he  would  not  for  a  moment  detach  himfelf 
from  the  caufe  of  the  people,  is  adverted  to 
in  the  following  Letters.,  The  equally  noble 
and  difmterefted  refignation  of  his  military 
emoluments,  deferve  equal  praife,  gratitude, 
and  fupport,  from  his  aflbciates  in  the  caufe  of 
liberty  ;  and  extorts 'reluftant  applaufe  even 
from  the  adverfary.  To.  all  the  world  he 
proves  the  generofity  of  his  principle,  which 
difdained  the  wages  that  might  inflitute  a 
claim  upon  him  for  a  fervice,  which  he 
thought  a  fervice  of  oppreffion.  To  the 
judicious  and  the  juft,  who  knew  it  to  be  fo, 

he 


THE   FREEHOLDER.  29 

he  evinces  the  wifdom,  as  well  as  the  difm- 
tereftednefs,  of  his  patriotifm.  Thefe  are 
folid  and  fubftantial  demonftrations  of  fin- 
cerity.  Appearances  may  feem  to  flatter ; 
probabilities  may  tend  to  perfuade ;  but 
fafts  convince.  Sacrifices,  of  this  ferious 
import,  are  not  made  for  nothing.  They 
argue  a  decided  and  confirmed  opinion  ;  and 
eftablifh  a  certainty  of  its  orthodox  conti- 
nuance. Except  indeed  with  thofe  political 
fceptics,  who  doubt  the  poffibility  of  pub- 
lick  virtue.  This  libel  on  mankind  was 
firft  publifhed  by  Sir  Robert  Walpole.  And 
it  came  properly  from  him.  It  cannot  be 
wondered  that  corruption  and  vice  fhould 
vilify  virtuev  Or  it  may  be  admitted  that 
they  mean  not  to  calumniate,  but  really 
miftake  the  point :  as  the  drunken  wretch, 
looking  with  diflorted  opticks  through  the 
medium  of  his  own  fituation,  imagines  every 
other  perfon  in  the  fame  (late  of  intoxica- 
tion with  himfelf.  The  malice  or  the  blind- 
nefs  of  fuch  men  knows  no  bounds  ;  nor  dif- 
tinguifhes  any  character.  Even  the  facred 
manes  of  John  Hampden,  are  violated  by 

the 


gO  PREFACE,    ETC. 

the  injurious  infmuations  of  the  Scotch  hif- 
torian. 

To  fuch  aflaflins  of  character,  let  us  leave 
the  ungenerous  calumny.  Capable  of  con- 
ceiving, becaufe  confcious  in  our  own  breafts 
of  its  exiflence,  let  us  approve  ourfelves  anx- 
ious to  reward  difmterefted  publick  virtue. 
Let  us  coolly  and  unbiafledly  compare  the 
perfonal  merits  and  the  conftitutional  claims 
of  our  candidates ;  and  let  us  effectually 
fuppprt  the  man,  who  mall  be  found  to 
have  an  undifputable  preference. 


THE 


THE 

FREEHOLDER. 


LETTER  I. 

They  are  the  Truftees,  not  the  Owners*  of  the  EJiate. 
I'he  Fce-fimple  is  in  Us.  JUNIUS. 

A  HE  great  writer  whofe  words  I  have 
placed  at  the  head  of  my  paper,  is  juftly 
acknowledged  to  excel,  in  fplendour  of 
imagery,  and  in  flrength  of  diclion.  But 
his  excellence  extends  to  points  ftill  more 
important.  No  writer  has  inveftigated  with 
fuch  fagacity,  nor  with  fuch  clearnefs  point- 
ed out,  the  true  nature  of  our  admirable 
conftitution.  The  wifdom  and  learning  of 
Locke  had  afcertained  fome  great  funda- 
mental maxims,  which  conftituted,  or  at  leaft 
contributed  to  form,  the  bafis  of  our  liberties. 

But 


£2  THE   FREEHOLDER. 

But  it  remained  for  the  fucceeding  addrefs 
and  eloquence  of  Junius  to  encounter  and 
to  fubdue,  at  leaft  in  the  fields  of  argu- 
ment, the  more  refined  corruptions  of  later 
times. 

The  gradual  decay  of  the  democratical 
part  of  our  conflitution,  gives  more  ferious 
alarm  to  every  man,  who  knows  how  to 
value  the  legal  freedom,  of  regulating  his 
actions  by  his  own  reafon;  and  of  dijpofmg  his 
property  according  to  his  own  will,  for  his 
own,  and  his  country's  advantage.  Thefe 
fignal,  and  godlike,  privileges  have  hitherto 
blefled  thefe  happy  kingdoms.  To  fecure, 
to  perpetuate  the  bleffing,  is  the  duty  of 
every  man  in  them.  It  is  peculiarly  ours, 

my  countrymen  and  fellow-freeholders. 

It  is  indifpenfibly  ours :  for,  "  the  fee-fimple 
is  in  us." 

Permit  therefore  one  ofyourfelvts,  thus  to 
fulfil  his  duty  to  his  country,  by  fubmitting 
to  you,  with  no  other  confidence  than  what 
truth  infpires,  his  thoughts  on  this  moft  im- 
portant fubje6t;  and  at  this  critical  oppor- 
tunity, which  alone  has  been  given  to  us, 
by  the  virtue  of  perfevering  patriotifm,  to 

emancipate 


THE   FREEHOLDER.  33 

emancipate  our  freeholds,  and  to  vindicate 
the  conftitution. 

We  are  no  longer  funk  in  the  dead  repofe 
of  defpotifm,  and  long  parliaments.  Thofe 
ftagnations  of  corruption  and  filth,  (hall  no 
more  poifon  the  land.  "Alba  nautis  Jlella, 
if  refulfit."  The  returning  day-ftar  of  the 
conftitution  again  illuminates  the  political 
hemifphere;  and,  in  fulnefs  of  fplendour, 
difplays  the  glorious  moment  which  reftores 
to  us  our  original  rights.  The  power  which 
we  delegated,  and  the  truft  which  we  con- 
ferred, revert  to  us.  The  conftitution  rege- 
nerates. .And  the  new  birth  infpires  new 
vigour.  As  the  giant  received  renovation 
of  ftrength  from  touching  his  mother  earth, 
fo  the  rights  of  the  people  acquire  new  fpring 
and  force,  when  brought  back  to  their 
original  and  parent-fource,  the  people's 
voice. 

Surely  my  brethren  will  not  be  fo  blind 
to  their  moft  effential  interefts,  as  to  negleft, 
or  abufe,  this  only  opportunity  of  protecting 
them.  Is  there  a  man  amongft  you,  who 
will  not  praife  and  honour  that  truly  confti- 
tutional  meafure,  the  bill  for  fliortening  the 

VOL.  i.  D  duration 


34  THE    FREEHOLDER. 

duration  of  parliaments  ?  Shall  there  then  be 
found  a  (lave,  fo  fottifhly  dull,  or  fo  fhame- 
lefsly  bafe,  as  to  thwart  the  glorious  pur- 
pofe  intended  by  that  admirable  bill  ?-r-The 
purpofe  of  independence — the  caufe  of  li- 
berty ! 

Such,  my  friends,  are  the  invaluable  blef- 
fings  now  within  our  grafp.  Such  are  the 
tranfcendant  rewards  now  prefented  to  us 
by  the  opportunity  of  an  election.  Power 
now  returns  to  its  genuine  centre,  the  will 
of  the  people.  It  is  theirs,  and  only  theirs, 
to  put  it  in  action,  and  to  prefcribe  its  ope- 
rations. The  vital  blood  ebbs  back  to  the 
heart  of  the  conjlitution.  Let  us  imitate  the 
wifdom  of  nature,  and  we  (hall  attain  its  fuc^ 
cefsful  effects.  Let  us  give  the  vital  ftreams 
again  to  flow  through  their  conftitutional 
channels.  So  mail  the  health  of  the  whole 
body  be  reftored,  and  its  ftrength  eflablifhed. 
Every  part  of  it  mall] revive  and  flourim. 
And  the  ghaftly  countenance  of  poverty  and 
fervitude,  (hall  brighten  into  the  fmile  of 
happinefs  and  the  triumph  of  liberty. 

I  have  faid,  that  the  opportunity  of  attain- 
ing thefe  glorious  objects  is  now  prefented 

to 


THE   FREEHOLDER.  35 

to  us*  To  prove  this  important  truth, 
and  to  inculcate  the  ufe  we  mould  make  of 
this  important  crHis,  mail  be  the  bufmefs  of 
my  future  letters. 

In  the  mean  time,  permit  me  to  add  a  word 
relative  to  myfelf.  If  the  caufe  of  truth  re- 
quired afliftance,  perhaps  fome  might  be  de- 
rived to  it,  from  the  difmterefted  character  of 
her  advocate.  To  begin  then  negatively, — • 
I  am  not  actuated  to  this  undertaking  by  an 
idle  ambition,  of  applaufe  in  general,  nor  of 
the  particular  approbation  of  any  of  your 
candidates  :  for  my  name  is  unknown,  and  I 
hope  will  remain  fo.  I  am  not  a  great  man, 
nor  a  placeman,  nor  a  penfioner,  nor  a 
Jacobite,  nor  a  Tory,  nor  a  flave ;  nor  do 
I  afpire  to  any  of  thofe  honourable  appella- 
tions, either  jointly  or  feverally.  I  do  not 
on  the  other  hand,  "  beat  the  drum  of  fac- 
tion, nor  found  the  trumpet  of  fedition." 
For  I  do  moft  pojitively  and  fokmnly  proteft 
myfelf,  a  ZEALOUS  FRIEND  TO  THE  CON- 
STITUTION, as  eftablifhed  in  CHURCH  and 
STATE.  I  am  religioufly  attached  to  the 
palladium  of  all  our  liberties,  the  liberty  of 
the  prefs.  In  fhort,  I  am  a  FREEMAN  ;  and, 
D  2  — a  title 


3  THE    FREEHOLDER. 

—a  title  which  I  would  not  exchange  for 
a  French  dukedom,  nor  the  higheft  feat  in  the 

Turkifh  divan 

lam, 

Fet.  5/£»  1776. 

A  FREEHOLDER. 


LETTER  II. 

/  cannot  doubt  that  you  will  unanimoufly  affert  the 
freedom  of  elettion,  and  vindicate  your  exdujivc 
right  to  choofeyour  reprefentatives.  JUNIUS. 


U  R  fuffrages  are  folicited  by  four  can- 
didates,, for  the  reprefentation  of  our  county 
in  parliament.  The  nature  therefore  of  this 
great  objecl:,  the  truft  of  reprefentation. 
demands  our  moft  ferious  attention.  Duly 
imprefled  with  an  awful  conviction  of  its 
magnitude,  we  (hall  proceed,  with  a  due 
proportion  of  anxiety,  to  fcrutinize  the 
merits  of  thofe  who  afpire  to  it. 

Let 


THE  FREEHOLDER.  37 

Let  me,  in  the  firft  place,  conjure  you, 
my  countrymen,  never  to  lofe  fight  of  the 
great  fundamental  principle,  that  You  are 
the  origin  of  power.  Government  was  con- 
ftituted  by,  and  for,  the  people.  This  is 
the  voice  of  reafon,  and  the  right  of  huma- 
nity :  and  applies  in  theory  to  all  the  na- 
tions of  the  world.  But  it  is  our  peculiar 
felicity,  to  realize  the  fpeculation ;  and  to 
feel  its  aclual  bleffings.  We  are  de  jatto, 
as  well  as  de  jure,  free. 

The  fuperiour  freedom  of  our  conftitu- 
tion,  refults  from  the  admirable  difpofition 
of  its  component  powers.  Thefe  are  ex- 
a6lly  competent  to  the  pureft  purpofes  of 
liberty.  For  as  the  natural  tendency  of 
each,  is  to  the  benefit  of  all,  that  is,  to  ge- 
neral liberty  ;  fo  this  difpofition  is  confirm- 
ed, and  confined  to  its  object,  by  the  relative 
controul  of  each  power  over  the  others. 
The  people  deliberate,  the  peers  approve, 
and  the  king  aflents.  This  triple  authority 
makes  the  law.  The  execution  of  which  is 
entrufted  to  the  royal  arm,  merely  for  the 
fake  of  decifion  and  dif patch.  For  if  the 
executive  power  abufe  its  truft,  the  controul 

both 


38  THE   FREEHOLDER. 

both  of  Peers  and  People  impends,  to  reftify 
the  abufe,  and  to  punifh  its  author.  If  the 
peers,  forgetful  of  the  trujl  which  their  coun- 
try repofes  in  their  wtfdom,  Jhould  violently 
aJJ'ume  new  privileges ;  or,  BY  GRADUAL 

ENCROACHMENT     ON     THE      RIGHTS     OF 

THE  PEOPLE,  Jhould  grafp  at  arijlocracy ; 
the  dignity  of  the  crown  (hould  difcoun- 
tenance  their  attempts  : — ^THE  SPIRIT  OF 
THE  PEOPLE  WILL  SUPPRESS  THEM.  If, 
laftly,  the  deliberations  of  the  people  fwell 
intofaclion  and  fedition,  a  gentle  but  CER- 
TAIN REMEDY  is  entrufted  to  the  executive 
power.  Thus  thefe  three  powers  conftitute 
that  fyflem  of  government,  fo  peculiarly 
the  boaft  of  thefe  kingdoms  !—  fo  juflly  the 
wonder  of  the  world  ! 

But  it  is  particularly  obfervable,  that  the 
very  eflence  of  this  fyftem,  is  the  jealous 
relation  which  the  component  parts  bear, 
each  to  the  other.  This  is  the  ruling  prin- 
ciple ;  which,  by  checking  the  exceffes  of 
each,  fecures  the  juft  power  and  happinefs 
of  all.  If  this  be  in  any  degree  relaxed, 
the  general  liberty  fo  far  fuffers  immediate 
injury,  and  incurs  the  danger  of  abfolute 

ruin. 


THE   FREEHOLDER.  39 

ruin.  For  inftance ;  if  the  people  (hould 
ceafe  to  be  the  jealous  guardians  of  their 
own  rights  ;  and,  inftead  of  controuling  the 
executive,  fhould  implicitly  acquiefce  to  it ; 
that  power,  whole  duty  it  was  to  execute 
the  laws,  will  gradually  grow  above  them. 
Furnifhed  with  the  means  of  exercifing  def- 
potifm,  the  inclination  will  at  lead  keep 
pace  with  the  power.  Manoeuvres  of  go- 
vernment will  then  be  pra&ifed  with  fuc- 
cefs,  becaufe  without  restraint ;  and,  though 
the  fpirit  of  the  conftitution  be  fled,  the 
forms  of  it  may  be  preferved.  Advances 
will  be  made  with  caution,  left  too  violent 
a  tranfition  mould  roufe  the  (lumbering 
people.  Their  affemblies  may  be  continued, 
as  they  ceafe  to  be  troublefome ;  for  cor- 
ruption is  an  eafier  engine  than  violence, 
and  more  furely  fuccefsful.  New  offices  are 
created,  and  great  falaries  annexed.  Old 
ones  are  continued,  and  receive  great  addi- 
tion. Seduftion  afTumes  every  (hape,  of 
penfion  againft  law,  office  without  employ- 
ment, and  falary  without  fervice.  Till,  at 
laft,  the  corrupt  a6ts  of  uncontrouled  am- 
bition (hall  have  undermined  that  conftitu- 

tion, 


40  THE   FREEHOLDER. 

tion,  which  had  for  centuries  repelled  its 
open  and  avowed  attacks  :  an'l  our  expiring 
liberty  fhall  fatally  verify  the  prediction  of 
the  fagacious  Montefquieu,  "  It  will  perifn 
"  when  the  legislative  power  fhall  be  more 
"  corrupt  than  the  executive." 

This  fhort  abftraft  of  our  conftitution  in 
its  genuine  ftate,  and  of  the  dangers  to 
which  it  is  expofed  in  its  abufe,  will  fuggeil: 
to  you  many  reflections.  But  none  more 
important  than  this ;  that  as  the  People, 
from  their  numbers,  are  obliged  to  aft  by 
reprefentation ;  their  department  of  liberty 
is  therefore  more  endangered.  For  the 
common  maxim  faith  truly,  that  every  man 
does  his  own  bufmefs  befl.  The  crown  has 
a  fingle,  and  therefore  a  clear  attention  to 
its  own  interefts.  And  Jfrom  the  mighty 
increafe  of  influence  arifing  from  number- 
lefs  caufes,  fome  perhaps  neceffary,  and  all 
powerful,  the  rights  of  royalty  are  certainly 
in  no  danger  of  diminution,  The  Nobles 
are  equally  fecure.  Their  wealth  and  ho- 
nours, whether  defervedly  poffeffed  or  not, 
give  them  great  aftual  weight  in  the  fcale. 
And  the  jealous  diflant  fpirit,  characteriftick 

of 


THE  FREEHOLDER.  4! 

of  that  proud  body,  enfure  to  them  the 
prefervation  of  it.  But  the  People  cannot 
take  an  immediate  part  in  legislation.  They 
are  obliged  to  delegate  their  power.  And 
delegation  necelforily  weakens  the  origi- 
nal force.  Your  neceffary  fituation,  there- 
fore, in  the  political  fabrick,  expofes  you  to 
danger ;  even  though  you  endeavour  to 
take  your  poft  with  wifdom,  and  with  ho- 
nefty.  But  if  blindly  you  defcrt  your  fta- 
tion,  and  dishonourably  entruft  its  defence 
to  weak  or  wicked  mercenaries,  ruin  muft 
inevitably  overwhelm  the  whole  magnificent 
ftrufture  of  our  liberties.  The  glorious  arch 
which  had  fupported  them,  miSi!  fall  to  the 
ground ;  if  its  key-done,  the  independence 
of  the  people,  be  permitted  to  moulder 
away. 

Roufe  then,  my  friends  and  fellow-free- 
holders !  Again,  and  again,  agitate  in  your 
minds  the  extenfive  importance  of  the  pre- 
fent  moment.  The  truft  you  are  to  repofe, 
is  the  truft  of  legiflation.  -In  it,  are  involved 
your  property,  your  lives,  and  your  liberties. 
If  you  efteem  them  worth  preferving,  "  af- 
fert  the  freedom  of  eleclion,"  and,  "  vin- 
dicate 


42  THE  FREEHOLDER. 

dicate  your  exclufive  right  to  choofe  your 
reprefentatives." 

Who  they  fhould  be,  I  (hall,  with  due 
deference  to  your  integrity  and  better  judg- 
ment, fubmit  to  you  in  my  future  Letters. 
In  which,  if  I  freely  and  thoroughly  difcufs 
the  pretenfions  of  our  prefent  candidates; 
J  trufl  the  notoriety  of  the  fubjecl:,  and  its 
infinite  importance,  will  amply  excufe  me. 
At  all  events,  I  can  truly  fay  with  the  phi- 
lofopher  of  Geneva,  "  I  (hall  find  my  apo- 
"  logy  and  comfort  at  the  bottom  of  my 
«  heart." 

A  FREEHOLDER. 

Ffb.  gth,  1776. 


LETTER 


THE    FREEHOLDER.  43 


LETTER  III. 

4U  Members  ought  to  be  inhabitants  of  the  places  for 
which  they  are  chofen.  BLACKSTONE. 

i 

No  Lord  of  Parliament  hath  any  right  to  interfere  in 
the  election  of  Commoners.  BLACKSTONE, 

1  T  is  perhaps  unnecefiTary,  but  I  find  it 
fatisfaftory  to  my  own  feelings,  to  premife 
an  obfervation,  concerning  the  difcuflion  of 
public  characters. 

Every  man  who  folicits  public  favour, 
ipfo  fado,  fubmits  himfelf  to  public  trial. 
As  the  confidence  of  his  country  is  the  ob- 
ject, merit  to  his  country  mould  be  the 
means :  and  he  cannot  hope  to  gain  his 
fuit,  until  his  title  be  thoroughly  examined. 
In  the  moft  vulgar  inftances  this  preliminary 
prevails.  The  bailiff,  who  propofes  to  fu- 
perintend  your  farm ;  the  fervant,  who  pe- 
titions for  a  menial  place  in  your  family ; 
produces  credentials  of  former  good  be- 
haviour :  and  gives  fecurity  for  its  continu- 
ance. 


44  THE  FREEHOLDER. 

ance.  When,  therefore,  higher  trulls  arc 
folicited  ;  the  foundations  of  confidence 
mould  be  more  deeply  laid.  Let  us,  my 
countrymen,  examine  them  to  the  bottom. 

The  Hon.  Heny  Seymour  Conway,  the 
Hon.  Hugh  Skeffington,  John  O'Neill,  efq.* 
and  James  Willfon,  efq.,  are  our  candi- 
dates.— As  a  compliment  due  to  the  Jlran- 
ger,  let  us  begin  with  Mr.  Conway. 

Mr.  Conway  refides  in  England ;  fixed 
there  by  connection,  by  inclination,  and  by 
duty.  His  father  is  an  Englifh  Earl,  Lord 
Chamberlain  to  his  Majefty's  houfehold,  and 
unalienably  attached  to  the  court.  Pof- 
fefled  of  an  ample  fortune  in  Ireland,  he 
remembers  that  country  only  in  the  large 
remittances  which  he  draws  from  her  ex- 
hauPced  bofom  :  unlefs  indeed  his  attention 
be  fometimes  revived  at  the  polite  period  of 
oclennial  condefcenfion.  All  his  great  ta- 
lents (conftrue  the  word  if  you  will,  only  as 
the  Romans  ufed  it) — his  univerfal  fervices, 
his  numerous  connexions— as  far  at  leaft  as 

*  Since  the  writing  of  this  Letter,  Mr.  O'Neill  has 
declined  {landing  candidate  for  reprefenting  the  county 
of  Antrim. 

he 


THE  FREEHOLDER.  45 

he  can  fway  them — are  conftantly  employed 
in  England ;  and  are  implicitly  devoted  to 
Englifh  adminiflration.  But  inclination,  as 
well  as  connection,  naturally  attaches  a 
young  gentleman  of  Mr.  Conway's  rank 
and  figure,  to  London-refidence.  Befides 
he  is  indifpenfably  faftened  to  England,  by 
his  feat  in  the  Britifh  Houfe  of  Commons. 
Whether  he  fits  there,  an  independent  fena- 
tor,  or  a  mere  expletive  of  his  father's  in- 
tereft,  is  not  now  inquired.  He  does  fit 
there;  and  he  muft  remain  there.  How 
then  can  he  reprefent  our  county  in  an  Irifh 
parliament  ?  He  is  not  only  not  "  an  inha- 
bitant of  this  place,"  and  therefore  an  un- 
conflitutional  candidate,  but  he  is  an  actual 
abfentee  from  this  kingdom,  and  therefore 
an  impoflible  reprefentative.  The  objec- 
tion is  infuperable.  It  is  not  an  intricate 
deduction  of  argument,  to  which  perhaps 
fpecious  fophiftry  might  be  oppofed.  It  is 
an  unanfwerable  point  of  fact.  He  cannot 
reprefent  you.  Weigh  then  the  confe- 
quence,  my  friends !— I  was  going  to  fay, 
my  fellow-freeholders  ! — But  that  glorious 
title  would  no  longer  be  yours.  You  would 

in 


46  TfcE  FREEHOLDER. 

in  effect  disfranchife  yourfelves.  Every 
vote  given  to  a  man,  who  cannot  aft  for 
you,  is  felony  to  your  freeholds.  It  would 
be  high-treafon  to  your  moft  glorious  pri- 
vilege, the  characleriftick  of  a  free  people ! 
for  you  would  furely  ceafe  "  to  give  your 
confent  to  laws,"  when  you  withdraw  your 
voice,  that  is  your  reprefentative,  from  the 
legiflative  afifembly.  If  then,  no  other  ob- 
jeclion  prevailed  ;  if  his  fituation  and  fenti- 
ments  were  perfectly  independent  and  in- 
corrupt ;  if  in  fhort,  inftead  of  the  prefent 
exiftence  of  things,  every  circumftance  uni- 
ted in  his  favour ;  this  {ingle  objection  of 
abfence  is  invincibly  decifive  againft  his 
claims. 

A  vague  obfervation  is  fometimes  ad- 
vanced, that  though  abfent  from  the  Irifh 
Houfe,  it  is  good  to  have  a  reprefentative 
in  the  Britifh  Houfe  of  Commons  ;  where 
his  fervices  may  compenfate  for  his  Irifh 
omnTions.  This  is  hardly  the  fhadow  of 
argument.  But  as  even  fhadows  may 
alarm,  it  may  be  worth  while  to  difpel  it. 
In  the  firft  place,  I  beg  the  blunder  may  be 
rectified.  Let  him  be  called  any  thing  but 

an 


THE  FREEHOLDER.  47 

an  Irijh  reprefentative  in  an  Englifh  Houfe  of 
Commons.  And  as  to  his  fer vices  there,  and 
the  inference  drawn  from  them,  they  are 
overturned  both  by  facl:  and  argument. 
Firft,  what  fer  vices,  eflential  important  fer- 
vices,  have  been  performed  for  Ireland,  by 
any  of  thefe  Irifh-Englifti  reprefentatives  ? 
None;  that  they  mould  not  blufh  to  men- 
tion :  becaufe  fo  trifling,  and  fo  inferiour. 
But  I  (hall  hereafter,  perhaps,  prefs  more 
particularly  on  this  topick. — Next,  if  they 
had  done  real  fervice  to  Ireland;  would 
they  not  have  done  it, — ought  they  not  to 
have  done  it, — without  infulting  us  with 
this  mock-reprefentation !— It  is  an  extra- 
ordinary claim  to  our  favour,  to  tell  us  that 
nothing  (hall  induce  our  candidate  to  ferve 
us,  but  a  furrender  of  our  moft  valuable 
privileges. 

A  FREEHOLDER. 

Feb.  iyht  1776. 


LET- 


48  THE  FREEHOLDER, 


LETTER  IV. 

It  is  ejfential  to  the  very  being  of  Parliament,  that 
Elections JJiould,  be  abfolutely  free.  BLACKSTONE. 

For  thus  to  regulate  Candidates  and  Electors,  and 
new-model  the  ways  of  Election;  what  is  it,  but  to 
cut  up  the  Government  by  the  roots,  and  poifon  the 
very  fountain  of  Publick  Security  ?  LOCKE. 

.LET  me  again,  and  again,  urge  to  you 
the  motto  of  my  third  Letter.  "  No  Lord 
of  Parliament  hath  any  right  to  interfere  in 
the  election  of  Commoners."  This  is  the 
law  of  the  land.  Remember  it,  my  coun- 
trymen! revere  it;  maintain  it.  It  is  the 
grand  barrier  of  the  conftitution.  While  it 
Hands  firm,  you  remain  fafely  and  invincibly 
entrenched  in  your  own  privileges.  But  if 
ever  you  furrender  it  to  the  enemy,  you  are 
irretrievably  ruined.  The  democratick 
eftate  will  be  annihilated  out  of  the  confti- 
tution, and  you  will  be  melted  down  into 
a  vile  vaflalage  ;  the  devoted  prey  and  plun- 
der of  your  defpotick  conquerors. 

I  am 


THE  FREEHOLDER.  49 

I  am  the  more  warmly  incenfed  to  thefe 
remonftrances,  and  I  doubt  not  but  you 
will  catch  the  flame,  from  a  flagrant  infult 
which  I  have  SEEN  offered  to  your  rights  ; 
a  direcl  violation  of  your  mod  valuable  pri- 
vilege. I  have  read  a  letter  from  the  Earl 
of  Hertford,  who,  you  know,  is  a  PEER  in 
both  countries,  written  with  his  own  hand 
and  fubfcribed  with  his  title,  "begging  the 
vote  and  inter  eft  of  a  freeholder,  "for  his 
Jon  Henry,  at  the  next  General  Eleclion" 
This  I  have  feen ;  and  this  I  will  prove  in 
proper  time  and  place,  if  the  fatal  fuccefs  of 
any  unconditional  confpiracy  (hall  make 
it  neceffery  for  the  independent  freeholders 
to  appeal  to  an  independent  tribunal.  In 
the  mean  time,  I  fubmit  the  faft  to  your 
juft  indignation. 

The  claims  of  Mr.  Con  way  were  perhaps 
more  than  fufEciently  refuted,  in  my  laft 

Letter.     I  cannot,  however,  forbear  a  fhort 
/• 

comment  on  his  advertifement. — It  is  really 
an  unique  ;  and  I  hope  will  juflify^any  tau- 
tology I  may  commit. 

"  My  brother,  Lord  Beauchamp,  being 
"  detained  by  bufmefs  in  England,  does  not 

VOL.  i.  i:  "  prefume 


50  THE  FREEHOLDER. 

"  prefume  again  to  offer  his  fervices,"  &c.— 
Detention  in  England,  it  feems  is  an  infur- 
mountable  objection  againft  the  offer  of 
fervice  to  a  county  in  Ireland.  I  heartily 
concur  with  the  honourable  gentleman.  It 
is  an  infuperable  obflacle.  Why  then  does 
he,  detained  as  he  knows  he  muft  be  in  Eng- 
land,— why  does  he  "  prefume"  to  offer 
fervices  which  he  cannot  give  ;  and  to  fo- 
licit  trufl  which  he  cannot  execute  ?  But, 
"  Lord  Beauchamp  will  not  again  offer  his 
fervices."  Does  Mr.  Conway  infinuate, 
that  his  brother  ever  gave  us  his  fervices  ? 
If  fo,  we  have  reafon  to  thank  him  for  his 
candid  confeflion  of  his  principles.  -  Accord- 
ing to  him,  the  country  will  be  excellently 
ferved,  by  "the  abfence  of  its  fervants :  and 
the  duty  of  parliament  completely  attended 
to,  by  being  totally  neglected. 

The  Hon.  Mr.  Hugh  Skeffington  next 
prefents  himfelf  to  our  confideration.  It  is 
obvious  that  much  of  what  has  been  faid, 
and  proved,  againfl  the  unconflitutional  in- 
terference of  Peers  in  our  elections;  will  ap- 
ply as  decifively  againft  this  gentleman,  as 
Mr.  Conway ;  or,  if  poflible,  more  fo. 

The 


THE  FREEHOLDER.  5! 

The  immediate  prefence  of  the  noble 
Peer,  who  takes  his  title  from  your  county, 
may  have  more  immediate  effeft  ;— unlefs, 
my  countrymen,  we  fteadily  purfue  the  con- 
duel,  prefcribed  to  us  by  every  confideration 
that  can  actuate  freemen.  Our  duty  as  free- 
holders, inculcates  the  neceffity  of  repelling 
thefe  lordly  encroachments  on  our  privi- 
leges ;  even  when  they  threaten  from  afar. 
But  we  are  bound  to  the  mod  aftive  vigi- 
lance, when  the  danger  aflails  our  doors ; 
when  the  mifchief  is  actually  amongft  us. 
Let  every  heart  confent  to  abhor  it :  let  every 
hand  concur  to  cad  it  forth.  Let  us  think 
as  becomes  rational  beings,  that  liberty  is 
the  mod  tranfcendent  blefling: — Let  us  a6l 
like  men  of  virtue,  and  p refer ve  it : 

"  O !  let  it  never  perifh  in  your  hands* 
"  But  pioufly  tranfmit  it  to  your  children." 

I  mall,  in  my  next  Letter,  conlider  the  other 
grounds  of  Mr.  Skeffington's  public  preten- 
lions. 

A  FREEHOLDER. 
Ft/-.  1 7/£,  1776, 

c 

£2  LET- 


52  THE   FREEHOLDER. 


LETTER  V. 

The  great  advantage  of  reprefentatives,  is  their  capa- 
city of  dif cuffing  Public  Affairs.      MON TESQU  I E u , 

A  H  E  neceflity  of  reprefentation  in  par- 
liament, arifes  from  the  impoilibility  of  af- 
fembling  there  collectively.  Or,  though 
this  colle&ive  aflemblage  were  poflible,  yet 
might  we  for  convenience,  prefer  the  mode 
of  afting  by  reprefentatives.  For  a  great 
advantage  accrues,  from  "  their  capacity  of 
difcufTmg  publick  affairs/' 

Let  us  examine  in  what  this  capacity 
confifts.  Two  qualifications  are  neceffary 
to  form  it ;  publick  integrity,  and  publick 
ability.  By  publick  integrity  I  mean,  a 
temper  of  mind  fuperiour  to  all  private 
views  whatever;  which  equally  fpurns  the 
allurements  of  corruption,  the  mandates  of 
power,  and  the  influence  of  connections ; 
fleadily  and  folely  intent  on  one  great  ob- 
ject, the  Publick  Weal.  Publick  ability. 

implies 


THE    FREEHOLDER.  53 

implies  the  faculty  of  attaining  this  object. 
An  enlarged  mind,  to  comprehend  the  pub- 
lick  bufinefs,  an  enlightened  understanding  to 
agitate  anddifcufs  it;  and  an  undaunted  fpirit, 
to  carry  it  into  execution  ;  are  all  involved 
in  this  extenfive  term.  It  is,  indeed,  a  qua- 
lity of  the  higheft  nature  and  ufe.  And, 
ftanding  on  the  foundation  of  publick  inte- 
grity, constitutes  that  moft  glorious  charac- 
ter, the  capacity  of  reprefenting  a  free 
people. 

In  comparing  Mr.  Skeffington's  publick 
pretenfions  with  thefe  various  requifites,  I 
really  find  myfelf  embarraffed.  For,  even 
in  this  publick  difcuflion,  feverity  mould  if 
poflible  be  avoided.  I  (hall  argue,  there- 
fore, only  negatively  ;  leaving  to  your  judg- 
ments, and  your  knowledge,  to  fupply  what 
delicacy  fuppreffes. 

To  communicate  to  you,  therefore,  what 
I  have  not  difcovered ;  I  am  forry-to  confefs, 
that  my  ftricleft  inquiry  into  this  gentle- 
man's publick  capacity,  hath  not  been  able 
to  trace  any  one  of  the  qualifications  which 
I  have  enumerated.  It  is,  therefore,  a  mat- 
ter of  fome  furprize  to  his  friends,  that  he 

mould 


54  THE    FREEHOLDER. 

fhould  refer  us,  in  the  firft  paragraph  of  his 
publick  addrefs,  to  "  the  honour  formerly 
conferred  on  him,  in  being  chofen  our  repre- 
fentative."  For,  they  argue,  that  he  never 
was  really  in  that  capacity.  The  component 
parts  were  totally  wanting.  How  then  could 
the  compound  fubfift  ?  A  reference,  there- 
fore, to  that  miftaken  aera,  ferves  only  to 
warn  us  againft  a  fecond  errour.  Efpecially 
an  errour  of  fuch  fatal  importance.  If  he 
had  never  been  in  that  fituation ;  we  might 
have  thought  it  poflible,  that  he  mould  at 
leaft  feem  to  fill  it.  But  unfortunately 
for  his  prefent  pretenfions,  experience  con- 
firms the  dictate  of  our  judgment ;  and 
realizes  the  beautiful  allufion  of  Lord  Bo- 
lingbroke,  "  that  a  little  ftatue  placed  on  a 
mighty  pedeflal,  looks  lefs, — dwindles  into 
nothing — from  its  elevation." 

It  is  obvious  that  I  ftudy  to  fpeak  gently 
of  this  gentleman.  Content  with  this  nega- 
tive argument  againft  his  fufficiency,  I  do  not 
alledge  pofitive  charges  of  betraying  truft. 
I  do  not  refer  to  venal  majorities,  black 
lifts,  and  the  obedient  aye  or  w<v--the  utmoft 
eloquence  "  and  fervice/'  of  fome  repre- 

fentatives : 


THE  FREEHOLDER.  55 

fentatives :  I  fpeak  not  of  uniform  devo- 
tion to  the  court,  and  to  courtly  connec- 
tions ;  I  only  fubmit  to  my  countrymen 
that,  independent  of  fuch  pofitive  guilt, 
their  duty  as  freeholders  obliges  them  to 
rejecl:  a  candidate,  who  is  bbvioufly  and 
totally  deftitute  of  all  the  requifite  qualifica- 
tions. 

Permit  me,  in  fome  meafure  to  atone  to 
my  own  feelings,  for  the  difagreeable  necef- 
fity  of  thefe  publick  truths,  by  a  juft  tribute 
to  the  private  character  of  this  gentleman. 
As  far  as  my  knowledge  of  it  reaches,  I 
gladly  bear  teftimony  to  its  being  amiable, 
good-humoured,  and  friendly.  Nay,  there 
is  a  fpecies  of  delicacy  in  it,  which  reflects 
fome  honour  on  him  as  a  man;  accompa- 
nied, alas  !  with  an  infirmity  of  mind  that 
difgraces  him  as  a  fenator.  For  I  have 
good  authority  to  fay,  that  he  laments 
the  fervitude  of  his  fituation.  We  all 
know,  too  well,  that  he  cannot  make  it 
off.  He  has  fenfibility  to  feel  the  chain  ; 
without  the  fpirit,  the  enterprize  of  mind, 
that  (hould  call  it  away,  and  dare  to  be 
free. 

Reflea 


56  THE    FREEHOLDER. 

Reflect  now,  my  countrymen ! — Nothing 
can  be  wanting  to  your  free  exertion  of  your 
privileges,  and  vindication  of  your  rights, 
on  this  great  occafion  ;  if  you  give  it  deep 
and  due  attention.  You  will  then  be  con- 
vinced that  your  grandeft  happinefs,  the 
true  fummum  bonum,  which  the  ancients 
puzzled  for  in  vain,  your  LIBERTY  is  at 
(lake.  Founded,  as  it  is,  in  every  virtue ; 
you  will  confefs  it  paramount  to  every  blef- 

fing :  For, 

/ 

"  Wanting  virtue,  life  is  pain  and  woe; 
"  But,  wanting  Liberty,  even  virtue  mourns, 
"  And  looks  around  for  happinefs  in  vain." 

To  point  out  the  path  that  leads  to  this 
glorious  object,  (hall  be  the  more  pleating 
bufinefs  of  my  fucceeding  Letters. — Long 
enough  have  our  eyes  ached  over  this 
barren  profpect ;  where  no  verdure  of 
virtue  quickens,--- -no  publick  fervice  is  feen 
to  bloffbm.  We  will  with  pleafure  turn 
our  view,  and  our  choice,  to  a  more  fer- 
tile foil,  pregnant  with  the  richefl  feeds : 
which  wait  only  for  the  cultivation  of 

our 


THE    FREEHOLDER.  57 

our  favour,    to    ripen    into    the    happieft 
harveft. 


A  FREEHOLDER, 

Feb.  l^th,  1776. 


LETTER  VI. 

He  hath  no  employment  under  the  crown;  nor  is 
likely  to  get  or  folicit  for  any  ; — He  hath  hitherto 
been  above  temptation  to  ad  wrong;  and>  therefore 
is  the  moft  likely  to  aft  right,  as  a  Reprefentative. 

SWIFT. 


1  0  whom,  my  countrymen !  doth  this  glo- 
rious defcription  apply?  To  whom  would 
the  immortal  writer  himfelf  have  given  it  ? — 
who  ftudied,  underftood,  and  promoted  the 
interefls  of  this  country,  more  perhaps  than 
any  patriot  me  ever  enjoyed !  Moft  afTu- 

redly 


58  THE   FREEHOLDER. 

redly  not  to  the  devoted  connexions  of  fa- 
milies, uniformly  and  univerfally  enflaved  to 
court-corruptions,  and  gaping  for  "  court- 
employments."  But  as  if  the  reverend  cham- 
pion of  our  liberties  had  forefeen  the  contefl 
of  this  day,  he  almoft  exprefsly  defcribes  to 
your  choice,  your  prefent  CONSTITU- 
TIONAL CANDIDATE;  JAMES  WILLSON, 
Efq. 

-"  He  hath  no  employment  under  the 
crown  ;  nor  is  likely  to  get  or  folicit  for 
any :"  for,  his  own  voluntary  virtue  hath 
precluded  him  from  the  poflibility.  "  He 
hath  hitherto  been  above  temptation  to  aft 
wrong:"  Not  only  years  of  genuine  and 
applauded  fervice,  with  the  conftant  exer- 
tions of  uncorrupt  abilities,  confpire  to 
prove  it;  but  let  us,  with  admiration,  re- 
flect on  the  immediate  effort  of  virtue,  which 
gives  him  to  our  choice  :  It  is  not  only  "  a 
fuperiority  to  the  temptation  of  acting 
wrong,"  but  a  refinement  in  affling  right; 
unparalleled,  I  will  be  bold  to  fey,  in  elec- 
tion annals.  He  hath  "  entirely  rejected  a 
feat  in  Parliament  for  a  borough  in  another 
county/' — offered  to  him  by  a  gentleman 

and 


THE    FREEHOLDER.  59 

and  a  friend ;  devoting  himfelf  folely  to 
your  fervice,  in  the  purefl  fpirit  of  liberty ; 
while  there  is  a  man  among  you,  whp  will 
co-operate  with  him  to  reftore  it. 

However  ambitious  of  a  feat  in  parlia- 
ment, he  is  more  ambitious  of  the  moft 
honourable  means  of  obtaining  it.  And  let 
me  repeat,  with  an  unexampled  virtue  re- 
fufes  the  fmooth  and  certain  acquisition  of 
it,  through  a  private  medium ;  trufting, — 
nee  vana  fides  ! — that  his  publick  exertions 
againfl  the  grand  confpiracy,  may  con- 
tribute to  refcue  the  liberties  of  his  coun- 
try. 

This  is  a  facl,  which  it  is  good  to  confi- 
der.  Confidering,  we  muft  admire.  Ad- 
miring, we  (hall  learn  to  imitate,  and  unite 
to  reward  it.  For,  let  us  reflect,  my^coun- 
trymen!  it  eftablifhes  a  claim  on  our  juftice, 
as  well  as  our  honour.  PoffefTed  of  fo  va- 
luable a  certainty,  and  fo  coveted  a  rank, — 
the  objeft  of  ambition  to  all,  and  the  means 
of  emolument  to  moft ;  he  refigns  it.  Why 
is  this  facrifice?  confidered  as  a  thing  of 
intereft,  the  honefty  of  his  mind  fpurned  it. 
—But,  in  its  fairer  light,  as  a  rank  of  the 

mod 


60  THE  FREEHOLDER. 

moil  honourable  elevation,  why  did  he  tear 
himfelf  from  the  poffeflion  of  his  darling 
objecl  ?  Evidently,  for  the  ftill  nobler  and 
purer  purpofe  of  vindicating,  at  lead  in  this 
fphere  of  action,  the  liberties  of  his  coun- 
try ;  and  of  refloring  to  you,  the  freeholders 
of  the  county  of  Antrim,  your  moft  im- 
portant and  tranfcendent  privilege,  Freedom 
of  Election. — Not  to  fee  this,  were  more 
than  blindnefs.  Not  to  reward  it,  were 
worfe  than  ingratitude. 

But  we  will  not  admit,  even  for  a  mo- 
ment, fuch  unworthy  fufpicions.  We  turn 
our  eyes  with  pleafure,  to  the  more  becom- 
ing, and  profperous  flate  of  virtue  amongft 
us.  For  it  is  with  the  fincereft  joy,  I  con- 
gratulate my  countrymen,  on  the  encreafmg 
vigour  of  our  juft  and  generous  fpirit  of  in- 
dependency. What  thanks  do  we  not  owe,  ' 
— what  fupport  (hall  we  not  give,  to  THE 
MAN  who  hath  rouzed  this  (lumbering 
fpirit,  and  called  it  into  action  ? — devoting 
himfelf  to  fall,  or  to  conquer,  with  it : — and 
who  hath  facrificed  to  it,  the  very  advan- 
tages, which  other  men  make  the  primary 
object  of  their  wifhes ! 

He 


THE    FREEHOLDER.  6l 

He  who  hath  acled  fo  eminently  right  as 
a  candidate,  is  furely  "  mofl  likely,"  in  the 
words  of  rny  great  authority,  "  to  aft  right 
as  a  reprefentative."  It  is  therefore  our  in- 
difpenfable  duty  to  him,  to  ourfelves,  and 
to  our  country,  to  elecl:  him  to  that  facred 
fituation.— Thefe  truths  are  prefled  on 
my  countrymen,  not  from  any  doubt  of 
their  fpirit,  or  their  virtue,  on  this  great 
crifis.  But  as  it  was  well  faid  by  an  eminent 
politician,  "  that  the  Britifh  conftitution  was 
the  bujinefs  of  every  Briton," — which  I  hope, 
at  leaft  equally  applies  to  Ireland  ; — I  there- 
fore take  the  liberty  of  fubmitting  to  my 
partners  in,  this  great  bufinefs,  the  plain 
maxims  of  honour  and,  hone  fly,  which  muft 
make  every  bufinefs  thrive  and  flourifh. 

I  fhall,  in  my  next,  trouble  you  with  a  few 
comments  on  fome  conflitutional  points, 
which  occur  in  Mr.  Willfon's  publick  ad- 
dreffes ;  and  which  defer ve  our  mod  ferious 
confideration. 

A  FREEHOLDER. 

Pel.  2gtb,  1776. 

LET- 


62  THE    FREEHOLDER, 


LETTER  VII. 

The  integrity  of  parliament  is  a  kind  of  palladium,  a 
tutelary  goddefs,  who  protects  ourjlate.  Whenjlit 
is  once  removed^  we  may  become  the  prey  of  any 
enemies*  BOLINGBROKE. 

1 N  Mr.  Willfon's  addrefs  to  you,  two 
points  ftand  remarkably  confpicuous ;  the 
independent  teft  which  he  propofes  to  take 
on  the  day  of  election  ;  and  the  plan  which 
he  fuggefts,  to  collect  the  fenfe  of  his  con- 
ftituents,  for  the  regulation  of  his  parlia- 
mentary conducl.  Thefe  are  eminent  fea- 
tures ;  and  demand  the  niceft  attention  of 
the  political  phyfiognomift  :  who  wifhes  to 
trace  the  true  lines  of  liberty,  and  to  afcer- 
tain  the  genuine  fon  of  the  conflitution. 

Parliamentary  tefls  were  always  proper. 
Even  in  the  purer  days  of  ancient  liberty, 
it  was  not  unwife  to  enfure,  by  additional 
obligations,  the  faithful nefs  of  the  fervant. 
It  could  never  be  thought  unreafonable,  or 

ungenerous, 


THE  FREEHOLDER.  63 

ungenerous,  to  require  from  the  agent,  at 
leaft  a  promife  that  he  would  aft  faithfully 
for  his  employer.  But  what  was  right  and 
reafonable  in  the  moft  virtuous  days,  mo- 
dern degeneracy  hath  made  abfolutely  ne- 
ceffary.  For  it  is  notorious,  that  not  only 
the  fubflance  of  patriotifm  is  melting  away, 
but  its  very  name  and  memory  are  falling 
into  obloquy  and  contempt.  This  noble 
quality,  the  fublimefl  of  moral  virtues,  as 
it  approaches  to  the  facred  nature  of  religion 
herfelf,  fo  mufl  it  expeft  to  (hare  her  abufe, 
and  fuffer  her  misfortune.  Hypocrites  are 
daily  detected,  who  do  not  blufh  to  profti- 
tute  the  facred  character  of  both.  *  Mif- 
creants  are  daily  heard,  who  deny  the  ex- 
iftence  of  either ;  and  who  do  not  tremble 
to  vilify  and  betray  their  God  and  their 
country.  In  this  fhamelefs  ftate  of  public 
profligacy,  it  is  necelfary  to  adopt  every 
caution,  to  impofe  every  fanclion,  to  infift 
on  every  poffible  fecurity,  for  the  fidelity 
of  the  reprefentative.  The  honed  candi- 
date for  any  truft,  will  never  object,  will 

rather 

*  Mefcreant,  or  Mefcroiant,  Fr.  an  unbeliever ;  a  holdcr 
of  a  falfe  faith. 


64  THE   FREEHOLDER. 

rather  anxioufly  defire,  to  undertake  in  the 
mod  folemn  manner,  for  the  honeft  execu- 
tion of  it.  For  fuch  an  undertaking  only 
anticipates,  in  a  profpeft  pleafing  to  the 
mind,  the  courfe  of  its  own  integrity.  The 
virtuous  man's  promife,  is  a  draught  on  the 
bank  of  truth.  He  makes  it  with  confi- 
dence; for  he  knows  it  will  be  paid  with 
honour.  Thofe  only  hefitate  to  offer  the 
fame  fund  as  a  fecurity,  who  are  confcious 
they  have  no  correfpondence  with  it. 

Thejentiment  of  Mr.  Willfon's  propofed 
left,  was  adverted  to  in  my  lafl  Letter.  You 
there  find  it  fanftified  by  the  higheft  au- 
thority this  country  can  boaft,  the  ever- 
memorable  Dean  of  St.  Patrick's :  who  makes 
it  the  ftrongeft  recommendatory  argument, 
throughout  his  whole  Paper ;  "  Advice  to 
the  freemen  of  Dublin,  in  the  choice  of  a 
reprefentative :"  a  title,  and  fubjeft,  precifely 
appofite  to  our  prefent  purpofe ! 

The  point  which  next  claims  our  atten- 
tion, is  the  method  propofed  for  collecting 
our  fentiments,  which  Mr.  Willfon  folemnly 
aflures  us,  "  (hall  regulate  his  parliamentary 
conduct."  As  to  the  mode,  I  do  not  pre- 

fume 


THE    FREEHOLDER.  ^ 

fume  on  its  fufficiency.  But  it  Teems  inge- 
nioufly  imagined,  and  is  certainly  moft  ho- 
neftly  fubmitted.  And  this  is  obvious ;  that 
if  any  plan,  more  effectual,  can  be  devifed 
by  the  wifdom  of  the  county,  the  fame  prin- 
ciple which  binds  him  to  your  fentiments, 
will  gladly  adopt  it. 

This  principle  of  "  obligation  to  the  fen- 
timents of  conftituents,"  now  deferves  our 
peculiar  confideration  and  applaufe,  when 
the  modern  arts  of  refiners  in  politicks,  arc 
attempting  to  fritter  it  away.  It  is  become 
the  fafhionable  boaft  of  our  mock-reprefen- 
tatives,  that  they  owe  no  fort  of  duty  or 
obedience  to  the  people.  "  My  confti- 
*f  tuents !"  fays  a  courtly  member  of  par- 
liament ;  "  what  are  they  ?  a  wretched  rab- 
"  ble  ;  ignorant  and  impudent,  to  prefume 
"  to  lay  their  commands  on  me: — A  vulgar 
"  herd ;  not  fit  to  converfe  with,,  much  lefs 
"  to  dictate  to,  Gentlemen  fo  much  their  fu- 
"  periours.  No :  I  dine  to-day  with  my 
"  Lord,  and  to-morrow  with  his  Excellen- 
(!  cy,  and  there  I  mall  receive  my  inftruc- 
"  tions."  —  And  there,  if  you  pleafe  let  us 
leave  him ;  for  I  am  fure  he  is  notfajor  us. 

VOL.  i.  F  We 


66  THE   FREEHOLDER. 

We  (hall  at  leafl  enjoy  Swift's  fatisfaclion ; 
who  comforted  himfelf  very  pleafantly  and 
very  wifely  too,  when  great  men  affected  airs 
of  haughtinefs :  "  Aye,"  fays  he ;  "  if  they 
"  make  me  keep  my  diftance,  I  make  them 
"  keep  theirs:1 

When  difficulties  occurred  in  the  councils 
of  Spain,  the  ftatefmen  ufed  to  fay,  the 
genius  of  old  Philip  the  fecond  mould  be 
confulted.  Happy  for  us,  my  countrymen ! 
that  we  have  a  wifer  guide  to  direct  us  in 
any  constitutional  inquiry — the  genius  of 
our  free  conflitution.  Let  us  confult  this 
infallible  oracle,  on  the  queftion  before  us. 
And  the  awful  voice  (hall  anfwer  in  hal- 
lowed founds  : — "  Government  was  confti- 
"  tuted  in  thefe  free  iflands  by  the  people, 
"  for  the  benefit  of  the  people.  To  effec- 
«8  tuate  this  facred  purpofe,  it  was  eftablifhed 
"  as  a  fundamental  maxim,  '  that  no  man 
"  (hould  be  governed  by  laws,  made  againfl 
"  his  content.'  This,  it  was  impoffible  for 
'•"  all  the  individuals  collectively  to  give. 
"  A  fek-ct  number,  therefore,  muft  be 
"  FREKI.Y  CHOSEN  ;  who  mall  collect  the 
'•  general  (eiiiiments,  and  fpeak  the  general 

"  voice : 


THE  FREEHOLDER.  67 

"  voice  ;  for  the  benefit  of  All,  with  the 
"  confent  of  All.  And  they  (hall  be  called 
"  reprcfentatwes  of  the  people ;  becaufe 
"  they  are  deputed  by  them  to  aft  for  them, 
"  as  if  themfelves  were  prefent. — Such  re- 
(:  prefentatives  therefore  can  aB  only  as  the 
"  creating  power  enjoins  :  or  they  tranfgrefs 
"  their  nature,  and  lofe  their  name. 

"  It  is  too  certain  that  this  beautiful  fyf- 
"  tern  will  be  deformed  by  human  frailty. 
"  Overweening  pride  will  fometimes  fwell 
"  above  the  voice  of  the  elector ;  and  too 
"  often  will  fordid  intereft  feduce,  contrary 
"  to  the  call  of  the  conftituent.  But  thefe 
"  are  treafons  to  the  conftitution.  And  he9 
"  and  he  only,  is  her  loyal  fon;  who  devotes 
"  himfelf  totally  to  her  interejlss  and  to  the 
t(  commands  of  the  people" — "  Nor  let  the 
*•"  arrogance  of  modern  pride  objecl  to  fuch 
"  obedience,  as  im poling  illiberal  fetters  on 
"  reprefentatives,  and  enflaving  them  to  the 
"  vulgar.  Let  them  learn,  that  to  enjoy 
"  legal  liberty,  they  muft  fubmit  to  legal 
"  reflraint.  Let  them  know,  that  a  real 
"  reprefentative,  afting^r  and  -with  the 
"  people ;  enjoys  a  fituation  the  moil  liberal 
r  2  "  and 


68  THE   FREEHOLDER. 

"  and  exalted,  of  which  humanity  is  capa- 
"  ble."      For,   let  them  be  taught,    Then- 
country  is  a  matter,  whofe  feruice  is  per  fed 
freedom. 

A  FREEHOLDER. 

March  i\thy  1776. 


LETTER  VIII. 


not  of  your  engagements  and  promifes  to  an- 
other. Your  promifes  wtrejins  of  inconjideration, 
at  bejl ;  and  you  are  bound  to  repent  and  annul 
them.  SWIFT. 

W  E  have  examined  the  leading  features 
of  Mr.  Willfon's  claim  ;  and  we  find  them 
flriftly  conftitutional.  Thefe  were  certainly 
more  than  fufficient  to  eftablifli  his  preten- 
fions  in  an  infinite  preference  to  thofe  of 
his  competitors.  But  it  is  a  juftice  due  to 
fuch  fingular  merit,  to  give  it  fingular  and 

particular 


THE  FREEHOLDER  69 

particular  attention.  For  the  more  we  ana- 
lyze the  fubjecl,  the  more  we  mall  admire 
its  fymmetry  and  perfection.  He  re/ides 
among/I  us.  An  indifpenfable  qualification : 
for  furely  the  refidence  of  a  reprefentative  in 
another  country,  is  the  grofleft  mockery  of 
the  conftituent.  Jurors  are,  by  law,  fum- 
moned  from  the  neighbourhood :  and  (hall  it 
be  endured,  that  the  infinitely  higher  trufl 
of  reprefentation,  whofe  very  name  implies 
ihepre/ence  of  the  agent,  (hall  be  burlefqued, 
annihilated  ? — not  only  turned  out  of  the 
neighbourhood,  but  banifhed  from  the  king- 
dom !  Law,  decency,  common  fenfe,  and 
common  juftice  forbid  it. — He  builds  his  ex- 
peftations  only  on  the  free  fupport  of  the  people. 
A  truly  conflitutional  foundation;  which 
will  not  fail  him ;  while  we  have  under- 
ftanding  to  value,  and  fpirit  to  defend,  our 
freeholds,  our  privileges,  and  our  liberties. — 
Slave  to  no  court-conneclion,  nor  family-in- 
fluence, "  he  hath  no  employment  under  the 
crown,  nor  is  likely  to  get  or  folicit  for 
any."  A  mod  powerful  recommendation 
to  your  preference :  for,  fuch  men,  the 
fame  great  authority  whom  I  have  quoted, 

aflures 


70  THE    FREEHOLDER. 

afTures  you,  "are  already  engaged  againft 
you." — Happily  gifted  by  nature,  liberally 
cultivated  by  education,  independent  in 
fpirit,  and  incorrupt  in  principle  ;  he  pof- 
fefles  that  rare  union  of  admirable  qualities, 
which  fully  conftitute  "  the  capacity "  of 
reprefenting  a  great  and  a  free  people. 

So  peculiarly  qualified,  fo  unanfwerably 
recommended  by  his  intrinfick  merit,  it 
may  be  wondered  that  fuch  repeated  argu- 
ments are  ufed  to  urge  it; — for  it  would 
feem  unnecefTary  to  inculcate  and  re-recom- 
mend to  your  choice,  the  man  who  is  in 
himfelf  fo  evidently  and  infinitely  preferable! 
Certainly,  my  friends,  it  were  fuperfluous ; 
if  you  be  confcious  of  your  fituation ; — if 
you  know,  that  your  voice  on  this  facred 
fubjeft,  is  and  mufl  be  free  ;  even  up  to  the 
moment  of  election  : — that  no  power  on 
earth  hath  a  right  to  anticipate  or  dire6l  it : 
— that  you  yourfelves  cannot  engage  it ; 
and  that  if  an  unwary  word  or  promife  have 
efcaped  you,  it  hath  no  force  whatever  ;  "  it 
is  a  fin  of  inconfideratior>,  and  you  are  bound 
to  repent  and  annul  it." 

This 


THE  FREEHOLDER.  71 

This  is  indifputably  true.  But  as  it  is  a 
point  not  fufficiently  underftood,  permit  me 
to  add  a  few  words  upon  it. 

My  pofition  is,  that  promifes,  rafhly  and 
indifcreetly  given,  the  performance  of  which 
violates  the  higheft  duties,  and  tends  to  the 
deepeft  mifchiefs,  impofe  not  the  leaft  obli- 
gation on  the  giver : — unlefs  it  be  an  obli- 
gation, to  "repent  and  annul  them." — The 
concurring  authorities  of  the  wifefl  writers 
and  mod  virtuous  men,  were  fufficient  to 
prove  the  point,  ad  vericundiam,  as  logicians 
fay,  if  it  did  not  carry  conviction  in  itfelf. 
Without  recurring,  therefore,  to  the  exprefs 
approbation  of  it  by  Cicero  or  Seneca,  by 
Lord  Bacon,  or  the  reverend  name  at  the 
head  of  my  paper  ;  let  us  fimply  confider 
the  nature  of  a  promife. 

A  promife  is  a  voluntary  declaration  of  a 
fettled  intention  ;  and  always  implies  fome 
real  benefit  to  be  conferred  on  the  perfon 
to  whom  it  is  made.  If  any  of  thefe  ingre- 
dients be  wanting,  there  is  no  promife ;  and 
therefore  no  obligation.  For  inftance :  if 
involuntarily  I  am  forced  to  make  a  decla- 
ration to  another,  it  does  not  bind  me;  for 

it 


72  THE    FREEHOLDER. 

it  is  not  mine  :  I  am  not  bound  to  conform 
to  words,  which  a  ruffian's  piftol  at  my 
bread,  forces  from  my  mouth  ;  for  they  are 
his  words  ;  and  come  to  me  only  through 
the  medium  of  his  piftol ;  which,  I  prefume, 
does  not  fan&ify  them.  Again  :  the  inten- 
tion muft  be  fettled  and  rational.  For,  if  I 
fuddenly  throw  out  abfurd  declarations,  it  is 
my  duty  to  myfelf,  as  a  rational  being,  to 
rectify  them.  The  wild  gufts  of  madnefs  or 
intoxication,  or  the  heedlefs  folly  of  thought- 
lefs  precipitance,  inftitute  no  claim  on  our 
fobered  mind.  Reafon  will  refume  her  of- 
fice, and  vindicate  her  right  to  the  fortrefs, 
which  pafiion  or  weaknefs  had  taken  by 
furprize.  Laftly,  fome  real  benefit  is  to  be 
conferred ;  or  the  obligation  ceafes.  If  I 
have  undertaken  to  a  man  in  a  fever,  to  feed 
his  third  with  fpirituous  liquors ;  am  I, 
therefore,  obliged  to  murder  the  delirious 
wretch  ? 

Let  us  apply  tliefe  obfervations  to  the 
promifes,  as  they  are  called,  of  votes  at  elec- 
tions. Are  they  always  entirely  voluntary? 
Are  they  always  fettled,  well-weighed  inten- 
tions ? — founded  on  a  thorough  difcuflion  of 

the 


THE  FREEHOLDER.  73 

the  merits  of  the  candidates,  and  a  convic- 
tion that  no  worthier  can  poflibly  arife? 
Do  they  always  confer  real,  genuine  advan- 
tage, on  all  candidates  who  folicit  them  ? 
Or  do  they  not  fometimes  feed  the  fever  of 
corruption ;  and,  in  the  general  calamity  of 
the  conftitution,  deftroy  the  very  men, 
whofe  intemperate  delirium  fo  greedily  quaffs 
the  poifon  ? 

Remember,  alfo,  my  friends !  that  in  the 
moment  of  election,  you  ftand  forth  the 
immediate  guardians  of  your  country.  Your 
facred  duty  to  her,  our  univerfal  parent,  is 
a  free,  unbiafTed,  difengaged  'exertion  of 
your  right  of  fuffrage.  To  her  you  owe 
an  original,  unalienable,  eternal  duty.  You 
are  therefore  abfolutely,  and  unconditionally, 
free. — Except  in  the  fenfe,  in  which  omni- 
potence itfelf  is  limited — by  wifdom  and 
juftice. 

Acl  only  as  thofe  guides  direcl,  and  fulfil 
your  duty  to  your  country  and  your  pof- 
terity. 

A  FREEHOLDER. 

March  9/&,  1776, 

LET- 


74  THE  FREEHOLDER. 


LETTER  IX. 

Hail,  Independence^  hail  f  Heaven's  next  beft  gift 
¥0  that  of  liffy  and  an  immortal  foul. 
Ihe  Ift  of  life  !  which  to  the  banquet  high 
Andfoler  meal  gives  tafte;  to  the  bow'd  roof 
fair-dream'd  repofe>  and  to  the  cottage  charms. 

THOMSON, 


Great  and  a  wife  king  of  Macedon 
ordered  his  attendants  daily  to  repeat  to  him 
this  falutary  memento  ;  "  Philip,  thou  art  a 
man."  He  knew  the  frailty  of  his  nature; 
and  thought  it  expedient  to  guard  againft 
its  errors,  by  being  thus  conftantly  reminded 
into  the  duties  of  humanity.  Let  us  not 
blufh  to  imitate  fo  refpeftable  an  example. 
Let  us  rather  triumph  in  furpamng  it  ;  and 
daily,  and  hourly,  inculcate  to  each  other, 
the  fuperiour  dignity  and  duty  of  our  fitua- 
tion:  —  Friends/  YE  ARE  FREEMEN. 

It  was  beautifully  faid  by  the  Roman  ora- 
tor and  philofopher,  "  Virtue  is  in  herfelf  fo 

lovely, 


THE  FREEHOLDER.  75 

lovely,  that  to  be  loved,  (he  needs  only  to 
be  feen."     Her  native,  genuine  charms,  he 
reprefents   as  irrefiftible ;  and  which  could 
not  fail  of  univerfal  adoration,  only  if  men 
would   open   their   eyes   and    behold   her. 
Such  alfo,   is  the   intrinfick  beauty  of  li- 
berty ;    rivalling,  as  (he  does,  or  perhaps 
even  furpaffing  in  lovelinefs,  her  lovely  fitter. 
For    Liberty   is    the   refinement  of  Virtue. 
The  ftrong  point  of  preference  has  been  be- 
fore obferved ;  that  as  virtue  is  effential  to 
the  true  happinefs  of  life,  fo  liberty  is  ne- 
ceflary  to    the  happinefs  of  virtue.     And 
the    reafon    is     convincing.       For    liberty 
is  founded  in,  and  refults  from,  all  the  good 
and  great  qualities  united.     Her  nature  muft 
therefore  be  fuperlatively  noble ;   and,  to 
recur  to  Cicero's  allufion,,  the  pofleflion  of 
her  charms  muft  be  the  higher!  happinefs. 

I  hope  it  is  unneceflary  here  to  difclaim 
the  excefs,  or  the  abufe  of  this  glorious 
principle.  RATIONAL,  LEGAL  LIBERTY, 

AND  ONLY  THAT,  IS  INTENDED  TO  BE 
PRAISED;  WHICH  DIFFERS  AS  ESSEN- 
TIALLY FROM  THE  RUDE  RIOT  OF  LI- 
CENTIOUSNESS, AS  WISDOM  IS  DIS- 
TINCT FROM  MADNESS,  OR  AS  REASON 

EXCELS 


76  THE  FREEHOLDER. 

EXCELS  BRUTALITY.  The  admirable 
Milton  has  well  diitinguimed,  where  he  in- 
veighs againft  the  hypocrites  of  this  virtue 
in  the  extreme.  As  the  paflage  well  expofes 
the  falfe  pretenfions  to  it,  and  in  the  fame 
proportion  extols  the  truth,  permit  me  to 
clofe  thefe  obfervations  with  it. 

te  They  bawl  for  freedom  in  their  fenfelefs 

"  mood, 
"  Yet  quarrel  with  the  hand   that  makes 

"  them  free : 

"  Licenfe  they  mean,  when  they  cry  Liberty ; 
"  For,  who  loves  that,  mujl  Jlrjl  be  wife  and 

good" 

That  genuine  liberty,  in  its  true  temper- 
ate perfection,  is  the  fcope  of  our  happy 
conftitution ;— that  Parliaments,  fairly  repre- 
fenting  the  people,  are  the  only  effectual 
guardians  of  this  ineftimable  object ; — that 
publick  integrity  and  publick  ability  are 
neceffary  to  execute  the  truft  of  reprefenta- 
tiori  ; — and  above  all,  that  abfolute  freedom 
of  election  is  neceffary  to  its  very  being ; — • 
that,  therefore,  abfentees  from  the  country, 
nominees  of  Lords,  and  devoted  to  lordly 

influence 


THE  FREEHOLDER.  77 

influence  and  court-corruptions,  are  un- 
conftitutional  candidates  : — are  the  leading 
points,  which  have  been  fubmitted  to  you 
in  thefe  Letters.  I  will  not  infult  your 
understanding,  or  your  honefty,  fo  far  as 
to  doubt  that  thefe  pofitions  required  my 
feeble  aid  to  prove  them.  They  are  felf- 
evident  truths  ;  and,  to  be  admitted,  need 
only  to  be  feen.  Let  me  then  only  claim 
the  humble  mechanical  merit  of  having  dif- 
played  them  to  your  view  : — your  own  fym- 
pathies  of  virtue  have  the  praife  of  inftantly 
feeling  their  full  force ;  and,  in  effect,  giving 
them  due  attention. 

Agreeing  thus  in  the  nature  of  thefe  grand 
principles,  a  very  important  consideration 
remains  for  us,  as  to  the  mode  of  giving 
them  due  and  effective  operation.  And  I 
beg  the  particular  attention  of  my  coun* 
trymen  to  one  very  material  and  effential 
point. 

Three  candidates  now  folicit  our  fuffrages. 
Two  of  them  we  fee  are  profcribed,  by 
every  conftitutional  confideration.  The  third, 
we  with  pleafure  adopt,  as  recommended 
to  our  choice  in  the  fame  powerful  pro- 
portion. 


78  THE  FREEHOLDER. 

portion.  The  friends,  therefore,  of  inde* 
pendence,  and  of  their  country,  will  cer- 
tainly give  their  fupport  to  Mr.  Willfon.— 
But,  let  them  remember  that  the  only  method 
to  do  fo  effectually,  is  to  withhold  all  pofli- 
ble  afliftance  from  the  others,  his  unconfti- 
tutional  antagonifls.  The  danger  is,  that 
\yell-meaning  electors  might  collaterally  and 
unintentionally  deftroy  the  effect  of  their 
firft  fuffrage,  and  their  honeft  wifhes.  For 
inftance  ;  a  voter  thoroughly  confcious,  as 
he  muft  be,  of  the  infinite  preference  of 
Mr.  Willfon's  claims,  refolves  to  vote  for 
him.  He  does  fo;  and  fo  far  fulfils  his 
duty  to  his  country. — -But,  he  has  a  fecond 
vote  to  give  ?  And  for  this  he  is  folicited 
by  acquaintances,  by  friends,  by  landlords, 
&c.  £c. — in  favour  of  one  of  our  honourable 
candidates. — "  Well,"  thinks  he,  "  I  have 
t%  given  one  vote  to  fatisfy  my  confcience ; — 
"  why  mould  I  not  give  the  other  to  fatisfy  a 
<?  friend  ? — I  wifh  Mr.  Willfon  fuccefs  with 
"  all  my  heart  ;  and  I  gave  him  my  firft 
'•"  vote  ;  but  as  I  have  a  fecond,  I  mutt  give 
"  it : — fo  you  (hall  have  it,  Sir." — But  the 
misfortune  is,  that  this  fecond  vote  weighs 

juft 


THE  FREEHOLDER.  79 

juft  as  heavy  as  the  firft ;  and  thrown  into 
the  oppofite  fcale  of  the  adverfary,  totally 
annihilates  the  intended  friendly  effect  of  the 
preference  given.  So  that  at  bed  it  reduces 
the  voter  to  a  ftate  of  non-entity.  But  it 
may,  it  muft,  be  worfe.  He  will  become 
the  inftrument  of  the  mifchief  his  heart  ab- 
hors. For  if  the  independent  wifh  be  thus 
fruflrated  by  the  annihilation  of  the  inde- 
pendent vote,  the  confederated  enemy  muft 
prevail.  Their  coalition  and  mutual  fup- 
port  are  certain ;  and  are  the  very  grievance 
we  complained  of.  We  do  not  now  in- 
quire whether  the  trained  bands,  who  march 
in  fupport  of  this  lordly  league,  be  allies  or 
mercenaries  in  the  caufe.  But  of  this  we 
may  be  fure ;  that  they  will  march  to  an 
inglorious  victory  over  their  country,  unlefs 
her  independent  fons  firmly  and  effectually 
unite  in  her  defence. 

I  hope  it  is  obvious,  that  the  only  method 
of  doing  fo,  is  to  refolve  either  on  giving  a 
fmgle  vote  to  Mr.  Willfon,  or  to  felecl  an- 
other gentleman  of  constitutional  principles 
and  independent  fpirit,  on  whom  to  beftow 
our  iecond  voice.  Let  us  be  deeply  im- 

preffed 


So  THE   FREEHOLDER. 

prefled  with  the  neceflity  of  confining  our 
fupport  to  conftitutional  merit. — Let  us 
anxioufly  remember,  that  the  duty  of  a  free- 
holder as  powerfully  precludes  him  from 
voting  for  an  unworthy  candidate,  as  it 
urges  him  to  the  choice  of  a  proper  one. 

I  (hall  trouble  you  with  perhaps  only  an- 
other letter ;  in  which  I  propofe  to  fubmit 
to  your  confideration  a  few  hints  relative  to 
the  teft,  by  which  we  are  to  try  our  candi- 
dates. 

A  FREEHOLDER. 

March  13^,  1776. 


LETTER 


THE   FREEHOLDER.  8l 


LETTER  X. 

A  Patriot  is  always  ready  to  countenance  the  jujl 
claims,  and  animate  the  reafonalle  hopes,  of  the 
People.  He  reminds  them  frequently  of  their 
rights;  and  Jlimulates  them  to  refenf  encroach- 
ments, and  tO  MULTIPLY  SECURITIES. 

JOHNSON. 

X  H  E  latter  branch  of  this  patriotick 
duty  is  the  only  one  which  remains  for  our 
attention.  My  countrymen  and  fellow- 
freeholders  are  fufficiently  apprized  of  their 
rights;  and,  convinced  that  abfolute  free- 
dom of  election  is  the  eflence  of  them  all, 
they  refent  and  will  repel  all  attempted 
encroachments  on  it.  Confiding,  therefore, 
in  your  virtue  to  value  your  liberties,  and 
your  fpirit  to  fupport  them,  permit  me  to 
appeal  to  your  underftanding,  for  the  mod 
effectual  method  to  multiply  fecurities  in 
their  defence. 

In  all  negociations  where  truft  is  repofed, 

the  leading   and   principal   fecurity    is  the 

VOL.  i,  c  character 


82'  THE  FREEHOLDER. 

character  of  the  perfon  trufted.  This  is 
difcovered,  either  by  reference  to  his  conduft 
in  fimilar  fituations,  or  by  a  nice  fcrutiny 
into  his  principles,  whether  they  be  fuch  as 
juflify  a  future  confidence:  and  inafmuch 
as  experience  is  fuperiour  to  experiment, 
the  former  ground  of  confidence  is  more 
certain.  But  if  both  unite  in  his  favour, 
we  gladly  receive  him  into  ours ;  and  con- 
fer that  confidence  which  his  tried  integrity 
has  earned,  and  his  honourable  principles 
deferve :  and  thefe  confpiring  proofs  of  cka- 
r after  form  no  mean  fecurity  to  thofe,  who 
feel  in  their  own  breafls  the  force  of  virtue, 
and  entertain  a  fympathy  of  honour. 

Hut  as  human  imperfection  for  ever  for- 
bids an  abfolute  certainty  in  human  virtue, 
and  as  the  folicitude  for  an  object  mould  ever 
be  in  proportion  to  its  importance,  it  is  our 
duly  anxioufty  to  afcertain,  as  far  as  is  pof- 
fible,  the  prefent  merits  and  future  virtue 
of  our  candidates  for  the  truft  of  reprefenta- 
uon;  to  multiply  fecurities,  and  "  to  make 
afllirance  double  fure."  - 

One  of  the  gentlemen  who  fubmit  them- 
felves  to  our  choice,  more  than  meets  us  in 

this 


THE   FREEHOLDER.  83 

this  idea.  With  the  prompt  alacrity  of 
publick  virtue,  he  fteps  forward  ;  and  by 
the  propofal  of  a  folemn  previous  engage- 
ment, for  the  afcertainment  of  his  future 
conduct,  he  anticipates  our  wifhes  ;  and 
gives,  before  we  a(k,  the  additional  multi- 
plied fecurity.  This  meafure  has  been  dif- 
cufled  in  a  former  Letter ;  and  its  propriety 
eftablifhed,  as  far  as  relates  to  parliamentary 
conduct,  to  enfure  the  virtue  of  reprefenta- 
tives :  let  us  now  examine  whether  it  be  not 
equally  expedient  in  a  preliminary  point  of 
view,  to  difcover  the  principles  and  difcri- 
minate  the  merits  of  candidates. 

The  name,  by  which  this  meafure  is 
generally  known,  leads  us  to  its  nature  and 
its  ufe.  It  is  called  a  T  E  s  T  ; — a  criterion ; — 
a  touchftone  ;  by  which  we  may  know,  be- 
fore we  approve  ;  and  try,  before  we  truft. 
When  a  candidate  propofes  his  fervices  to 
electors,  it  furely  is  not  very  unnatural  nor 
unwife  in  them  to  examine  into  his  princi- 
ples, to  fettle  the  import  of  the  covenant 
between  them,  and  to  afcertain  the  fervices 
he  is  to  perform.  Without  a  precaution  of 
this  fort,  an  inlet  is  given  to  the  mod  pre- 
G  2  pofterous 


84  THE    FREEHOLDER. 

poflerous  and  abfurd  confufion.  A  gentle- 
man may  be  fent  to  parliament,  pofleffing 
perhaps  the  beft  intentions  in  the  world  ; 
for,  to  flate  the  argument  in  the  faired 
manner,  we  will  fuppofe  him  at  leaft  ethi- 
cally right.  But  unfortunately  thefe  inten- 
tions and  fentiments  are  not  the  intentions 
and  fentiments  of  his  conftituents.  They 
think  and  wifh,  in  a  manner  diametrically 
oppofite  to  the  man  whom  they  have  chofen 
to  exprefs  their  thoughts,  and  effect  their 
wifhes :  and  the  mod  ridiculous  contradic- 
tion enfues ;  their  agent  a6ts  againfl  them, — 
their  reprefentative  mifreprefents  them. 

It  is  obvious  that  this  confufion,  contra- 
diction, and  mifchief  might  be  decifively 
prevented,  by  a  full  and  conftitutional  teft : 
a  teft  which  might  fufficiently  difcriminate 
the  publick  principles  of  candidates  ;  and, 
in  confequence,  eftablim  an  additional  fecu- 
rity  of  their  virtue  as  reprefentatives. 

When  I  fpeak  of  a  full  and  conftitutional 
teft,  you  perceive  that  I  mean  one  more 
comprehenfive,  and  more  effectual  for  the 
above-mentioned  purpofes,  than  that  which 
has  been  propofed  to  your  approbation  by 

Mr. 


THE  FREEHOLDER.  85 

Mr.  Willfon.     As  far  as  his  goes,  it  is  excel- 
lent in  its  fan6iion  ;  and,  in  the  fulled  de- 
gree, difmterefted  in  principle  :  and  for  him 
in  particular,    the  freeholders  to  whom  he 
fubmits  it,   would  certainly  think  it  fuper- 
fluous  to  infert  additional  matter.     But   I 
conceive  it  will  be  found  infufficient  to  cover 
the  general  extent  of  this  great  queftion  ;  or 
to  fecure  the   particular  purpofes,  which  it 
certainly  is  his  and  every  freeman's  wifh  to 
promote.     Effectually  to  do  fo,  it  will  be 
neceffary  to  enter  more  into  the  detail ;  to 
fpecify   fome  leading  particular  points    to 
the  candidate,-r-fome  indifpenfable  articles 
of  political  faith,  to  which  he  mud  conform, 
before  we  admit  him  to  our  political  com- 
munion ;  or   at  lead,  before  we  confer  on 
him  its  honours  and  dignities. 

A  FREEHOLDER. 

March  zyth,  1776. 


LETTER 


86  THE  FREEHOLDER. 


LETTER  XI. 

Rcfolved,    That  the  engagement  now  read,  be  de- 
manded on  the  part  of  the  Livery  of  London,  to  be 
figned   by  every  candidate  -who  /hall  be  put  in 
nomination  to  reprefent  this  city  in  the  enfuing 
Parliament. 

ELECTORS  OF  LONDON,  IN  GUILDHALL 

ASSEMBLED,  OB.  ^d,   1774. 

1  Have  not  prefumed  to  fubmit,  much  lefs 
to  urge  to  you,  any  opinions  which  are  not 
fan&ified  by  the  greateft  authorities.  The 
principles  of  the  conftitution,  as  they  have 
been  defcribed  in  thefe  Letters,  are  incul- 
cated by  the  greateft  writers.  The  mode  of 
giving  them  effeft,  we  fee,  at  the  head  of 
my  paper,  eftablifhed  by  the  wifeft  prac- 
tice. 

The  city  of  London  hath  ever  flood  fore- 
mofl  in  the  caufe  of  freedom.  From  the 
days  of  Magna  Charta,  when  her  Mayor 
was  the  firft  to  fix  that  glorious  land-mark 
of  our  liberties ;  to  eftablifh  on  a  rock  the 

original 


THE  FREEHOLDER.  87 

original  rights  of  the  people ;  to  controul, 
with  a  patriot-hand,  the  tyranny  of  kings ; 
and  for  ever  to  teach  them  this  awful  truth, 
that  as  the  foundation  of  their  throne  is  laid 
in  the  confent  and  for  the  benefit,  fo  its 
fecurity  can  only  be  found  in  the  affe6tion, 
of  their  fubjecls  : — from  that  memorable 
period  of  triumphant  patriotifrn  to  the  pre- 
fent  hour,  alas  not  equally  triumphant! — • 
in  the  various  courfe  of  the  molt  trying  and 
important  fituations,  hiftory  confpires  to 
prove,  what  is  evident,  exclufive  of  hiftory, 
— that  the  city  of  London  is  jultly  raifed  to 
her  prefent  imperial  fummit  by  the  virtues, 
as  well  as  the  valour,  of  her  citizens  ; — that 
fhe  is  not  more  eminent  for  wealth  than  for 
wifdom,  not  more  renowned  for  power  than 
for  juftice, — defervedly  the  metropolis  of 
extended  empire,  becaufe  confefledly  the 
centre  of  eftablifhed  liberty.  . 

Infpired  by  fuch  an  example,  (hall  we 
not  imitate  its  wifdom,  and  partake  its  fuc- 
cefs?  Flowing  from  fuch  a  facred  fource, 
fhall  we  not  revere  the  hallowed  dreams  ; 
and  with  a  pious  zeal  purify  them  from  the 
venal  filth  and  rubbifli,  with  which  the  facri- 
2  legious 


88  THE   FREEHOLDER. 

legions  invaders  endeavour  to  pollute  and 
pervert  them  ? 

To  effect  this  falutary  purpofe,  and  re- 
ftore  the  conftitution  to  its  original  purity, 
it  feemed  good  to  the  great  authority  which 
I  have  quoted,  to  propofe  to  their  candi- 
dates a  certain  folemn  engagement,  fpeci- 
fying  to  them  many  important  conflitutional 
meafures,  the  fignature  and  adoption  of 
which  (hould  be  an  indifpenfable  prelimi- 
nary to  their  election.  And  the  efficacy  of 
the  meafure  has  been  amply  approved  in  the 
virtue  of  their  reprefentatives.  The  elec- 
tors of  that  great  city  are  really  reprefented ; 
arid  have,  as  all  electors  ought  to  have,  a 
voice  in  legiflation.  They  are  not  mocked 
with  an  abfent  representative,  nor  infulted 
with  a  wooden  one.  No  Lords  interfere  to 
rob  them  of  their  rights,  by  the  nomination 
of  one,  whofe  abfence  precludes  him  from 
the  poffibility  of  acting  for  them,  though 
his  connections  fhould  give  him  leave ;  or 
by  the  imposition  of  another,  whofe  fervile 
fituation  for  ever  difqualifies  him,  even  if 
his  natural  difabilities  were  removed.  They 
a.ve  neither  cheated  nor  intimidated  out  of 

their 


THE    FREEHOLDER.  O£ 

their  privileges :  but,  (landing  on  the  firm 
ground  of  ele&ion -independence,  they  fend 
their  chofen  delegates,  tried  by  the  teft,  and 
approved  by  their  judgment,  to  reprefent 
them  in  parliament,  honourably,  obediently, 
faithfully,  and  effe&ually ;  exhibiting  to 
thefe  kingdoms  an  eminent  example  of  the 
good  policy  of  virtue;  the  general  adoption 
of  which  muft,  in  the  words  of  their  noble 
ftatefman  and  orator,  "fix  us  fecurely  on 
the  fummits  of  freedom  and  profperity." 

Permit  me  now  to  offer  to  your  candid 
and  ferious  judgment,  for  your  approbation, 
improvement,  or  alteration,  or  whatever 
may  feem  good  to  you,  the  following  fketch 
of  a  teft  for  our  candidates  ;  as  containing 
the  grand  defiderata  of  our  conftitution. 

"  I  A.  B.  do  moft  folemnly  promiie  and 
engage  myfelf  to  my  conftituents,  if  I  (hall 
have  the  honour  of  being  chofen  to  repre^ 
fent  this  county  in  parliament,  that  J  will 
endeavour  to  the  utmoft  of  my  power,  to 
promote  and  procure,  and  having  procured, 
to  maintain  and  continue,  a6ts  of  the  legi- 
flature, 

"  For 


90  THE   FREEHOLDER. 

<e  For  eftablifhing  a  more  fair  and  equal 
reprefentation  of  the  people  in  parliament. 

"  For  vindicating  all  the  legal  rights  of 
the  people;  efpecially  their  grand  privi- 
lege, abfolute  freedom  of  election. 

"  For  fubjefting  each  candidate  for  a  feat 
in  parliament  to  an  oath  againft  his  having 
ufed  bribery,  or  any  other  illegal  or  uncon- 
ftitutional  means  of  gaining  his  election. 

"  For  excluding  penfioners  from  fitting 
in  the  Houfe  of  Commons ;  and  for  reducing 
the  number  of  placemen  there,  as  much 
as  is  confident  with  the  public  fervice. 

"  For  explaining  the  many  revenue  acls, 
which  intend  the  great  parts  of  the  revenue 
for  the  fervice  of  the  kingdom  ;  which  parts 
of  the  revenue  it  is  therefore  illegal  to 
charge  with  penfions;  and  for  diftinguifli- 
ing  them  from  thofe  a6ts,  whereby  the  King 
is  inve'fted  with  a  private  property  in  a  few 
particulars :  in  order  to  reduce  the  pecu- 
niary power  of  the  crown  within  law ;  and 
conform  it  to  liberty. 

"  For  explaining,  amending,  or  if  it  (hall 
be  found  neceffary  to  the  freedom  of  the 

country. 


THE   FREEHOLDER.  gi 

country,  for  repealing  the  law  of  Henry 
the  yth,  commonly  called  Poyning's  law  *  ; 
in  order  to  vindicate  Ireland  from  the  hard- 
fhips  (he  fuftains  under  the  mifconftrucliou 
and  oppreflion  of  that  law,  obliging  her  as 
is  pretended,  to  tranfmit,  through  the  uncon- 
ftitutional  medium  of  the  privy-council,  all 
her  bills  to  England,  for  the  previous  appro- 
bation or  alteration,  or  rejection  of  the  King 
in  council  there,  and  originating  many  of  her 
laws  in  the  illegal  fource  of  that  privy- 
council, — thereby  depriving  her  of  her  rights 
as  a  free  country,  and  fubjugating  her  to  the 
arbitrary  caprice  and  corruption  of  powers 
unknown  to  the  conftitution,  Lord  Lieu- 
tenants, Secretaries,  Privy  Councils,  and 
Englifh  Attorney  Generals. 

"  I  do  alfo  mod  folemnly  promife  not  to 
accept  from  the  crown,  or  its  minifters, 
during  the  exiftence  of  the  enfuing  parlia- 
ment, nor  as  long  as  I  mall  have  the  honour 
of  reprefenting  this  county,  place,  penfion, 
contract,  title,  gratuity,  or  emolument  of  any 
kind,  nor  in  any  mode  whatfoever :  unlefs 
the  extraordinary  exigence  of  publick  affairs 

*  This  law,  as  is  well  known,  vas  repealed,  by  the 
A£l  of  Settlement  in  1782. 

mould 


£2  THE  FREEHOLDER. 

fhould  render  it  neceffary  for  his  Majefly  to 
call  for  the  general  afliftance  of  his  fubjefts 
in  ajuft  caufe;  which  juflice,  however,  and 
exigence,  I  (hould  entirely  fubmit  to  my 
conftituents  to  determine  :  For, 

"  I  do  further  promife,  and  bind  myfelf 
to  my  conftituents,  by  every  afiurance  that 
a  man  of  honour  can  give  or  expect,  that 
I  (hall  at  all  times  and  all  occafions  exaftly 
purfue  fuch  inftruftions  as  they  fhall  think 
proper  to  give  me." 

Is  there  an  idea  in  this  teft,  to  which  a 
conftkutional  candidate  can  take  exception? 
None.  I  afiert,  not  one.  Is  the  mode  of 
taking  it  objeclionable  ?  Certainly  not.  For 
it  is  the  mildeft,  and  moft  gentle.  We  only 
require  our  candidates  to  fign  it.  Preferved 
in  our  county  records,  their  fignature  fhall 
be  fufBcient.  Litera  fcripta  manet.  We 
will  not  prefs  them  to  fwear.  We  need  not, 
with  the  elegant  Otway,  "  violate  their  deli- 
cacy  by  fo  rude  a  bond." 

"  No,  not  an  oath — according  to  Brutus, 
fpeaking  through  Shakefpeare— * 

"  If  that  the  fate  of  men—* 

"  The  fufferance  of  our  fouls,  the  times  abufe ; 
"  If  thefe  be  motives  weak-break  off  betimes." 

-But 


THE   FREEHOLDER.  93 

— But  I  have  exceeded  my  ufual  limits  :  and 
will  therefore  defer  a  few  further  thoughts 
as  to  the  mode  of  the  county's  adoption  of 
this,  or  any  other  teft,  till  my  next,  which 
(hall  be  my  concluding  letter. 

A  FREEHOLDER. 

April  fflb,  1776. 

, 


LETTER  XII. 

Our  friends  are  dear  to  us  ;  our  relations  are  dear  ; 
dear  are  our  families,  our  parents,  and  our  chil- 
dren ;  but  all  thefe  affeclions,  thefe  tender  chari- 
ties, are  comprehended  in  the  fuperlative  love  we 
owe  to  our  country;  for  the  advantage  of  which, 
what  good  man  would  hefitate  to  die?  CICERO. 

jDEFORE  we  proceed  to  the  mode  of 
publickly  adopting  a  teft,  it  may  be  necef- 
fary  to  premife  a  few  words  in  explanation 

of 


94  THE   FREEHOLDER. 

of  fome  parts  of  that,  which  I  took  the 
liberty  of  propofing,  not  fo  much  to  your 
adoption  as  your  confideration. — Penfioris 
and  places,  in  a  constitutional  light,  are 
evils  of  great  magnitude.  For  they  attach 
a  great  interefl  to  the  crown,  pjepondera- 
ting  already,  from  other  caufes,  againfl  the 
weight  of  the  commons.  But  fome  evils 
are  neceffajy,  in  the  political,  as  well  as  the 
natural,  fyftem.  And  we  mud  learn  to  bear 
our  constitution  with  its  natural  and  necef- 
fary  infirmities.  Of  this  defcription  are 
placemen  in  the  Houfe  of  Commons ;  with- 
out a  certain  number  of  whom,  to  open 
and  explain  the  publick  accounts,  and  to 
ftate  the  neceflities  of  publick  fervice,  the 
bufmefs  of  the  Houfe  muft  ftagnate,  and 
the  neceffary  intercourfe  be  interrupted  be- 
tween the  executive  and  the  legiflative. 
Pensioners,  on  the  other  hand,  haVe  no 
bufinefs  there.  Thofe  publick  beggars  of 
the  ftate  are  at  leaft  as  unqualified  to  fit 
in  parliament,  as  the  private  beggars  of  the 
flreet.  Let  them  then  enjoy  their  alms, 
without  the  ambition  or  abfurdity  of  being 
the  legiflators  of  the  kingdom.  But  a  cer- 
tain 


THE   FREEHOLDER.  95 

tain  number  of  men,  with  the  knowledge, 
and  the  reponfibility  too,  of  office,  are  ne- 
ceffary  to  wife  and  effective  legiflation.  In 
the  teft  therefore,  a  limitation  of  placemen, 
not  an  exclufion,  was  ftipulated ;  fanftified 
however  by  the  controul  of  the  conftitu- 
ents,  as  to  the  neceflity  and  degree  of  that 
limitation,  and  the  propriety  of  the  repre- 
tentative  ever  becoming  fo., 

Signature  of  the  teft  was  propofed,  in- 
ftead  of  an  oath  ;  as  well  from  the  great 
authority  there  cited,  and  a  confidence  that 
fuch  an  a6l  would  be  fufficiently  obligatory ; 
as  from  a  wifh  to  difarm  every  poflible  ob- 
jection to  the  meafure,  which  fome  too 
fcrupulous  reafoners  might  advance.  There 
is  a  fort  of  ftrained  nicety,  a  prudery  in 
confcience  and  religion,  which  objects  to 
the  ufe  of  oa"ths,  unlefs  particularly  pre- 
fcribed  and  authorized.  If  however  any 
eonftituents  think  that  fanftion  necefTary, 
the  candidate  who  mail  adopt  it  muft  with 
them  have  additional  merit. 

To  agree  on  tfre  propriety  of  this  great, 
publick  meafure,  and  to  eftablifli  it  both  in 
principle  and  form,  the  moft  publick  con- 

fultation 


96  THE   FREEHOLDER. 

fultation  and  concurrence  are  fequifite, 
Publick  meetings  are  held  for  this  purpofe  ; 
announced  to  the  county  by  the  meriff,  on 
the  application  of  a  fufficient  number  of 
freeholders.  It  then  becomes  his  duty  to 
convene  them  in  the  mod  convenient  place* 
Our  prefent  worthy  {heriff,  it  is  fuppofed, 
would  not  hefitate  in  advancing  any  mea- 
fure  for  the  publick  advantage ;  which  a 
county-meeting,  preparatory  to  an  election, 
has  been  always  confidered  to  be ;  and  is 
mod  refpe&ably  recommended  to  this  coun- 
try, by  the  uniform  practice  of  all  the  free 
counties  in  England.  But  though  a  {heriff 
refufe  his  concurrence,  the  meafure  pro- 
ceeds. Bodies  of  freeholders  advertife ;  and 
call  on  their  brother-electors  to  meet,  to 
deliberate,  to  decide, — on  the  moft  import- 
ant fubjecl  which  can  occur  to  them.  A 
fheriff  is  called  upon,  only  as  the  principal 
officer  of  the  county ;  and  the  natural  chan- 
nel through  which  publick  notice  fnould  be 
conveyed  to  them.  But  if  that  channel 
be  {lopped  up,  the  publick  defire  will  find 
a  vent, — will  make  itfelf  a  way.  And,  I 
have  heard,  that  in  fuch  cafes  its  prbgrefs 

is 


THE  FREEHOLDER.  97 

is  more  impetuous  and  irrefiftible.  Strength- 
ened by  oppofition,  the  increafmg  ftream  of 
patriotifm  fwells  into  a  victorious  torrent, 
and  bears  down  or  overflows  every  obftacle 
that  endeavours  to  withstand  it. 

The  neceflity  of  this  meafure,  its  wifdom, 
a  form  in  which  it  may  be  drawn  up,  and 
the  method  for  its  county  adoption,  have 
been  fubmitted  to  you.  It  is  yours  to  adopt 
that  form,  or  a  better  one ;  and  to  purfue 
the  moft  effectual  method  to  give  it  publick 
fanftion.  The  fubjecl;  is  of  the  deepeft  na- 
ture, and  the  moft  ferious  tendency.  It 
requires  all  our  attention  to  fathom  it;  and 
calls  for  all  our  fpirit  to  do  it  juftice.  Let 
me  conjure  you,  to  lay  it  to  your  hearts  with 
the  cordiality  it  deferves. 

I  much  apprehend  that  the  detached  ap- 
pearance of  thefe  Letters,  their  interrup- 
tion and  imperfection,  have  rendered  them 
very  inadequate  to  the  caufe  I  have  under- 
taken. Confident,  however,  in  the  goodnefs 
of  that  caufe,  and  of  the  principle  with 
which  I  undertook  it,  let  me  hope  that  the 
merit  of  both  will  plead  for  and  fupply  the 
deficiency  of  the  advocate.  Magna  eft  veri- 

VOL.  i.  H  tas9 


98  THE   FREEHOLDER. 

tas,  et  prcevalebit.  It  will,  it  muft  prevail. 
Liberty  (hall  triumph  over  her  confederated 
enemies.  The  fallen  haughtinefs  of  hum- 
bled power,  and  the  bafenefs  of  groveling 
corruption  (hall  lick  the  dufl  together.  In- 
dependence and  publick  virtue  fhall  erecl; 
the  ftandard  of  freedom  high  in  this  happy 
land:  under  her  victorious  banners,  peace 
fhall  fmile  and  indufi  ry  fhall  flourifh.  Efteem, 
confidence,  and  affettion,  the  free  gifts  of 
grateful  liberty,  (hall  wait -upon  our  rulers  ; 
who  (hall  be  popular  in  proportion  to  their 
power  ;  and  fhall  find  their  firmeft  fupport, 
as  it  will  be  their  chief  happinefs,  to  prefide 

over  an  united  and  free  people. 

• 

A  FREEHOLDER. 

dprilgtb,  1776. 


DEMOCRATICUS. 

• 

A    SERIES    OF    LETTERS, 

ORIGINALLY   PRINTED   IN 

MR,  WOODFALL'S  Daily  Paper, 


PUBLICK    ADVERTISER, 

In  the 


II   2 


DEMOCRATICUS, 


For  the  PUBLICK  ADVERTISER. 

ADHERE  is  that  God  of  Finance;1 
exclaims  our  modeft  minifter  *,  (t  who  mall 
"  better  fupport  the  credit  of  the  country 
w  than  myfelf  ?"— (f  Who  will  undertake  for 
"  all  the  fupplies  neceflary  in  this  exigent 
"  moment,  without  great  lofs  to  the  publick, 
"  and  the  impofition  of  taxes  onerous  to 
"  the  people  ?  When  H  E  mail  be  found, 
"  I  will  cheerfully  retire  from  my  ftation ; 
"  happy  in  my  country's  profperity  from  fo 
"  fimple  a  meafure  as  the  difmiflion  of  a 
"  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer  !!>  Let  us 

*  Lord  North. 

examine 


102  DEMOCRATICUS. 

examine  this  rant.  His  Lordfhip  declares 
he  is  ready  to  give  place,  not  to  any 
able  financier  that  may  be  pointed  out,  (for 
then  indeed  his  date  of  power  were  mort) 
but  to  any  who  (hall  pofitively  undertake 
immediate  and  eafy  relief  of  the  publick  ne- 
ceffities,  imminent  and  ruinous  as  they  are 
at  the  prefent  difgraceful  moment.  But, 
the  difgrace  and  the  ruin  of  the  prefent  mo- 
-ment  we  owe  to  his  Lordfhip,  and  his  ac- 
complices in  office.  This  they  may  deny  ; 
for  what  will  they  not  deny  or  affert  ?  But 
their  country  challenges  them  to  the  proof. 
— It  is  a  truth  demonftrable  in  argument. 
His  Lordihip  has  been  ten  years  in  power; 
in  office,  at  lead :  for  I  am  aware  of  the 
defence  under  which  his  friends  would  (hel- 
ler him ;  and  will  admit  to  him  every  rea- 
fonable  degree  of  infignificance,  as  to  his 
honour,  ^both  as  a  minifler  and  a  man. 
But  he  has  not  been  fufficiently  contempti- 
ble to  be  fafe.  He  has  had  power  enough 
to  ruin  his  country.  All  its  refources  have 
been  at  the  command  of  adminiftration. 
Never  was  government  fo  flrongly  fup- 
ported.  The  publick  purfe  has  been  poured 

into 
3 


DEMOCRATLCUS.  1O3 

into  their  coffers,  almoft  without  queftion 
or  account.  The  publick  fword  was  placed 
in  their  hand  without  controul,  and  fhar- 
pened  at  their  pleafure ;  and  the  flag  of 
England  was  committed  to  their  care  un- 
ftained.  Monftrous  majorities  in  parliament 
obeyed  their  mandates ;  and  even  the  peo- 
ple, till  their  late  bitter  experience,  were 
deluded  and  inflamed  into  a  kind  of  con- 
currence in  their  violences.  Such  was  the 
fulnefs  of  power  entrufted  to  our  minifters. 
What  poflible  pretence,  therefore,  can  they 
oppofe  to  the  inference,  which  I  maintain 
is  inevitable  from  the  prefent  (late  of  things? 
The  difgrace  of  our  arms  ;  the  fall  of  our 
finance ;  die  bankruptcy  of  commerce ; 
Jofs  of  friends  and  acceflion  of  enemies  ;  ali- 
enation of  loyalty  and  confirmation  of  dif- 
affeclion,  to  the  utter  difmemberment  and 
imminent  ruin  of  the  empire;  thefe  are  the 
pofitive  fa6ts  of  the  prefent  time,  which 
prefs  and  overwhelm  every  man  in  the 
country  who  has  not  loft  the  ufe  of  reafon 
and  the  affections  of  fenfe.  What  do  the 
minifters  anfwer  ?  They  cannot  fay  WE  did 
it.  No,  my  Lord,  The  hands  of  the 

publick, 


104  DEMOCRATICUS. 

publick,  and  efpecially  of  that  part  of  it 
•which  you  attempt  to  vilify  for  their  deter- 
mined oppofition,  are  as  guiltlefs  of  the 
fword  which  you  plunge  in  the  vitals  of  the 
country,  as  of  the  proftituted  purfe  ex- 
haufted  to  pamper  every  department  of  the 
ftate.  You,  my  Lord,  and  the  exclufive 
partners  of  your  gratifications,  have  the  ex- 
clufive  praife  of  all  our  prefent  fituation. 
And  if  minifters  can  yet  be  refponfible  to 
this  finking  country,  you  and  your  aflb- 
ciates  have  an  exclufive  title  to  publick  ven- 
geance. 

How  then  ftands  the  argument  of  this 
reafoning  placeman  ?  Exaftly  confiftent 
with  his  financial  calculations.  The  expofal 
of  the  latter,  of  his  ignorance  even  in  the 
value  of  annuities,  of  his  confounded  argu- 
ment of  gratifications  and  fupplies,  and  of 
his  hopes  and  guefles  about  the  finance  of 
France,  can  receive  no  addition  either  of 
acutenefs  or  eloquence  to  thofe  abilities 
which  detected  his  miferable  budget.  But 
his  place,  it  feems,  he  will  not  refign,  till 
fome  god  (hall  arife,  equal  to  the  miracu- 
lous talk  of  inftantly  reftoring  order,  vigour, 

and 


DEMOCRATICUS,  105 

and  happinefs  to  the  country  which  he  and 
his  friends  have  governed !  However  we 
may  doubt  the  decency,  no  man  can  dif- 
pute  the  prudence  of  this  argument;  which, 
by  making  the  tenure  of  his  power  equal  to 
the  weaknefs,  if  not  wickednefs,  with  which 
he  has  ufed  it,  would  indeed  eftablifh  his 
intereft  to  him  and  his  heirs  for  ever. 

I  humbly  recommend  to  his  Lordfhip  to 
confider,  that  men  now  begin  to  feel ;  and 
therefore  to  think  for  themfelves  :  that  bom- 
baft  fo  unplaufible  can  no  longer  deceive  ; 
but  will  juftly  cover  with  contempt  and 
punifhment,  him  who  dares  to  ufe  it.  I 
would  therefore  fubmit  to  him,  whether  he 
ought  not,  in  fafety,  to  reverfe  his  lan- 
guage, and  fpeak  truth.  The  following 
fample  of  it  is  at  his  fervice,  which  I  would 
iincerely  advife  him  to  pronounce  as  the 
epilogue  to  his  taxes  this  day. 

".  Where  is  that  demon  of  difappointment 
"  and  diftrefs,  who  (hall  better  ruin  the 
"  credit  of  the  country  than  myfelf  ?  Who 
"  will  with  more  confidence  undertake  for 
"  all  the  fupplies  towards  a  war,  wicked  in 
fe  its  principle,  and  impracticable  in  its 

progrefs  ? 


1OS  DEMOCRATICU5. 

"  progrefs  ?  Or  who,  with  lefs  fhamc,  will 
"  fail  in  every  undertaking,  and  violate 
"  every  promife  ; — with  greater  lofs  to  the 
"  publick,  or  taxes  more  intolerable  ? — As 
"  none  fuch  can  be  found,  I  will  inftantly 
<e  retire  from  my  ftation  ;  too  happy  if  my 
<f  country's  lenity  (hall  be  content  in  fo 
<f  fimple  a  punifhment  as  my  difmiffion  from 
«  all  my  offices." 

I  am,  Sir, 
Your  mofl  obedient  fervant, 

DEMOCRATES, 

March  it  1779. 


TO   THE 

PRINTER  of  the  PUBLICK  ADVERTISER. 
SIR, 

1 T  is  hoped  that  the  publick  has  paid 
due  attention  to  the  ingenious  ref  )urces,  as 
well  as  the  ingenious  logic  of  its  minifler. — 

Indeed 


DEMOCRATICUS.  - 

Indeed  it  is  almoft  impoflible  to  feparate 
them  ;  fo  congenially  do  they  intermix  and 
illuftrate  each  other.  When  he  reafons,  his 
argument  is  founded  on  his  taxes ;  which 
his  own  meafures  have  rendered  at  once 
neceffary  and  impracticable  :  "  therefore," 
fays  our  treafury-logician,  "  I  (hall  continue 
"  in  office."  When  he  taxes,  his  reafoning 
repays  his  finance  with  abundant  theory: 
and  firft  he  hopes ;  then  he  promifes  ;  and 
at  lad  he  aflerts :  This  climax  of  confidence 
is  peculiarly  obfervable.  For  it  is  not,  as 
may  at  firft  appear,  an  attempt  at  additional 
credit.  He  only  takes  in  order  to  retain 
what  he  has,  by  preferving  an  aggregate 
proportion  of  influence.  It  becomes  necef- 
fary, therefore,  to  grow  ftrong  in  words,  as 
he  fails  in  fa&.  He  thus  repairs  his  defici- 
ency of  matter,  by  the  force  of  arfurance ; 
and  fecures  the  requifite  parliamentary  mo- 
mentum to  move  at  will  the  purfe  of  the 
publick. 

His  late  experiments  have  been  wonder- 
fully fuccefsful,  if  we  confider  the  compli- 
cation of  machinery  and  novelty  of  fituation 
that  might  naturally  have  difconcerted  his 

moving 


K)S  DEMOCRATICUS. 

moving  powers.  Acknowledged  impotence 
was  the  ground  they  flood  on ;  and  former 
difappointment  was  prefent  encouragement 
— Thus  founded,  he  proceeded  to  hope  for 
the  future  poverty  of  France,  becaufe  (he 
had  now  no  debt ;  and  for  the  future  riches 
of  England,  becaufe  (he  had  now  no  credit. 
His  hopes  then  expanded  to  infinite  practi- 
cal benefits,  from  lefs  than  fpeculative 
pamphlets.  He  expatiated  on  the  facility 
of  obtaining  much,  becaufe  little  could  not 
be  obtained :  arid  on  the  wifdom,  in  effect, 
of  a  produ&ive  tax,  which  mould  deflroy 
the  productive  principle*  This  hopeful 
minifter  then,  infpired  with  the  fpirit  of 
promife,  engaged  to  relieve  the  finking 
fund,  by  continuing  its  burthen ;  underta- 
king that  the  taxes,  whofe  failure  had  over- 
whelmed it,  mould  now  produce,  becaufe 
experience  proved  them  unproductive.  He 
promifed — but  what  did  he  not  promife? 
Nothing  is  too  arduous  for  his  magnani- 
mous imagination.  He  promifed  even  the 
continuance  of  the  war  .in  America.  He 
pledged  his  honourable  perfeverance  in  it, 
becaufe  he  had  fludied  its  relinquifhment 

through 


DEMOCRATICUS.  109 

through  every  difgrace  to  himfelf  and  his 
accomplices ;  and  he  vows  vengeance  on 
the  rebels,  becaufe  he  had  been  a  beggar  at 
the  feet  of  America,  that  they  would  forgive 
him.  He  urges  war  becaufe  he  cannot  wage 
it ;  and  becaufe  the  greateft  total  exertions 
of  his  country  have  been  baffled  ;— -he  pro- 
mifes  fuccefs  from  diftrafted  efforts,  and  lit* 
tie  battles ;  from  operations  of  lefs  extent, 
and  ftruggles  of  wafted  vigour.  And  he 
defends  this  monftrous  mafs  of  abfurdity 
and  calamity,  by  the  offence  of  truth 
and  honour;  by  libelling  the  moft  honoured 
names  in  the  country ;  endeavouring  to  tear 
from  the  brow  of  valour  and  well-earned 
fame,  its  eftablifhed  laurel ;  fairly  won  in 
the  fame  fields  of  glory  that  gave  immortal 
crowns  to  Wolfe,  to  Saunders,  and  to 
Hawke ;  planted  by  Mr.  Pitt,  and  gathered 
by  thofe  brave  men,  who  are  now  traduced 
for  not  adding  to  their  wreaths  in  the  defart, 
where  thorns  and  thirties  only  grow ;  who 
are  devoted  for  the  failure  of  impoflible 
meafures,  and  calumniated  for^the  difap- 
pointment  of  couniels,  which  as  no  wifdom 
qr  juftice  had  contributed  to  form,  no 

valour 


T1O  DEMOCRATICUS. 

valour    or    conduct   could    avail    to  effec-. 
tuate. 

Self-defence,  my  Lord,  may  be  the  law 
of  art,  as  it  is  of  nature.  We  will  not  won- 
der, therefore,  that  you  and  your  friends 
fhould  ftrain  every  artifice  to  ruin  the  noblefl 
honour,  and  the  moft  approved  virtue  in 
the  kingdom ;  J^ecaufe  that  virtue  is  too 
pure,  and  that  honour  too  illuftrious  to  mix 
with  meannefs,  malice,  and  difgrace ;  be- 
caufe  thofe  honourable  and  injured  men 
will  not  ferve  their  country,  while  you 
prefide  at  the  treafury ;  while  your  afleflbr 
holds  the  department  that  was  American, 
and  continues  baleful  intercourfe  with  the 
ghofts  of  the  departed  colonies ;  and  while 
the  ftain  of  office,  that  reproach  and  ftigma 
of  every  thing  decent  in  private  life,  or  dig- 
nified in  publick  conduft,  ufurps  the  care 
of  the  Britifh  flag. 

DEMOCRATS^ 

March  5,  1779. 


For 


DEMOCRATICUS.  Ill 


For  the  PUBLICK  ADVERTISER. 

IF  the  noble  Lord  in  the  blue  ribbon,  or 
s:  the  noble  Lord  at  the  head  of  the  Admi- 
<s  ralty,  have  difmantled  the  naval  fervice 
"  of  its  beft  and  bravefl  officers,  they  are 
"  traitors  ; — more  criminally  traitorous  to 
"  their  country,  than  the  wretch  who  at> 
"  tempts  to  fire  your  dock-yards  !"  Truth 
is  bold.  The  Right  Honourable  Colonel  * 
did  not  fear  to  urge  home  the  charge.  HE 
did  not  difgrace  his  aflertion  with  the  fub- 
terfuge  of  Shakefpeare's  clown.  HE  did 
not  whine  out  that  it  all  depended  on  an  If; 
nor  falfify  his  words  with  an  auxiliary  Almoft. 
He  maintained  his  hypothefis,  and  proved 
the  faft.  What  fays  the  culprit  in  the  blue 
ribbon  ?  Guilty  or  not  guilty  ?  Nothing  ? 
Mute, — abfolutely  mute  !  But  he  fpeaks 
by  his  counfel :  who  is  alfo  his  witnefs,  and 
aflures  us  "  that  his  Lordfhip  is  the  mo/l 

*  Colonel  Barre. 

popular 


112  DEMOCRATICUS, 

popular  mmijler  the  country  ever  had  !'* 
We  all  know  the  tender  ties  that  have  at- 
tached this  young  gentleman  and  this  noble 
Lord  to  a  common  centre.  When  weeping 
beauty  fues,  a  Lord  is  but  a  man.  And 
•who  will  not  admire  the  interchangeable 
delicacies  of  love  and  gratitude  ?  This  beau- 
tiful fyftem  was  not,  as  Montefquieu  fays  of 
the  Englifh  conftitution,  found  in  the 

woods  ;  but  as  Mr.  St.  J hopes  will  be 

completed  there :  and  in  the  woods  of  Ame- 
rica too;  where  indeed  the  completion  of 
our  conftitution,  rather  than  of  Mr.  St. 
J  - .  .'s  hopes,  is  only  to  be  looked  for. 

Did  his  Lordfhip  referve  his  defence  for 
this  day,  when  again  perhaps  the  charge 
{hall  be  urged  and  proved  againft  him  ?  or 
will  he  continue  contumacious,  at  his  peril  ? 
Even  the  found  difcretion  of  Mr.  Wedder- 
burne  will,  difgrace  its  definition,  and  will 
hefitate  at  the  tyrannous  and  traitorous  pro- 
fcription  of  the  beft  and  braveft  men  from 
our  fervice,  though  its  nature  was  amply 
indulged  in  their  groundlefs  and  malicious, 
profecution. 

Mv 


DEMOCRATICUS.  113 

My  Lord,  the  honour  of  the  fervice,  and 
involved  in  it.  the  fafety  of  the  country, 
demand,  and  will  every  day  more  urgently 
demand,  your  anfwer  or  your  punimment. 
Serioufly,  my  Lord :  for  be  aflured  your 
Barnacle-jokes  fhall  not  fuffice  for  the  for- 
mer, nor  merely  the  difmiflion  of  you  and 
your  Brother-barnacles  for  the  latter.  Did 
you,  or  did  you  not,  with  your  accomplices 
in  government,  commit  the  honour  of  the 
Britim  flag  into  an  hazard,  from  which  no- 
thing could  have  redeemed  it  but  the  mag- 
nanimity of  Mr.  Keppel  ?  Did  you,  or  did 
you  not,  ever  fignify  a  fentiment  from  go- 
vernment on  that  important  and  mod  con- 
fequential  tranfaclion  ?  which  if  meritori- 
ous, deferved  the  loudeft  praife ;  if  blame- 
able,  the  fevered  ptmifhment.  Did  you,  or 
did  you  not,  fend  him  again,  to  fea,  at  laft 
with  a  force  almofl  equal  to  the  French, 
entangled  and  endangered  by  your  filence 
and  malevolence  ?  On  his  return,  victori- 
ous in  fpite  of  treachery  or  malice,  did  you, 
or  did  you  not,  congratulate  him  ?  On  his 
honeft  triumph,  victorious  over  a  ground- 
Jefs  and  malicious  accufation,  which  had'~ 

VOL.  i.  I  wickedly 


PEMOCRATICUS. 

wickedly  aimed  at  his  life  and  honour,  did 
you,  or  did  you  not,  join  the  general  joy 
of  your  country  ?  Or  were  you,  and  your 
compeers  the  exception  of  the  age,  the  joint 
Therfites  of  the  time,  envious  of  his  virtues, 
and  fiekening  at  his  glory  ? 

Of  the  wretched  man  whom  the  favour 
of  government  has  conduced  to  his  fate, 
even  fatire  fhall  be  filent.  Perhaps  not  an 
object  of  pity :  but  no  man  is  an  object  of 
cruelty. — But  of  the  illuflrious  Admiral 
whofe  virtues  are  beft  rewarded  by  the  ap-, 
plaufe  of  his  country  and  mankind,  have  not 
you,  and  your  abettors,  been  affiduous  tra^ 
ducers  ? — in  private  fcandals-*— in  publick 
libels  ?  Under  your  fanftion,  in  your  pay, 
does  not  the  prefs  groan  with  calumny  againft 
him  ?  The  prefs,  my  Lord,  is  honeft  as  well 
as  free.  It  owes  you  much,  and  {hall  not 
remain  in  your  debt. 

DEMOCRATES. 

March  2«,  1779.. 


TO 


DEMOCRATICUS. 


TO   THE 

PRINTER  ofthePuBLicx.  ADVERTISER. 
SIR, 

VxN  that  memorable  occafion,  when  Go- 
vernor Johnftone  was  to  atone  for  his  vote 
againft  adminiflration  by  his  fpeech  againft 
Lord  Howe,  it  cannot  be  wondered  that 
the  delicacy  of  fituation  mould  a  little  em- 
barrafs  a  man,  whofe  characleriftic  is  cer- 
tainly not  refinement  or  addrefs.  That 
fuch  a  man  floundering  between  his  convic- 
tion and  his  commiflion,  mould  incur  a  little 
abfurdity,  will  not  create  furprife.  His 
aukward  efforts  at  confiftency  have  hitherto 
provoked  no  paffion  but  pity.  —  They  have 
attracted  little  notice,  and  lefs  refentment. 
But  when  the  Governor  grows  mifchievous  ; 
when  he  contrails  a  league  with  minifters, 
offenfive  as  well  as  defenfive;  —  and  not 
content  with  extolling  the  wifdom  of  their 
deliberations,  and  his  own  glorious  fucceffes 
i  2  under 


H6  DEMOGRATICUS. 

under  their  banner,  proceeds  to  arraign 
the  beft  chara&ers  in  the  country,  charging 
the  mod  eminent  officers  in  the  naval  fer- 
vice  with  defertion  of  duty,  and  growing  too 
great  for  the  Jlate;  and  indirectly  imputing 
to  one  of  them,  deficiency  of  conduct  or 
courage  in  his  American  command ;  he 
then  deferves  fome thing  lefs  than  compaf- 
iion,  and  more  than  contempt. — The  gen- 
tleman who  infinuates  againfl  the  honour  or 
delicacy  of  another,  deferves  rebuke  :  the 
captain  who  depreciates  the  character  and 
conduct  of  his  fuperior  officer,  deferves 
chafti  femem ;  though  the  commijfioner  who 
rails  at  minifters,  and  then  flatters  them, 
who  flatters  "  the  worthy  char  afters"  in  Ame- 
rica, and  than  rails  at  them  ;  who  ftigma- 
tifes  the  country  which  employs  him,  and 
his  royal  mailer  whofe  cornmiffion  he  holds, 
for  "  their  conduct  in  the  hour  of  their  info- 
knce"  may  perhaps  deferve — his  falary. 

I  flated  in  my  former  letter  a  Jew  of  the 
notorious  fafts  which  more  than  vindicate 
Admiral  Keppel  from  Governor  Johnftone's 
imputation;  which  demonflrate  that  injured 
officer,  not  only  guiltlefs  of  deferting  the 

Jlate, 


DEMOCRATICU9.  :  ll/ 

Jiate,  but  eminently  meritorious  in  his  zeal 
to  ferve  it ;  in  a&ually  having  ferved  it 
through  all  the  dangers  of  adminirlration,  till 
confirmed  injuries  rendered  his  further  fer- 
vice  utterly  impoflible  as  a  man  of  honour, 
fpirit,  or  common-fenfe,  under  the  prefent 
minifters. 

If  we  confider  Lord  Howes  principles  and 
conduct,  it  will  appear  at  leaft  equally  extra- 
ordinary that  fuch  an  imputation  mould  be 
imagined  againft  him.  His  political  fenti- 
ments  were  well  known  ;  and  the  firmnefs, 
as  well  as  the  goodnefs  of  his  underflanding, 
is  univerfally  acknowledged.  He  never 
adopted  no*r  deferted  his  opinions  lightly. 
Pofiefled,  however,  of  the  fteadieft  difappro- 
bation  of  fome  of  the  principles  of  fome  of 
our  rulers,  he  did  notwithstanding  accept 
the  command  in  America.  This  is  a  pofitive 
facl,  direclly  in  proof  that  merely  a  differ- 
ence of  political  fentiments  from  the  minifter 
did  not,  could  not,  induce  him  to  defert  the 
Jlale.  It  would  be  the  groffeft  perverfion 
of  argument,  to  infmuate  a  contrary  infer- 
ence from  this  admitted  fa6t,  to  argue,  that 
becaufe  he  actually  engaged  in  the  fervice 

of 


M8  DEMOCRAT1CUS. 

of  the  flate,  he  was  virtually  to  defert  it ; — • 
that  becaufe  he  difliked  fome  of  the  opinions 
of  the  minifter,  he  was  to  betray  the  whole 
truft  of  his  country.  If  fuch  were  the  fair 
inference,  what  will  his  advocates  fay  for 
the  minifter  himfelf,  who  has  fignalized  a 
diflike  of  his  own  opinions  by  a  proof  which 
Lord  Howe  cannot  give, — by  a  violation 
of  the  word  of  honour ;  folemnly  pledged 
by  this  honourable  minifter  to  the  country 
(and  efpecially  the  country  gentlemen)  "  that 
he  would  never  depart  from  his  opinions, 
nor  make  concejfions  to  America!"  Yet  he 
has  found  his  opinions  fo  defer ving  of  diflike , 
that  he  has  departed  from  every  one  of 
them.  The  neceflities  of  his  folly  have  been 
fo  much  ftronger  than  the  obligations  of  his 
honour,  that  he  has  facrihced  the  latter  to 
appeafe  the  former  ;  and  has  been  forced  to 
fupplicate  every  thing,  where  he  was  bound 
to  concede  nothing. 

Lord  Howe,  no  lefs  than  Admiral  Kep- 
pel,  experienced  from  the  firft  moment  of 
his  appointment  the  cold  and  difcouraging 
neglecl:  of  adminiflration.  That  dilatory 
diflruft  which  marks  the  indecifion  of  little 

minds, 


&EMOCRATICUS. 

minds,  difappointed  the  hopes  of  the  coun- 
try, and  of  Lord  Howe,  in  the  effed  of  the 
commiflion  to  which  he  was  named.  The 
powers  granted  to  him  were  imperfect,  as 
he  in  vain  remonftrated  before  he  went  out; 
and  the  delay  was  fatal,  as  every  man,  except 
the  minifters,  forefaw.  Seven  months  had 
elapfed  between  the  declared  intention  and 
the  appointment  of  that  commiflion.  What 
could  be  ex  peeled  by  any  reafonable  man, 
but  that  the  minifter!s  prohibitory-bills,  pi- 
racy-bills, "Jlarvation-billsy" — (for  barbarous 
epithets  beft  fuit  barbarous  meafures)— 
(hould  in  the  mean  time  have  driven  the 
Americans  to  independence. 

Lord  Howe  did  notwithftanding,  for  the 
pofTibility  of  ferving  his  country  in  fpite  of 
her  minifters,  accept  the  commiOlon  and 
the  command :  and  though  the  deceitful 
delays  of  adminiftration  in  granting  the  firft, 
and  their  continued  nfgle&s  and  blunders  in 
fupporting  the  laft,  made  it  impoflible  to 
fucceed  effectually  in  either,  his  fervices 
in  both  have  confirmed  to  him  what  he  had 
before  amply  earned,  the  grateful  voice  of  his 
country,  and  the  impartial  praife  of  hiftory. 

To 


12©     ^  DEMOCRATICUS. 

To  thofe  who  know  the  parties,  the  un- 
ceafing  efforts  of  miniflry  to  detraft  from 
his  character,  would  be  fufficient  proof  of 
its  eminent  merit,  profeffionally  or  perfon- 
ally,  from  which  they  have  not  endeavoured 
to  detract?  They  have  flandered  Sir  Guy 
'Carleton  and  Sir  William  Howe ;  they  have 
perfecuted  General  Burgoyne,  and  they 
have  confpired  againft  Admiral  Keppel. 
Our  oldeft  and  beft  acknowledged  officers, 
.of  veteran  fame,  have  not  efcaped,  becaufe 
they  interpofed  in  the  caufe  of  honour.  The 
.facred  character  of  courts  martial,  and  the 
unanimous  honour  of  the  Britifh  navy,  have 
been  aflailed.  In  fuch  a  maffacre  of  ho* 
nourable  character,  it  would  be  extra- 
ordinary indeed  if  Lord  Howe  were  a  fa- 
vourite. 

But  hitherto  the  fcandals  of  miniftry  have 
moved  in  a  humbler  fphere,— -in  paragraphs 
and  whifpers ;  not  lefs  mifchievous,  per- 
haps, circulated  as  they  are  with  malicious 
induflry,  but  certainly  lefs  bold  than  the 
avowal  of  Governor  Johnflone. 
-  From  his  avowed  imputations,  I  mall  in 
another  letter  feleft  three  ideas,  and  fhall 

take 


DEMOCRATICUSi  121 

take  the  liberty  of  adding  Lord  Howe's  (hort 
but  decifive  comments  on  them.  With 
what  has  been  already  faid,  and  what  is  uni- 
verfally  admitted  as  to  refpeftive  reputation, 
they  will  probably  be  fatisfaftory  to  the 
publick. 

DEMOCRATES. 

April  i,  1779. 


TO  THE 

' 

PRINTER  of  the  PUBLICK  ADVERTISER. 
SIR, 

JDEFORE  I  proceed  to  obferve  upon  the 
imputations  and  do6lrines  of  Governor 
Johnftone,  and  the  manner  in  which  Lord 
Howe  treated  them,  as  I  propofed  in  my 
laft  letter,  it  may  not  be  improper  to  advert 
a  little  to  the  long  and  laborious  fpeech 
which  the  Governor  has  thought  proper  to 

publifh. 


publifh.  The  mifreprefentation  of  Admiral 
Keppel's  fentiments  with  which  it  begins,  is 
a  clue  to  the  intention  of  the  whole*  The 
Admiral  is  there  made  to  give  his  fanclion 
to  the  conduct  of  minifters,-^"  that  in  his 
"  opinion  they  had  done  every  thing  in 
"  their  power  to  aflift  Lord  Howe;  and 
<f  that  they  had  not  force  fufficient  to  fend 
"  a  fleet  to  the  Mediterranean.'1  Direftly 
contrary  to  faft,  and  the  Admiral's  declared 
opinion,  is  the  firfl  aflertion ;  and  grofsly 
fallacious  is  the  fecond,  as  deduced  from  the 
former:  for  it  would  thence  be  inferred, 
that  having  done  every  thing  for  Lord 
Howe,  they  therefore  had  not  force  fufficient 
for  the  Mediterranean.  Now,  what  was  the 
fact  ?  They  h&d  done  nothing  for  Lord 
Howe,  and  they  could  do  nothing  for  the 
Mediterranean.  And  what  was  Admiral  Kep- 
peFs  opinion,  demonflrated  in  the  Houfe  of 
Commons  ?  Not  as  the  Governor  would 
echo  to  the  mifreprefention  of  minifters,  that 
they  had  done  every  thing  in  their  power, 
and  therefore  that  they  were  innocent  as 
to  fubfequent  infufficiency  of  force ;  but, 
that  their  original  neglect  and  ignorance 

throughout 


DEMOCRATICUS.  123 

throughout  had  left  them  finally  deficient, 
even  in  defence  of  the  kingdom: — Not  that 
they  had  affijled  Lord  Howe,  but  that  his  Lord- 
fhip's  own  incomparable  conduct,  "for  tJic 
ic  glory  of  which  he  would  gladly  have  exchang- 
"  ed  all  the  attions  of  his  life"  had  fupported 
himfelf  throughout  the  moft  dangerous  cir- 
cumftances  of  inferiority  to  the  enemy  to 
which  minifters  had  devoted  him,  and  had 
faved  the  fleet  and  army  in  America. 

So  much  for  that  mifreprefentation,  which 
one  would  hardly  have  expected  to  fee  for- 
mally in  print,  detected  and  expofed  as  it 
had  been  in  the  debate. 

Some  other  points  of  lefs  importance  oc- 
cur in  the  printed  fpeech  of  the  Governor, 
which  thofe  who  heard  Lord  Howe's  reply 
will  wonder  to  fee  retrained,  being  not  im- 
mediately neceffary  to  the  caufe  of  admini- 
ftration.  The  infmuation,  for  inftance,  in 
terms  as  liberal  as  the  idea,  that  Lord  Howe 
had  fome  Jhare  in  the  publication  of  the 
pamphlet  relative  to  the  tranfaftions  of  the 
fleet,  might  have  been  fpared  (it  is  a  little 
foftened)  in  the  printed  fpeech  ;  as  it  would 
nave  been  better  not  repeated,  and  urged 

with 
3 


124  DEMOCRATICUS. 

with  fome  argument  about  an  allufion  to 
inftruclions  contained  in  it,  in  the  Gover- 
nor's reply  and  debate.  The  manner  in 
which  Lord  Howe  obferved  upon  it,  might 
have  convinced  his  fenfibility,  if  not  his 
candour.  His  Lordmip  had  declared  upon 
his  honour  he  knew  nothing  of  the  pamph- 
let till  it  was  fent  to  him,  in  a  cover,  to  his 
houfe  in  the  country  ; — nor  had  at  the  mo- 
ment he  was  fpeaking,  any  certain  know- 
ledge of  the  author : — That  as  to  the  pro- 
priety, the  decency,  of  imputing  to  him 
any  fJiare  of  a  pamphlet,  "  loading  him,"  as 
the  gentleman  chofe  to  exprefs  it,  "  with 
the  moft  fulfome  flattery,"  he  would  leave 
fuch  infmuations  to  the  gentleman  to  recon- 
cile to  his  own  ideas  of  Liberality. 

The  other  more  important  imputations, 
which  however  feebly  urged,  were  aimed 
at  all  his  character,  profeffional,  perfonal, 
or  political,  his  Lordmip  repelled  with  a 
force  and  dignity  of  conviction,  not  eafily 
imagined  by  thofe  who  had  not  feen  fuch  a 
man  in  fuch  a  fituation.  Befides  the  many 
collateral  facls  of  "  the  quantity  of  provi- 
fions  in  Philadelphia,"  of  "  fix  months  fub- 

fiftence 


DEMOCRATICUS.-  125 

fiftence  for  the  troops  by  driving  Long- 
Ifland,  &c."  which  the  Governor  chofe  to 
offer  t,  ("as  he  had  been  informed") — in 
contradiction  to  the  pofitive  ftate  of  things, 
and  the  imminent  danger,  as  Lord  Howe 
had  flated,  from  aRual  knowledge,  of  the 
army  and  fleet  being  ftarved  and  deftroyed! 
— The  governor  proceeded  to  his  grand 
argument  to  prove  Lord  Howe's  fleet  fupe- 
rior  to  Count  D'Eftaing's.  The  object  of 
this  argument,  evidently  to  vindicate  admi- 
niftration,  by  derogating  from  Lord  Howe, 
deferved  the  kind  of  proof  that  he  advanced 
to  effect  it.  He  worked  the  fhips  of  the 
line  and  his  frigates,  as  a  fchool-boy  works 
his  pounds,  (hillings,  and  pence ;  adding  and 
fubtracling,  and  drawing  up  a  line  of  figures 
inftead  of  a  line  of  battle.— An  intention  fo 
illiberal,  and  proofs  fo  ridiculous,  would 
hardly  have  demanded  ferious  refutation,  if 
they  had  not  been  accompanied  by  an  im- 
pofing  parade  of  profeflional  minutenefs ; — 
for  the  Governor  has  been  a  Captain  in 
the  fervice. 

Lord  Howe  was  aftonifhed,  that  any  man 
who  had  ever  feen  or  heard  of  the  fervice, 

fhould 


126  DEMOCRATICUS. 

fhould  advance  fuch  ftrange  and  ignorant 
imaginations.  "  He  underftood,  indeed/' 
he  went  on  to  fay,  "  that  the  gentleman  had 
"  quitted  the  profeffion  jor  fome  time; — but 
"  that  a  man  who  had  ever  been  in  it, 
"  fhould  have  fo  totally  loft  all  ideas  of  it, 
"  as  to  talk  of  piecing  out  a  line  of  battle 
Si  with  frigates  / — againft  a  great  heavy  line 
Sf  of  the  enemy  of  much  fuperior  {hips !— — 
"  He  did  not  know  what  term  to  give  to 
ft  fuch  argument." — ff  The  gentleman  had 
"  talked  of  fifty  and  fixty-gun  (hips  being 
"  equal  to  feventy-fours  ! — and  that  a  fmall 
fe  (hip,  fupported  by  a  frigate,  could  beat  a 
«  large  (hip  !— (  Poflibly/  his  Lordfhip  ad- 
"  mitted,  ' in  a  fingle  engagement : — and 
ff  poflibly,  alfo,  a  fmaller  fhip  might  fmgly 
"  engage  a  much  larger  one  with  fuccefs,  by 
"  the  fuperior  gallantry  of  commander  and 
"  men; — but  to  transfer  this  reafoning,  un- 
<f  certain  even  in  the  cafe  of  fingle  mips,  to 
<c  a  general  engagement  in  a  great  line  of 
"  battle  ! — No  man  could  argue  fo  who 
"  knew  what  a  line  of  battle  was ;  for  that 
"  in  fuch  a  cafe,  the  frigates  probably  could 
"  not  aft  at  all;  and  the  fmaller  veflels 

'*  certainly 


DEMOCRATICUS.  127 

"  certainly  with  encreafed  difadvantage, 
"  againft  the  combined  and  greatly-multi- 
"  plied  force  of  the  fuperior  line." — Every 
one  who  has  feen  or  heard  Lord  Howe,  muft 
have  obferved  with  admiration  the  peculiar 
rnodefty  and  delicacy  which  chara&erife 
the  genuine  foldier.  Coriolanus  wifhed 
"  Rather  to  have  his  wounds  to  heal  again, 
^ — than  hear  how  he  got  them."  Whenever 
profeflional  fubjeclis  occur,  Lord  Howe 
avoids  every  poflible  mention  of  himfelf ; 
or  if  the  debate  require  it,  he  fpeaks  on 
that  fubjeft  with  a  diffidence  and  modefty, 
equalled  only  by  the  applaufe  and  triumph 
with  which  his  country  crowns  it. — No^ 
thing,  therefore,  can  more  ftrongly  mark 
his  fullnefs  of  conviftion  on  this  occafion, 
mixed  with  fome  juft  indignation,  than  the 
juft  perfonality  which  was  extorted  from 
him.— "  I  feel  myfelf  profeffionally  called 
"  upon  ;— but  I  mould  not  mention  my 
"  rank  in  the  fervice,  nor  allude  to  any 
"  little  abilities  or  experience  I  may  pofiefs 
'•"  in  it,  if  I  could  not  fupport  my  opinion 
"  by  argument,  and  appeal  for  its  undenia- 
"  ble  certainty  to  every  feaman  who  knows 

"  what 


128  DEM  OCR  A  TIC  US. 

(e  what  fervice  is. — I  can,  therefore,  aflurc 
"the  gentleman,  that  Admiral  Howe  will 
"  not  apply  to  Captain  John/lone  to  in{lru61 
*c  -him  'in  the  elements  of  his  profeflion." 

But  we  muft  now  leave  the  Captain  to 
attend  the  Commiffioner.  For  in  his  politi- 
cal capacity  he  proceeded  to  the  imputation, 
which  has  already  been  pretty  amply  refu- 
ted, both  as  to  Admiral  Keppel  and  Lord 
Howe,  of  their  •"  growing  too  great  for 
"  the  date." — His  Lordfhip  aflured  the 
houfe,  with  a  zeal  well  confident  with  a 
whole  life  of  the  braveft  and  mofl  ho- 
nourable patriotifm,  "  That  no  man  felt 
"  more  ardour  to  ferve  his  country  than  he 
"  did ; — but  he,  begged,  that  as  men  of 
ft  confideration  and  honour,  they  would 
"  weigh  the  circumftances  of  the  cafe  he 
"  mould  fuppofe  to  them.  If  an  officer 
te  who  accepts  a  command,  in  America  fup- 
"  pofe,  is  thwarted,  difappointed,  and  de- 
"  ceived  in  that  command  by  the  minifter 
"  for  the  American  department : — If  an 
"  officer,  who  is  appointed  to  a  naval  com- 
"  mand,  meets  with  nothing  but-  neglefts 
"  and  injuries  from  the  admiralty ; — if  the 

«  firft 


DEMOCRAT1CUS.  129 

"  firft  Lord  of  that  department  fets  all  his 
te  power  againft  all  the  credit  and  chara&er 
"  of  that  officer.  —  I  can  prove  what  I  fup- 
"  pofe,  —  and  will  go  into  the  proof  when- 
•"  ever  the  houfe  pleafes."—  What  is  an  offi- 
cer fo  circumftanced  to  do  ?  Can  heferve 
his  country  under  fuch  minifters  ?  Can  any 
man  hefitate  to  anfwer  ?  Will  any  man,  for 
a  moment,  endure  the  injurious  imputation 
that  .fuch  officers  grow  too  great  for  thejlate 
*--  inftead  of  the  true  an4  melancholy  fa6l, 
that  the  itate  is  grown  too  corrupt  and 
wicked  for  the  poffibility  of  being  ferved, 
under  the  prefent  mal-adminiftration,  by 
men  of  character  and  honour. 


DEMOCRATES. 

1779. 


VOL.  I.  K  TO 


130  DEMOCRATICU&, 

" 

TO   THE 

PRINTER  of  the  PUBLICK  ADVERTISER, 

SIR, 

•. 

IHOUGH  Lord  North  omitted  on  laft 
Thurfday  his  expefted  renewal  of  attack  on 
the  committee  of  inquiry,  the  public  are 
not  to  conclude  that  he  has  abandoned  a 
meafure  fo  decent  and  refpe&ful  to  parlia- 
ment, and  fo  incumbent  on  himfelf  as  par- 
liament minifter.  On  the  contrary,  thofe 
who  befl  know  him,  and  his  parliamentary 
fyftem,  are  aflured  that  he  will  on  Tuefday 
object  to  the  continuance  of  the  inquiry, 
becaufe  on  the  preceding  Thurfday  he  had 
acquiefced  in  its  beginning,  and  himfelf 
taken  part  in  it.  But  befides  this  fyftemati- 
cai  reafon,  other  urgent  motives  occur  to 
flimulate  the  feelings  of  his  Lordfhip.  The 
evidence  already  in  poflefiion  of  this  it  regu- 
lar committee  is  of  the  moft  dangerous  ten- 
dency ;  and  contrary  to  all  order  and  cuf- 

tom 


DfcMOCRATICUS.  131 

torn  of  parliament  it  has  been  entertained, 
though  it  criminates  minifters.  It  cannot 
be  imagined  that  the  houfe  will  endure  fuch 
unparliamentary  proceedings.  It  was  in> 
proper  enough  to  vindicate  the  character  of 
Sir  W.  Howe ;  for  from  the  demonftration. 
of  his  meritorious  conduct  of  the  war,  as  far 
as  depended  on  him  either  for  plan  or  exe- 
cution, an  alternative  of  fome  danger  might 
arife  againft  thofe,  whofe  counfels  he  was 
Called  upon  to  execute,  with  the  means 
they  mould  be  pleafed  to  fupply.— -But* 
without  waiting  for  this  deduction  of  cen- 
fure,  which  poflibly  might  be  evaded,  or  at 
leaft  delayed,— the  detection  all  at  once  of 
the  abfurdity  and  ignorance  of  our  great 
ftatefman  will  be,  as  Lord  Nugent  folemnly 
declares  and  "  vows  to  God," — a  prodigious 
inconvenience  to  them.  It  cannot  be  doubt- 
ed, therefore,  that  this  unfeemly  proceeding, 
which  has  already  produced  fufficient  fport, 
ought  now  to  be  checked.  Mr.  Rigby  him- 
felf  begins  to  confefs  that  the  joke  may  be 
carried  too  far;  and  the  clamour  even  of 
the  Lord  Advocate  feems  to  fubfide  into 
the  Jilent  difcretion  of  Mr.  Weddcrburne. 
K  2  Some 


132  DEMOCRATICUS. 

Some  management,  however,  will  be  ne- 
ceflary  in  changing  the  ground  with  fafety; 
and  for  this  important  confideration  it  may 
be  advifeable  to  change  the  commander.  It 
certainly  is  not  reafonable  always  to  put 
Lord  North  in  the  van  on  fuch  a6live  fer- 
vice.  Though  he  has  fucceeded  wonderfully 
hitherto  in  Jhi/ting  his  fio/ttion,  and  in  his 
late  famous  retreat  covered  his  rear  fo  pow- 
erfully, that  even  Mr.  Burke's  rangers  could 
fcarcely  aflail  him  ;  his  evolutions  have  been 
fo  frequently  repeated,  they  can  no  longer 
deceive.  But  if  a  certain  noble  Lord  will 
accept  the  command,  we  may  indeed  expeft 
fome  mafterly  manoeuvres  in  the  fervice 
propofed : — An  honour  that  feems  to  de- 
volve on  him,  from  the  gallantry  with  which 
he  has  already  taken  the  field  : — For  we  can 
hardly  doubt  that  the  zeal  with  which  he 
has  already  charged  the  enemy  will  be  at  leaft 
as  confpicuous,  in  a6ling  on  fuch  honour- 
able motives  to  decline  the  charge.  To  en- 
fure  the  brilliancy  of  the  day,  his  Lordfhip 
fhould  be  careful  in  the  appointment  of  his 
officers.  Mr.  De  Grey  certainly  deferves 
an  advanced  poft— in  the  retreat;  from  the 

retrograde 


DEMOCRATICUS.  133 

retrograde  (kill  he  exhibited  in  his  fkirmifh 
with  Lord  Cornwallis,  at  Brooklyn : — Ge- 
nerals Pownall  and  Sutton  {hall  "  turn  the 
flank,"  and  "  get  into  the  rear  of  the  line's,'"' 
— provided  always  "  that  they  do  not  extend 
to  the  water" — and  "  that  they  have  room 
to  tower  the  breeches — of  the  cannon  : — And 
laft  and  leaft,  Colonel  Onflow  will  take  fpe- 
cial  care,  •"  if  the  rain  does  not  blow  in  his 
face,"  to  fave  from  its  fury  the  powder  and 
provifions. 

Previoufly,  however,  to  this  retiring  con- 
queft  of  his  Lordfhip,  turning,  as  his  friend 
Governor  Johnftone  faid  of  the  minifters, 
(before  he  was  a  cOmmiflioner)  his  '"-mcto- 
rious  back  upon  the  foe  ; — as  I  confefs  my- 
felf  an  enemy  to  the  minifterial  mode  of 
warfare,  I  wifh  to  warn  the  people  of  the 
country  where  it  is  carried  on,  that  if  they 
exert  their  force,  with  fpirit,  to  maintain 
the  important  advantages  they  have  gained, 
they  may  and  will  fubdue  their  trembling 
enemy.  The  advantages  are  thefe  :  It  is  in 
official  proof  before  the  public,  that  minifters 
rejected  all  the  information,  and  refufed  all 
the  requifuions,  of  the  commander  in  chief, 

as 


104  DEMOC^ATICUS. 

as  to  the  neeeflary  force  for  carrying  on  the 
war—  rrelying  themfelves,  and  deceiving  par- 
liament with  that  reliance,  on  guefles  with- 
out knowledge,  and  intelligence  without 
truth,  In  confequence  of  fuch  reliance  and 
fuch  deception,  it  is  in  profeflional  and  un- 
doubted proof,  at  the  bar  of  the  Houfe  of 
Commons,  that  they  have  not  now,  nor  ever 
had,  a  force  in  America  capable  offubduing 
it;—  that  is,  ^  They  have  expended  forty 
"  millions  of  money,  —  they  have  facrificed 
"  forty  thoufand  lives,  —  they  have  ruined 
"  the  trade  and  the  naval  refources  of 
"  England,  —  they  have  degraded  their  coun- 
"  try  from  her  ftation  in  the  world,  enflaving 
"  her  to  the  fear  of  France  and  the  love  of 
"  Spain,  —  they  have  loft  thirteen  provinces 
"  and  three  millions  of  people,  IN  AT- 

*'    TEMPTING   AN    IMPOSSIBILITY." 


May  8,  1779. 


For 


DEMOCRATICUS.  135 


For  the  PUBLICK  ADVERTISER. 


the  12th  of  lad  January,  a  letter  with 
the  fignature  Lucius,  addrefled  to  Sir  W. 
Howe,  appeared  in  the  Publick  Advertifer. 
~^On  the  3d  of  the  prefent  June,  Agricola* 
appears  in  the  fame  paper,  addrefling  him- 
felf  alfo  to  Sir  W.  Howe,  with  the  fame  confi- 
dence of  affertion,  in  the  fame  inflated  ftyle, 
and  in  precifely  the  fame  degree  as  his  Cale- 
donian predeceflbr,  mercilefs  both  to  Sir 
William  and  the  publick  ;  for  he  alfo  writes 
four  columns,  and  expefts  they  (hall  be 
read;  full  of  the  fame  falfehoods  and  the 
fame  illiberal  language, 

Whether  fuch  circumftance  of  famenefs 
be  fufficient  to  identify  the  writer  of  both 
thefe  compofitions,  or  whether  the  fimilar 
bitternefs  of  the  dreams  may  not  be  traced  to 
the  fame  fountain-head  through  different 
channels,  will  appear  not  unworthy  the 
reader's  confideration,  when  he  recollects 
the  original  principle  of  the  parliamentary 

inquiry. 


136  DEMOCRATICUS. 

inquiry.  Perfonal  propriety  of  conduft,  as 
to  arraigning  or  defending  perfonal  charac- 
ter, became  a  real  objecl:  of  publick  atten- 
tion, when  from  its  relation  to  publick  men 
it  produced  effects  fo  important  to  the  ftate. 
Parliament  did  accordingly,  in  defpight  of 
the  power  that  ufually  controuls  it,  admit 
Sir  William  Howe's  claim  to  a  publick 
vindication  of  his  character.  It  is  not 
extraordinary  that  the  vindication  of  truth 
fhould  produce  much  collateral  advan- 
tage to  the  publick,  and  much  mifchief  to 
minifters.  Such  has  certainly  been  the  effe6l 
of  the  prefent  inquiry;  and  it  cannot  be 
wondered  at,  perhaps  it  is  excufable  on 
principles  of  felf-defence,  that  men  endan- 
gered by  the  difcovery  of  truth  and  the  vin>- 
dication  of  honour,  mould  now  refort  for 
protection  to  calumny  and  falfehood.  But 
it  was  not  perhaps  quite  fo  juftifiable  to  have 
commenced  hoflilities  againft  their  general 
with  thefe  offenfive  meafures ;  unlefs  they 
be  juftified  on  the  amicable  ground  of  mo- 
defly  and  fagacity.  They  were  modefl 
enough  to  be  confcious  of  their  folly ;  and 
fufficiently  wife  to  forefee  its  misfortunes.  A 

fpecies 


DEMOCRATIC  ITS.  137 

fpecies  of  prudence  congenial  to  fuch  cha- 
racters, early  fuggefted  to  them  the  necefiity 
of  precautionary  malice.  They  endeavour- 
ed, therefore,  while  they  enjoyed  the  prefent 
fruits  of  their  crime,  to  alienate  their  rever- 
fion  of  the  punifhment ;  and  to  fecure  a  re- 
treat for  their  own  infamy  in  the  ruin  of 
others  reputation. 

But  the  interefts  of  our  miniflers  and  of 
the  publick  being  directly  oppofite,  this  ca- 
lumnious fyftem  fo  fafe  to  them,  is  exactly 
in  the  fame  proportion  dangerous  to  the 
country.— Being,  therefore,  of  the  utmoft 
publick  importance,  let  the  publick  furvey 
it  at  length.  It  is  the  more  worthy  their 
contemplation,  as  it  is  indeed  the  only  plan 
of  the  prefent  adminiftration,  which  feems 
to  have  been  attended  with  any  fuccefs. 

In  every  great  and  publick  queftion,  we 
mufl  refer  to  the  fatal  aera  of  thefe  times.  ' 
The  date  of  the  American  war  is  the  date  of 
every  publick  mifchief.  Befides  the  noto- 
rious and  incurable  calamities  it  has  entail- 
ed on  the  country,  this  peftilent  fpirit  of 
calumny  which  has  infe&ed  and  ahnoft  poi- 
foned  the  national  vigour,  feems  to  have 

iflued 


138  DEMOCRATICUS. 

iflued  from  the  fame  fource.  In  other  wars, 
and  under  other  counfels,  the  counfellor 
and  the  commander  of  the  publick  force 
fhared  its  misfortune,  or  fympathifed  in 
its  fuccefs.  The  head  and  the  hand  united 
in  one  great  purpofe ;  and  valour  effected 
what  wifdom  planned  and  confidence  con- 
ducted. If  difafters  difappointed,  or  necef- 
fary  difficulties  thwarted  the  fervice,  they 
were  juftly  eftimated  by  an  honourable  mi- 
nifter  and  a  generous  people.  General 
Wolfe's  almoft  defperate  diftrefs  and  choice 
of  difficulties,  were  felt  and  acknowledged 
at  home  with  the  fame  magnanimity  of  can- 
dour that  afterwards  bore  ample  teftimony  to 
the  glory  of  his  condu6l ;  a  conduct  which  he 
was  the  more  incited  to  purfue,  from  confi- 
fidence  in  the  guardian  of  his  fame,  from 
fympathy  with  the  magnanimous  flatefman 
who  then  prefided  in  the  counfels  of  the 
flate.— In  the  prefent  war,  under  the  pre- 
fent  counfels,  what  is  the  lot  of  every  man 
who  attempts  the  publick  fervice  ? — Of 
thofe  very  men  whofe  fame  had  flourimed, 
whofe  merit  had  been  ratified,  under  the 
aufpices  of  Mr.  Pitt,  and  in  the  glories  of 

their 


DEMOCRATICU3.  139 

their  country? — Their  character,  rooted  in 
the  confidence  of  the  people,  calls  them  in- 
to publick  command  in  fpite  of  the  people's 
enemy  and  theirs :  and  then  are  feen  and 
felt  the  monftrous  effects  of  fuch  a  monfter 
in  politicks,  as  an  unpopular  adminiftration 
in  a  popular  government.  They  encounter 
the  diftruft  and  difcountenance  of  the  mini- 
fters  in  proportion  to  the  confidence  and 
favour  they  enjoy  from  the  people.  On 
the  fame  fcale,  the  malice  of  office  rifes  from 
treachery  to  violence,  till  at  lad  all  the  art 
and  power  of  the  governors  is  openly  exer- 
cifed  againft  the  beft  fervants  of  govern- 
ment. The  hardieft  and  moft  veteran  re- 
putations can  fcarcely  withftand  the  calum- 
nies of  the  cabinet.  The  moft  valued  and 
honoured  lives  of  the  time,  that  have  been 
often  hazarded  againft  the  foreign  enemy, 
are  aflfailed  by  the  domeftick  foes  of  their 
country.  Failure  of  fuccefs  is  charged  to 
the  men  whofe  valour  and  conduct  would 
have  fucceeded,  if  fuccefs  had  been  poflible 
under  fuch  counfels  ;  and  the  charge  is  fup- 
ported  by  every  invention  that  malice  and 
guilt  can  di&ate.  The  glory  which  our 

commanders 


140  DEMOCRATICUS. 

commanders  have  fnatchecTfrom  the  midfl 
of  the  difficulties  and  dangers  which  fuch 

o 

counfels  had  involved  them  in,  is  fullied  by 
the  miniflers  and  their  minions,  who  would 
belye  it  into  difgrace. — When  Lord  Howe, 
with  a  much  inferior  force  to  the  enemy, 
oppofed  and  foiled  them,  and  by  a  feries  of 
conduct  and  abilities  that  added  even  to  his 
character,  faved  the  army  and  the  hopes  of 
the  ftate,  he  is  cenfured  in  parliament  by 
Governor  John/lone.  When  Admiral  Kep- 
pel,  by  an  effort  of  courage  fignal  even  in 
him,  faved  the  dominion  of  the  fea  to  Eng- 
land, by  correcting  the  blunders  of  admini- 
flration  ;  and  when  on  return  to  port,  having 
at  laft  acquired  an  equal  force,  he  defeated 
the  enemy ;  Lord  Mulgrave  and  Lord  Sand- 
wich deny  the  praife  of  his  return,  and  the 
fact  of  his  victory :  and  under  their  inftant 
fanction,  their  friend,  Sir  Hugh  Pallifer, 
inftitutes  five  capital  charges  againft  him. 

It  is  difguflful  to  decency,  and  (hocking 
to  honour,  to  dwell  upon  fuch  inftances. 
To  enumerate  all  that  might  be  adduced, 
would  be  to  tranfcribe  the  whole  life  and 
'converfation  of  our  minifters3  and  all  their 

followers, 


DEMOCRATICUS.  141 

followers,  for  the  laft  four  years.    Lord  Chat- 
ham refented  fuch  bafenefs  with  an  indigna- 
tion fuitable  to  the  fympathy  of  honour  that 
warmed  his  mind. — "But  minijlers  cenfure 
'•"  General  Gage  for  his  inactivity  ! — Let  them 
i!  cenfure  him.   It  becomes  their  juftice  and 
' '  their  honour.  My  Lords,  it  is  a  prudent  and 
"  a  neceffary  inaction  : — but  it  is  a  miferable 
"  fituation,  where  difgrace  is  prudence,  and 
"  where  it  is  neceffary  to  be  contemptible." 
— Such  indeed  is  the  mifery  of  fituation  to 
which  every  man  devotes  himfelf,   who  un- 
dertakes publick  truft  under  fuch  minifters. 
If  they   left   the   perfons   they   employ, 
merely  to  ftruggle  with  the  difficulties  inci- 
dent to  the  employment  which  their  folly 
dictates,  the  danger  were  then  almdft  fuffi- 
cient  to  deter  any  man  who  had  the  anti- 
quated ambition  of  a  Decius  or  a  Curtius. 
But  when, — I  beg  leave  to  repeat  it,  for  it 
is  the  crying  fin  of  the  times,— when  every 
fpecies  of  private  and  publick  calumny  is 
fed  by  minifters  againft  all  thofe  whom  they 
employ,  becaufe  they  do  not  approve  ab- 
furd  meafures,  or  execute  impoffible  ones,—* 
it  would  be  romantick  beyond  Roman  ex^ 

ample 


DEMOCRATICUS. 

ample  to  devote  life  and  honour  in  fuch  a 
caufe.— Decorum  pro  patrid  mori;  but  love 
of  country  can  never  fuperfede  love  of 
honour:  arid  the  mofl  rigid  devotee  to 
patriotifm  would  hardly  fubmit  to  be  facri- 
ficed  at  the  fhrine  of  Nemefis  by  the  hands 
of  Therfites. 

So  much  for  the  perfonatity  againjl  cha- 
raffer,  which  Lucius  and  Agricola,  and  all 
their  tribe,  exhibit  by  order  of  minifters. 
It  is  of  little  moment  to  the  publiek  who 
they  are,  if  they  be  aware  what  they  are? 
Publiek  indignation  will  probably  be  equally 
ilrong,  whether  they  be  one  and  the  fame ; 
or  whether,  inftead  of  another  poftfcript  to 
Sir  John  Dalrymple's  ftate  papers,  Agricola 
be  traced  to  the  venomous  den  tfCalypfo. — 
"  Oui  bavium  non  odit,  amet  tua  carmina 
mcevi." 

DEMOCRATES. 

June  9," ^1779, 

A  few  of  the  grofs  mifreprefentations,  and 
aflertions  contrary  to  faft,  with  which  thofe 
papers  abound,  fhall  be  expofed  in  another 
ktter. 


TO 


DEMOCRATICUS. 


TO  THE 

PRINTER  of  the  PUBLICK  ADVERTISER. 
SIR, 

EVIDENCE  of  Sir  W.  Howe's  condua 
of  the  American  war  being  now  before  the 
publick,  as  well  as  evidence  of  the  counfels 
at  home  approving  it  from  firfl  to  laft, 
and  ratifying  the  whole  with  the  fan&ion 
w  of  his  Majefty's  ftrongeft  approbation;" 
it  would  be  impertinent  to  tranfcribe  the 
fa&s  and  proof  which  every  reader  will  find 
there ;  and  it  would  be  equally  abfurd  and 
unfair  to  folicit  his  judgment  to  any  other 
conclufion  than  what  they  muft  produce. 
Let  them  be  fairly  confidered  and  canvafled. 
Let  no  man  pronounce  without  having  read 
them ;  and  let  him  not  read  without  due 
attention,  as  well  to  the  intrinfick  force  of 
the  teftimony,  as  to  the  credibility  or  com- 
petency of  the  witnefles.  And  in  the  latter 
confiderations,  let  him  recollect  that  every 

circumftance 


144  DEMOCRATICUS. 

circumftance  of  themfelves  and  their  fitua- 
tion  is  involved ; — their  rank,  their  charac- 
ter, their  particular  departments  of  office 
and  of  fervice ;  their  profeffional  (kill  to 
form  general  judgment,  and  their  perfonai 
opportunities  to  acquire  aclual  knowledge ; 
and  above  all,  their  particular  circumftance 
as  to  any  interefl  whatever  that  might  warp 
teflimony, — either  in  having  received  any 
recent  boon,  or  actually  receiving  and  ex- 
pecting the  continuance  of  any  benefit,  from 
any  of  the  perfons  by  whom  they  are  called 
to  give  evidence. — Let  all  the  merits  of 
things  and  perfons  be  exactly  examined; — 
and  the  parties  who  folicited  and  gained  the 
inquiry,  in  contempt  of  every  fubterfuge 
and  artifice  of  their  adverfary,  cannot  fear 
the  final  concurrence  of  the  juftice  of  their 
country  with  the  honourable  fan£lion  they 
originally  received,  derived  to  them  from 
the  fountain  of  honour  itfelf ;  however  the 
ftream  may  have  been  fince  polluted. 

But  juftice  is  imperfect,  if  only  innocence 
be  acquitted,  or  merit  rewarded.  The  fword 
has  its  function  as  well  as  the  balance ;  and 
guilt  muft  be  pum'fhed,  Not,  however,  in 

this 


DEMOCRATICUS.  145 

this  inftance,  according  to  the  old,  and,  in 
genera],  the  juft  rule,—" Arte  perire  fud" 
Thefe  artifices  of  difgrace  are  fuperior  to  re- 
taliation. No  more  can  be  feared  from  in- 
famy, where  dishonour  has  already  buried 
her  fling.  But  other  punifhments,  and  to 
fome  minds  more  fenfible  punimments  than 
difgrace,  await  the  publick  delinquent :— Pu- 
nifhments  which  the  refentment  of  the  peo- 
ple muft  foon  inflict  on  the  authors  of  their 
calamities* 

The  prime  author,  for  he  will  not  con- 
fent  to  be  called  the  prime  minifter,  of  his 
country's  ruin,  I  hope  will  permit  me  now 
and  then  to  communicate  to  him  fome  of 
the  caufes  of  that  refentment,  towards  pre- 
paring his  mind  for  its  certain  confequences. 
This  I  (hall  do  with  the  freedom  of  a  man 
who  loves  the  people,  and  does  not  fear  the 
minifter,  even  though  his  power  were  per- 
manent. But  his  Lordfhip  knows  that  ene- 
mies need  not  fear  him  whom  friends  de- 
fpife. 

DEMOCRATES. 
July  7 >  1779- 

VOL.  r.  L  For 


146  DEMOCRATICUS. 

For  the  PUBLICK  ADVERTISER. 

To  the  PRIME  MINISTER. 
MY  LORD, 

JL  ERMIT  an  attentive  admirer  to  offer 
you  His  congratulations  on  the  event  which 
has  at  lafl  occurred,  the  favourite  objeS  of 
your  indolence  and  your  fenfibility, — your 
difmiffion  from  daily  labour  and  daily  dif- 
grace.  You  know,  my  Lord,  that  I  mean 
the  prorogation  of  parliament ;  for  you  feel 
that  I  defcribe  it  truly. — But  you  are  fur- 
prifed  that  the  people,  or  a  friend  of  the 
people,  mould  congratulate  you  on  any 
fuccefs  of  any  wifh  of  yours !— We  are  a 
generous  enemy,  my  Lord,  and  will  expound 
to  you  this  perilous  aenigma  ;  of  which,  like 
GEdipus,  you  are  yourfelf  the  theme  and 
the  conditioned  viftim.  Your  moft  danger- 
ous foe,  and  therefore  the  object  of  publick 
congratulation,  is  Lord  North.  It  is  with 

him, 


DEMOCRATICUS.  147 

him,  my  Lord,  that  the  people  of  England 
confpire  againfl  the  minifter.  It  is  in  his 
wifh  that  your  avowed  opponents  concur ; 
becaufe  they  know  his  difpofition  fatal  to 
your  power :  and  they  rejoice  to  confign 
you  folely  to  his  difpofal. 

While  parliament  continued  to  fit,  you 
attended  to  fome  duty  in  fpite  of  yourfelf. 
"  The  MACE  inexorable  and.  the  torturing 
hour— called  you  to  penance:'  The  conftant 
debate  returned,  and  you  rolled  to  it,  and 
through  it,  with  the  blind  mechanifm  of  a 
man  that  walks  in  his  deep,  and  the  pain 
that  he  feels  on  being  awakened. — When 
parliament  is  prorogued,  what  (hall  fave 
you  from  the  precipice?  Your  lethargy 
returns  and  prevails.  You  do  nothing ; 
and  you  fuffer  every  thing. 

If  any  doubt  could  remain  on  the  fate  of 
fuch  a  minifter  left  to  himfelf,  the  hiftory 
of  your  militia  will  remove  it.  Let  us 
gratefully  recoiled  the  political  juftice  of 
that  fcene,  in  which  you  fo  fuccefsfully 
plotted  your  own  tragi-comic  cataftrophe. 
It  is  almoft  too  ludicrous  to  be  gravely 
treated ;  and  yet  it  may  be  too  ferious  in 
L  2  its 


148  DEMOCRATICUS. 

Us  confequence,  for  ridicule  or  contempt 
It  is  impoflible  not  to  laugh  at  FALSTAFF, 
buffeted  by  his  own  friends,  and  outwitted 
in  his  own  knavery ;  but  indignation  checks 
our  mirth,  when  we  remember  that  the  fat 
man  has  milled  the  prince,  and  pillaged  the 
exchequer. 

When  the  Spaniard  had  denounced  the 
war  which  you  had  not  even  dreamed  of, 
but  which  every  man  in  the  ufe  of  his  fenfes 
did  certainly  forefee,— in  the  imminence  of 
invafion  to  which  you  and  your  accomplices 
have  betrayed  our  coails,— the  defperate 
diilrefs  of  the  publick  fufpended  for  a  mo- 
ment all  inference  of  experience;  and  the 
publick  defence,  the  care  of  our  exigence 
as  a  country,  was  unanimoufly  confided  to 
you.  Then  flood  forth  the  prime  minuter 
of  England,  in  all  his  impotence.  You  had 
not  a  fmgle  idea,— not  one  refource  in 
yourfelf.  In  the  humblenefs  of  your  own 
phrafc,  and  of  your  own  fpirit,  my  Lord, 
you  picked  up  the  crumbs  from  the  eloquence 
of  your  adverfary.  You  caught  a  curfory 
hint  of  the  poffible  propriety  of  doubling 
the  militia.  Without  inquiry  or  precau- 
tion 


DEMOCRAT  1C  US.  1.JQ 

tion  towards  giving  ftrength  or  poflibility  of 
tffeft,  you  fell  upon  it  at  once  as  your  fole 
fupport ;  and  you  cruihed  it  to  the  ground. 
And  how  have  you  defended  your  failure  ? 
As  ungratefully,  as  meanly,  my  Lord ;  you 
juftify  your  impolicy  by  your  plagiarifm. 
"  Mr.  Fox  propofed  fomdhing  like  it!" 
Yes,  my  Lord;  and  (b  did  the  Duke  of 
Richmond,  in  another  afiembly,  which  you 
think  it  decent  to  rail  at. — You  forgot  to 
add  to  your  exculpation,  that  they  would 
have  conducted  their  propofition  in  a  man- 
ner Jbmething  unlike  that,  in  which  -you 
neglected  and  fquandered  yours.  Some  vi- 
gour and  activity,  at  leafl,  would  have  been 
found  in  their  exertions.  But  I  do  not  re- 
collect that  even  Mr.  Wedderburne  cele- 
brated thofe  qualities  in  you.— The  mod 
callous  of  your  friends,  who  have  longeft 
known  you  and  your  fubterfuges,  were 
painfully  aftonifhed  at  this.  That  a  firll 
minifler  of  England  mould  defend  himfelf 
on  the  difappointment  of  a  great  publick 
meafure,  "becaufe  a  gentleman  adverfe  to 
him  had  propqfcd  fomething  Like  it.r— But 


enough  of  fuch  littlenefs. 


What 


150  DEMOCRATICUS. 

What  is  the  fituation  of  the  kingdom  ac- 
cording to  your  argument,    and  in  confe- 
quence  of  your  conduct  ?— That  meafure  of 
doubling  the  militia,  for  the  vain  agitation 
of  which,  you  protracted  the  fitting  of  par- 
liament a  fortnight  beyond  the  time  you  had 
argued  and  decided  by  your  majority  to  be 
necefTary  for  it  to  rife  in  ;-^-that  meafure 
which  you  Urged  as  abfolutely  eflential  to 
publick  fafety  \-that  meafure,  is  now  totally 
rejected !     The  time  which  you  ftated  to  be 
indifpenfably  critical  and  precious,  you  to^ 
tally  loft !     And  the  kingdom,  according  to 
your  firft  argument  and  your  laft  exprefs 
confeflion,  extorted  from  you  by  Sir  George 
Young,  when  you  pronounced  your  funeral- 
oration  on  your  departed  militia,— I  appeal 
to  the  memory  and  aftonifhment  of  every 
man  that  heard  you, — "  is  left  without  any 
defence  that  can  be  relied  on  /" 

Such  has  been  the  fuccefs,  fuch  is  the 
fafety,  which  the  prime  minifter's  unembar- 
raffed  wifdom  and  uncontrouled  power  have 
eflablifhed  for  the  publick. — But  on  that 
obfolete  fubjecl  of  the  publick  intereft  I  have 

digrefied   too   long.      I  return,  my   Lord, 

to 


DEMOCRATICUS.  l$l 

to  the  only  confideration  that  can  keep 
you  awake.  Let  us  examine  what  you 
have  gained  for  yourfelf  by  this  indul- 
gence from  your  enemies  ; — how  you  have 
conciliated  them  by  the  (kill,  or  confirmed 
your  friends  by  the  magnanimity  of  your 
conducl. 

In  that  aweful  hour  when  your  country 
was  to  be  informed  through  you  of  the 
acceffion  of  Spain  to  the  war,  which  under 
her  prefent  counfels  {he  has  fcarcely  fuftain- 
ed  againft  America  and  France  ;  in  that 
perilous  moment  when  every  man,  not  cal- 
lous for  his  country,  deeply  felt  what  you 
could  truly  defcribe,  ({  When/'  in  your  own 
words,  "we  were  fo  burthened,  fo  loaded, 
(t  fo  embarraflfed  with  difficulties  and  intri- 
"  cacies, — fuch  as  we  have  never  before 
"  known* T — How  did  your  feelings  corre- 
fpond  with  your  understanding  ?  Or  "  what 
"  was  the  confident  decency  of  your  con- 
"  duel?"  Were  you  imprefled  with  the 
•magnitude  of  the  publick  danger  ?  Did  you 
enter  on  its  grave  difcufliori  ? — Pid  you 

*  Lord  North,  verbatim,  in  debase  on  his  militia-bill. 

prepare 


152  CEMOCRATICUS; 

prepare  for  firm  defence  againft  it,  as  if  you 
knew  that  your  country  was  in  the  forlorn 
hope?  No,  my  Lord.  You  chofe  that 
happy  opportunity  to  indulge  your  mirth. 
You  laughed  at  the  reprefentatives  of  the 
people;  while  you  convinced  them  they 
were  the  dupes  of  their  own  credulity,  and 
victims  of  the  ignorance  or  the  treachery  of 
their  rulers. 

It  is  not  my  prefent  purpofe  to  inquire 
into  Nero's  enjoyment  of 'the  ruin  he  had 
fpread.  Roman  flory  better  tells  us,  how 
good  men  felt  for  the  calamities  which  they 
would 'have  prevented  and  could  not  fur- 
vive.  The  floic  was  melted  in  the  patriot ; 
and  CATO  wept  for  his  country.  The  tears 
of  your  hyfterick,  my  Lord,  were  referved 
for  another  fubjecl. — But  I  afk  pardon.  Any 
allufion  to  that  fubjecl  efcaped  me.  I  did 
not  mean, — I  hope  no  man  can  be  fo  bafe,— 
to  ridicule  the  fond  weaknefs  of  a  father  who 
has  loft  his  child  :  but  every  man,  my  Lord, 
will  relent  the  infulting  fwagger  of  a  minilter 
who  has  ruined  his  country. 

Your  feelings  of  the  publick  calamity 
were  well  fucccedccl  'by 'your  care  of  the 

public 


-DEMOCRATICUS. 

publick  defence.     You  confefs,  you  argue, 
in    parliament,    as    prime  minifter    of  the 
country,  that  the  publick  danger  is  fuch  as 
zee  had  never  before  known !  You  introduce 
a  plan  which  you   {late  on  the    moment, 
(never  having  thought  of  it  before)  to  be 
eflential    to    publick    fafety.      Many  men 
judge  differently,  as  is  natural,  on  a  new 
fubjecl:.      Alterations  are  fuggefted.      You 
think  they  may  be  very  proper;  for  you 
know    nothing    of    the    matter.      Further 
changes  are  propofed.     They  are  alfo  very 
proper,— and  for  the  fame  reafon.     When 
the    annihilation  of  the  whole   meafure  is 
recommended,    '•"  You  have   no  objection,  if 
gentlemen  think  it  necejjary"     At  laft,  after 
declaring  and  denying  your  opinion  four 
times  in  four  hours,  you  have  the  jufl  mor- 
tification of  feeing  your  firft  idea  refumed, 
and  fent  up  to  the  Lords  to  difgrace  you. 
For  there  the  fubjecl  was  underftood  ;  and 
it  appeared  lately  that  you  are  not  wholly 
unknown    to    their    Lordfhips.      The  elor 
quence  of  LORD  SIIELBURNE  has  left  you 
on  record.     The  filence  of  the  whole  houfe 
confented  to. the  fentcnce.     And  you  cannot 

wonder, 


154  PEMOCRATICUS. 

wonder,  my  Lord,  that  not  a  voice  was 
heard  againft  it.  The  nobles  there,  how- 
ever differing  in  fome  political  fentiraents, 
retain  a  common  fenfe  of  their  dignity,  and 
the  fpirit  of  their  fituation.  But  every  fpark 
of  fpirit,  of  dignity,  and  honour,  muft  revolt 
from  the  meannefs  that  fubmits  to  all  the 
odium  of  office,  without  any  of  its  authority 
or  effeft. 

•  In  times  of  rebellion,  it  was  in  common 
obfervation,  that  the  traitor  was  hated, 
though  the  treafon  was  loved.  You,  my 
Lord,  perhaps  ftand  acquitted  from  crimes 
fo  exalted.  But  levelling  the  argument  to 
your  officiaWituation,  it  may  be  prudent  to 
confider  that  the  tools  of  power  are  firft 
defpifed,  and  at  laft  thrown  afide,  by  thofe 
who  have  employed  them.  Recolleft,  my 
Lord,  and  feel  if  you  can,  the  real  relation 
in  which  you  (land  to  a  great  connection  of 
power,  under  which  you  have  been  prime 
minifter.  The  degree  of  refpeft  that  you 
receive  from  the  dignity  of  the  Lord  Prefi- 
dent,  cannot  now  be  ambiguous  even  to 
your  infenfibility.  Lord  Weymouth  tells 
the  fecret  every  evening.  Mr.  Rigby  enter- 
tains 


DEMOCRATICUS,  155 

tains  the  Houfe  of  Commons  with  it ;  and 
no  wonder  that  he  thinks  it  an  excellent 
joke;  for  he  gets  both  the  laugh  and  the 
vote  on  his  fide.  But  indeed,  my  Lord, 
your  perfonal  eflimation  feems  alike  in  all. 
J  do  not  fpeak  of  the  rabble  without  doors, 
who  fpeak  only  as  they  feel, — the  cqffee-houfe 
mobs,  as  your  Lordfhip  calls  them  in  juft 
retaliation  ;• — I  appeal  to  every  man  who 
fees  the  ftatue  on  the  pedeftal.  The  higher 
the  ground  you  attempt  to  take  in  parlia- 
ment,  the  lefs  dimenfion  of  power  you  ex- 
hibit; and  if  the  bufmefs  be  arduous  indeed, 
you  are  elevated  into  nothing. 

From  numberlefs  inftances  of  infignifi- 
cance,  and  of  danger,  confequently,  in  which 
you  (land  when  left  to  your  own  weaknefs, 
I  have  felefted  the  defeat  of  your  militia, 
and  your  confeffed  impotence  of  every  na- 
tional refource,  becaufe  it  is  the  mofi;  inftant 
in  its  confequence.  I  would  warn  you,  in 
fober  fmcerity,  of  your  imminent  peril. 
You  have  not  quite  benumbed  the  country. 
The  people  of  England  have  feeling,  my 
Lord,  though  they  have  not  forefight.  The 
hour  of  trial,  perhaps  of  ruin,  is  at  hand. 

The 


DEMOCRATICUS. 

The  legions  of  France,  which  are  at  this 
moment  arrayed  on  their  coafts  in  greater 
force  than  the  channel  ever  faw, — when  the 
united  navies  of  France  and  Spain  fhall 
fwoop  at  ours,  difmantled  of  its  beft  flrength, 
- — when  all  the  war  fhall  pour  into  this 
country, —  and  all  its  miferies  deface  and 
defolate  it,-— then,  my  Lord,  how  fhall  you 
appeafe  the  late-roufed  fpirit  of  the  people  ? 
Thus,  I  imagine,  you  will  foothe  them,  and 
fave  yourfelf.  "  I  was  prime  minifler  of  the 
•"  Britifli  empire.  I  had  no  information  of 
"  the  publick  danger.  I  would  not  liften  to 
"  thofe  who  had  certain  knowledge  of  it. 
"  When  it  burft  upon  the  country,  I  laughed 
*f  at  it.  The  people,  however,  were  almoft  as 
"•  infatuated  as  myfelf ;  for  they  unani- 
"  moufly  confided  the  care  '  of  the  ftate  to 
"  me. — I  took  no  care  ;  I  prepared  no 
"  publick  defence.  I  borrowed  fomdhing 
"  like  a  hint  from  other,?,  of  what  appears 
"  to  be  a  conftitutional  defence  for  the 
"  country ;  and  therefore,  perhaps  it  wither- 
fe  ed  in  my  hands.  I  confulted  no  man 
"  who  could  inftrucl:  me  in  it,  towards 
."  giving  it  life  or  effecl ;  and  in  indolence 

"  and 


DEMOCRATICUS.  157 

f:  and  ignorance  it  became  nothing.  A  moft 
"  critical  period  of  time ;  part  of  which  I 
"  had  refufed  to  publick  juftice,  and  publick 
"  honour  ;  to  the  injured  characters  of  our 
"  higheft  commanders ;  whom,  therefore,  I 
"  have  banifiied  from  the  commonwealtli 
"  in  the  hour  of  her  danger  : — that  time  I 
**'  employed  in  preventing  the  poflibility  of 
"  any  meafure  being  taken  for  the  publick 
"  fafety. — And,  in  fine,  as  you  fee,  and  feel, 
"  my  countrymen, — and  as  I  honeftly  con- 
"  feffed  to  fome  country -gentlemen  who  had 
"  a  ftrange  anxiety,  on  the  fubjecl:, — /,  your 
"  prims  minifter,  left  the  kingdom  without 
"  any  defence  that  could  be  relied  on.'' 

DEMOCRATES, 


July  20,  1779. 


THE     WHIG. 

A    SERIES    OF   LETTERS, 


ADDRESSED 


TO  THE  PEOPLE  OF  ENGLAND. 

£Publimed  in  Mr.  ALMON'S  Morning  Paper,  The  London 
Courant,  in  the  Months  of  November  and  December 
*779»  and  in  the  Months  of  January  and  March  1780.] 


THE    WHIG. 


(No.  i.) 

"  I  will  call  on  my  country  loudly  and  conftantlyS* 

LORD  CHATHAM. 

i  Truft  that  neither  my  name  nor  princi- 
ples are  obfolete ;  though  I  am  aware  that 
the  name  is  not  in  fuch  refpeft,  nor  the 
principles  ytt  fo  aftive,  as  at  the  period  of 
the  Revolution.  But  if  I  did  not  feel  my- 
felf  warranted,  in  the  hope  that  I  addrefs  a 
powerful  body  of  my  countrymen,  when  I 
call  on  my  brethren  of  The  Good  Old  Caufe, 
I  would  not  wafte  my  labour  on  a  defpe- 
rate  theme,  nor  profane  the  doclrine  of  li- 
berty, by  difcufling  it  to  unanimous  (laves. 

Whiggifm  we  have  feen  triumphant  in 
America.  Whiggifm  we  fee  preparing  her 

VOL.  i.  M  triumph 


l62  THE    WHIG. 

triumph  in  Ireland.  Let  us  hope,  let  us 
prove,  that  her  facred  flame  is  not  extinct  in 
England. 

.If  a  (lave  of  power  fhrink  from  the  men- 
tion of  The  Good  Old  Caufe,  or,  in  the 
callous  impudence  of  fervitude,  prefume  to 
vilify  it,  I  pity  his  wretchednefs,  I  defpife 
his  infolence ;  but  I  would  punifh  his  trea- 
fon  to  the  conftitution. 

The  Good  Old  Caufe  is  the  caufe  of  the 
People.  Simple  and  obvious  is  this  conli- 
deration  ;  that  the  caufe  of  the  People  isfuc- 
cefsful  exaclly  in  proportion  to  the  energy  of 
their  original  power.  Such  energy,  acting 
through  the  claffes  of  the  conftitution  which 
the  People  made,  preferves  their  liberty  as 
a  People,  and  their  power  as  a  Nation ; 
for  it  watches  integrity,  and  provides  ability, 
in  the  perfons  they  permit-to  adminifter  their 
affairs.  Various  and  intricate,  on  the  con- 
trary, are  the  means  conducive  to  their 
caufe,  ambition,  avarice,  or  (loth,  would 
enflave,  impoverifh,  or  lofe  their  country. 
Rectitude  has  only  one  direction,  but  the 
obliquity  of  treachery  is  infinite. 

The 


THE    WHIG.  163 

The  direftion  in  which  the  people  of  this 
country  aft,  when  they  aft  rightly,  is, 
through  the  parliament  which  they  have 
clefted,  to  the  throne  which  they  have  raif* 
ed.  If  wickednefs  or  weaknefs  be  found  in 
the  counfels  or  counfellors  of  the  crown,  par- 
liament is  the  inflrument  appointed  to  punim, 
or  to  difmifs ;  but  if  the  inflrument  fail, 
the  land  will  exert  her  native  ftrength.  The 
people,  of  original  right  as  a  free  people, 
will  vindicate  the  country,  correft  their  parli- 
ament, and  reform  their  throne.  I  know  this 
was  not  the  law  of  Jeffries,  I  know  it  is  not 
the  law  of  modern  Weftminfler ;  but  I  know 
it  is  the  right  reafon  of  the  conftitution.  I 
would  not  violate  the  manes  of  the  Revolu- 
tion, by  quoting  Locke  againft  Lord  Mans- 
field, even  if  it  were  a  queftion  of  argument; 
but  human  authority  or  reafoning,  however 
illuftrious  or  forcible,  were  fuperfluous  to 
demonflrate  what  God  hath  written  in  our 
hearts. 

Publick  guilt  being  capable  of  fuch  diver- 

/  fification,  it  is  evidently  the  duty  of  publick 

virtue  to  exercife  various  attention  to  the 

feveral  aflaults  that  may  be  made  by  power, 

M  2  and 


164  THE  WHIG. 

and  will  be  ever  made  in  fome  degree,  againfl 
the  interefls  of  the  community.  Innumera- 
ble are  the  modes  in  which  hypocrify  may 
deceive,  tyranny  opprefs,  corruption  de- 
bauch, or  folly  fquander ;  any  one  of  which 
crimes,  unchecked,  would  run  to  general 
ruin.  But  if,  in  monftrous  and  unheard-of 
conspiracy,  they  mould  all  unite  againfl  the 
liberty  and  glory  of  a  country,  throughout 
all  the  betrayed  trufls  of  the  publick ;  a&ive 
indeed  ought  to  be  the  exertion  of  the  peo- 
ple againfl  fuch  danger.  The  Whig  fpirit, 
exifling  in  the  country,  mufl  collecl;  and  co- 
operate. If  comprefled  in  fmall  compafs, 
its  fpring  will  be  the  flronger.  The  publick 
traitor  may  infult  fallen  Liberty  with  the 
reproach  that  all  her  fpirit  is  extinguifhed ; 
that  no  publick  virtue  remains ;  that  every 
man  is  bafe  and  wicked  as  himfelf ;  but  the 
reproach  will  operate  as  it  ought.  It  will 
give  vigour  to  ftrength,  and  activity  to  re- 
fcntment.  It  will  fharpen  publick  fpirit, 
and  point  the  virtue  of  the  patriot  with  the 
honour  of  the  man. 

Vigilance   mould   be   in    proportion    to 
danger.     If  we  have  been  remifs,   and  if 

publick 


THE  WHIG.  165 

publick  danger  have,  in  confequence,  in- 
creafed,  let  us  now  double  our  watch,  and 
redeem  our  negligence. 

In  England  every  man  is  a  politician. — • 
This  maxim  hath  incurred  ridicule,  only 
from  the  imperfection  of  its  obfervance.  It 
is  exa&ly  constitutional,  and  ftridly  true  in 
theory ;  but  it  becomes  ridiculous,  becaufe 
it  is  only  theoretical.  It  ought  to  be  de- 
monilrated  in  practice ;  and  then  it  would 
not  be  anfwered  with  a  laugh.  (f  The 
Britim  Conflitution,"  Lord  Bolingbroke 
well  fays,  "  is  the  bu/inefs  of  every  Briton." 

The  Britifh  Conftitution  hath  changed  its 
form,  and  is  lofmg  its  fpirit.  Some  magick 
has  metamorphofed  the  ancient  pyramid  into 
the  deformity  of  a  Chinefe  pagoda.  The 
beautiful  ftrength  of  its  order  is  gone ;  and 
we  now  tremble  for  the  narrowed  bafe ; 
opprefled  by  the  middle ;  with  monfters  at 
the  top  J 

How  to  recal  the  fpirit  that  hath  lied,  and. 
how  to  raife  that  which  remains ;  how  to 
reflore  external  (lability ;  and  by  what  bell 
means  to  purify  into  its  ancient  vigour  the 
interior  of  the  conftitution,  is  the  lufinefs. 

which 


l66  THE    WHIG. 

which  now  demands  the  active  vigilance  of 
all— for  the  danger  is  univerfal  and  immi- 
nent. 

As  a  member  of  the  publick  body,  I  offer 
to  my  country  all  my  exertion  towards  the 
publick  weal,  in  the  humble  but  laborious 
office  which  I  undertake.  It  is  humble; 
for  it  profefles  little  more  than  the  reprefen- 
tation  of  fa6l.  It  will  be  laborious ;  for  the 
endeavour  will  be  to  reprefent  the  mifchiefs 
of  the  times. 

It  is  not  eafy  to  felecl  from  multiplicity; 
but  in  guarding  againft  dangers,  foreign  and 
domeftick,  the  conduft  of  their  Reprefenta-, 
tives  in  Parliament  feems  to  challenge  the 
firft  and  inftant  attention  of  the  people  :  for 
it  is  the  malignity  of  this  enormous  mifchief, 
like  fcepticifm  in  religion,  that  it  fights  the 
forms  againft  the  fubftance.  Faith  is  above 
reafon ;  and  the  people  are  paramount  to 
their  fervants :  but  the  infidel  blafphemes 
in  very  regular  fyllogifms  ;  and  the  Minifter 
betrays  his  country  exactly  according  to 
order,  and  with  perfect  prefervation  of  every 
form  of  parliament.  Of  this,  the  publick 
(hall  have  damning  proof;— irrefragable 

proof j 


THE    WHIG.  167 

proof; — undeniable — except  by  Lord  North, 
—for  it  (hall  be  the  proof  of  FACT. 

KM.  1779. 


(  No.  2. ) 

Si/feet  res  ipfa  afptra  ejl;  fed  vos  non  timetis  earn. 
Immo  vcre  m&xumc  ;  fed  inertia  tt  mo/litia  animi, 
alius  alium  expettantes,  cunftamini,  videlicet  dm 
immortalibus  confijiy  qui  hanc  rempublicam  in 
maxumis  fcepe  pericuUs  fer-vavere. 

1HE  laft  Thurfday  exhibited  a  fpeftacle 
which  might  exercife  the  mod  curious  fpe- 
culation,  if  its  extraordinary  mifchief  did 
not  demand  fomething  more.  Let  my 
countrymen  briefly  contemplate  the  fact 
and  its  circumftance.  If  they  will  not 
cpen  their  eyes,  and  fee  its  monftrous  na- 
ture, they  muft  inflantly  feel  its  ruinous 
confequence. 

A  cer- 


l68  THE    WHIG. 

A  certain  fet  of  perfons  have,  for  many 
years,  been  entrufted  with  the  adminiftra- 
tion  of  publick  affairs  ;  and  certain  princi- 
ples of  government  have  been  purfued  by 
the  prince,  and  permitted  by  the  people. 
During  this  fyftem  of  men  and  meafures,  the 
publick  weal  has  fuffered  gradual,  but 
univerfal  decay.  Civil  difcords  were  kin^ 
died  in  the  empire,  which  the  miniflers  of 
the  ftate  had  neither  wifdom  to  reconcile, 
nor  vigour  to  fubdue.  Foreign  wars  threat- 
ened. The  miniflers  of  the  ftate  neither 
prevented  them  by  precaution,  nor  prepared 
any  adequate  ftrength  of  their  country  to 
encounter  them.  Invited  by  folly,  indo- 
lence, and  weaknefs,  the  enemies  of  Great- 
Britain  united  againft  her  with  the  countries 
fhe  had  loft  in  her  civil  diflentions.  The 
minifters  of  ftate  had  provided  no  alliance 
for  their  country ;  to  compenfate  the  lofs  of 
her  ancient  ftrength.  Thus  Great-Britain 
alone  was  involved  in  war  againft  the  moft 
powerful  monarchies  of  Europe,  and  the  In- 
dependent States  of  America.  A  general  cam- 
paign enfued,  in  which,  though  fhe  efcaped 
from  immediate  ruin  by  fignal  interpofitions 

of 


THE   WHIG.  169 

of  Providence,  (he  fuffered  fatal  lofies  and  in- 
delible difgrace.  Some  of  her  moft  valuable 
iflands  were  taken ;  the  fineft  armies  (he  had 
ever  raifed,  at  the  largeft  expence  (he  had  ever 
fuftained,  were  wafted  on  impoflible  fervice ; 
and  her  fleet  was  faved  only  by  flight  into 
her  own  harbours.  The  internal  mifchiefs 
that  daily  grew  under  the  minifters  of  the 
flate,  were  correfpondent  to  the  external 
calamities.  Ireland  was  famiftied,  and  in 
arms ;  Scotland  was  pampered  into  info- 
lence  and  tumult ;  and  England  teemed 
with  defperate  difcontent.  When  the  mini- 
fters of  ftate  had  conducted  publick  affairs 
to  this  fituation,  they  called  on  Parliament 
to  congratulate  the  King  on  the  bleflings  of 
his  reign,  and  to  recognife  the  wifdom  and 
fuccefs  of  their  adminiftration — and  Parlia- 
ment complied ! 

I  fubmitted  to  my  coutrymen,  in  my  laft 
paper,  that  the  conducl  of  their  reprefenta- 
tives  challenges  their  inftant  animadverfion. 
When  two  hundred  and  thirty-three  men 
are  found  to  aflert,  in  Parliament,  what  no 
man  out  of  it  will  gravely  maintain  in  com- 
mon converfation ;  it  will  be  mockery  of  the 

people 


THE    WHIG, 

people  any  longer  to  denominate  fuch  a 
body  the  reprefentative  of  the  nation ;  it 
will  be  bafenefs  in  the  people  any  longer  to 
endure  fuch  a. body,  without  effectual  ani- 
madverfion  and  thorough  reformation.  If 
any  one  man,  in  poffeflion  of  his  fenfes,  can 
be  (elected  from  the  community  ;  if  one  of 
the  two  hundred  and  thirty-three,  any  where 
but  within  the  walls  of  his  prifon ;  if  even 
the  obfequious  commit  who  reads  this  paper 
to  the  nodding  Prime  Minifter,  will  declare, 
without  a  blufh  or  a  fmile,  that  he  thinks 
him  or  his  aflbciates  in  power  adequate  to 
the  truft  of  the  flate ;  I  will  join  in  their 
praife.  If  fuch  a  man  can  be  found,  an- 
other miracle  will  follow— The  Whig  {hall 
concur  in  the  praife  of  the  prefent  miniflers, 
and  the  people  may  confent  to  rejoice  in 
their  administration. 

It  is  fit  that  the  people  mould  furvey,  again 
and  again,  this  unheard-of  abufe  in  govern- 
ment, fince  the  bloodied  aera  that  blots  the 
page  of  hiftory.  If  fuch  be  the  decided  con- 
trariety of  fentiment  between  two  hundred 
and  thirty-three  legiflators  of  England,  and 
every  individual  of  the  country ;  and  if  die 

body, 


THE    WHIG, 

body,  fo  oppofed  to  the  whole  people,  perfift 
in  delegating  the  whole  truft  of  the  ftate  to 
weak  or  wicked  men,  convicted  by  the  evi- 
dence of  fenfe  of  having  exhaufted  the  beft 
flrengthand  wealth  of  the  country,  and  urged 
by  mad  defpair  to  tear  wider  her  wounds,  even 
to  the  laft  drop  of  her  blood, — let  the  hifto- 
rian  of  fallen  empires  diftinguiih  if  he  can. 
Where  is  the  difference  in  calamitous  effecl 
between  the  Triumvirate  of  Rome,  and  a  ma- 
jority of  a  .H****  of  C******  ?— There  is 
yet  a  particular  difference  between  them,  he 
may  anfwer  truly,  as  much  to  be  lamented  as 
their  general  rcfemblance.  Two  of  the  Ro- 
man tyrants  paid  the  debt  of  their  tyranny. 
But  modern  times  have  not  yet  enforced  the 
demands  of  humanity  ;  and  the  inter tia  of 
the  people  feems  indifferent  to  an  O6lavius 
or  an  Auguftus. 

Befides  the  palpable  evidence  of  all  the 
facls  of  the  time,  which  demanded  the  ven- 
geance of  parliament  againft  the  authors, 
the  exprefs  confeflion  of  guilt  from  the  arch- 
culprit  will  demonftrate,  in  a  curious  point 
of  view,  the.juftice  of  the  tribunal  that  ac- 
quitted and  applauded  him.  Lord  North 

pleaded 


iy2  THE    WHIG. 

pleaded  guilty  to  the  prefent  Jlate  and  future 
danger  of  Ireland.  I  wifti  to  point  the  at- 
tention of  my  countrymen  to  this  aftonifh- 
ing  inftance  of  miniflerial  effrontery,  and 
parliamentary  acquiefcence.  The  Prime 
Minifter  of  the  State  faid,  on  the  firft  day 
of  the  prefent  feffion,  (f  That  he  did  not 
know  the  origin  of  the  diftrefs  of  Ireland ; 
and  that  he  could  not  apply  a  remedy  to  an 
unknown  diforder."  This  eventful  fubjecl; 
is  to  be  talked  of  towards  being  entered  on, 
and  papers  are  to  be  read  this  day  towards 
its  being  taken  into  confideration.  Let  us 
recollect  the  faft,  and  judge  of  the  Prime 
Minifter.  Ireland  has  been  groaning  un- 
der ruinous  diftreffes  fmce  the  commence- 
ment of  the  war  between  Minifters  and 
America.  The  fupprefiion  of  her  only  ex- 
port-manufaclure  feverely  wounded  her  little 
induftry,  and  almofl  ruined  her  few  manu- 
facturers. A  wicked  embargo  completed 
her  beggary  and  famine,  which  foon  grew 
univerfal  and  intolerable.  Such  was  the 
opportunity  of  circumflance  in  which  the 
Prime  Minifter  thought  it  wife  to  infult  a 
high-fpirited  people ;  to  deceive  them  with 

words. 


THE   WHIG.  173 

words,  and  to  incenfe  them  with  new  a&ual 
injuries.  Such  was  the  concurrence  of 
motives  on  which  he  thought  it  fafe  to  leave 
the  kingdom  of  Ireland  without  defence 
againft  an  invading  enemy. 

The  people  of  Ireland  were  exafperated 
by  their  wrongs  from  the  Englifh  Minifter, 
which  they  miftakenly  attributed  to  the 
Englifti  Nation  :  — they  unanimoufly  affo- 
ciate  againft  Englifh  manufactures : — they 
unanimoufly  difclaim  Englifh  law  :  —  the, 
people  affume  to  themfelves  the  prerogative 
power  of  the  fword,  of  which  the  Prime 
Mmifter  had  dive/led  the  King: — and  near 
fifty  thoufand  men  are  now  in  aftual  and 
perfecl  array  throughout  a  country  fmarting 
with  the  keeneft  fenfe  of  injury  ; — a  country 
unanimous  even  to  the  bench  of  their  empty 
Treafury,  that  nothing  (hort  of  a  FREE 
TRADE,  to  and  from  all  parts  of  the  world, 
and  fubjecl  to  no  reftraint  but  the  pleafure 
of  their  own  parliament,  can  redrefs  their 
wrongs,  or  relieve  their  diftrefs. 

And  now,  years  after  their  diftrefs  'grew 
ruinous,  the  Prime  Minifter  tells  the  Britifh 
Parliament,  "  he  knows  nothing  of  its  origin, 

and 


174 

and  can  apply  no  remedy." — -And  the  Britifh 
Parliament  ((hall  we  longer  call  it  the  Britifh 
Parliament?)  rejoice  in  the  blefiings  of  his 
Majefty's  reign,  and  applaud  the  wifdom  of 
his  Majefty's  Counfels  and  Counfellors  ! 

The  writer  of  this  paper  has  too  ftrong 
caufe  of  knowledge  that  the  friend/hip  of 
Ireland  is  defperate  to  this  country,  'if  the 
prefent  Counfels  and  Counfellors  of  the 
Crown  (hall  be  longer  permitted  by  the 
people.  He  fubjoins  what  *  he  has  felefted 
from  their  uniform  addreffes  to  their  Repre- 

*  "  We  are  therefore  confident  that  if  a  FREE  TRADE, 
"'  the  only  expedient  left  to  avert  the  impending  ruin  of 
"  this  country,  depended  onthcgoodnefs  and  wifdom  of  the 
"  King  and  the  Parliament  ot  Ireland,  that  event  would 
-"  immediately  take  place.  But  however  unconftitution- 
"  ally  the  prefent  reflraints  on  our  trade  were  originally 
**  impofed,  and  however  well  inclined  his  Majefly  to 
"  abolifh  them,  we  fear  he  cannot  effeft  this  wife  purpofe 
"  without  the  confent  of  the  Britifh  Parliament ;  a  body  to 
'•  whofe power  we  are  no  ftrangers,  but  with  whokjuftife 
"  we  are  totally  unacquainted  ;  and  we  likewife  fear  that 
"  the  confent  of  the  Britifh  Parliament  depends  on  the 
"  humour  of  the  Britijh  Mintjler,—a  charafleryet  unknown 
*'  to  the  confidence  or  gratitude  of  this  country." 

[Extract  from  *'  Unanimous  Addrefs,  &c.  of  the  county 
of  the  town  of  Carrickfergus  to  their  Reprefentatives." 
,  1779.] 

fentatives, 


THE    WHIG. 


fentativcs,  as  expreflive  of  the  determined 
fpirit  of  them  all. 

November  30,  17/ 


(No.  3.) 

The  King  can  do  no  Wrong. 

E  N  a  Prince  of  the  Houie  of 
Hanover  wears  the  Crown  of  Great-Britain, 
the  WHIG  is  not  afhamed  to  confefs  his 
prejudice.  He  would  prefume,  from  die 
former  Princes  and  principles  of  that  Houfe, 
to  the  prefent ;  and  his  predileftion  is  anx- 
ious to  believe,  in  the  full  extent  of  the 
maxim,  perfonal  as  well  as  political,  that  tJie 
King  can  do  no  wrong. 

But  when  a  monarch  in   this    country, 

fprung  from  whatever  line,    adorned  with 

whatever  hopes  from  the  glories  of  his  an- 

ceflry,  or  his  own  original  virtues,  perfifls 

2  in 


176  THE    WHIG. 

in  counfels  that  do  grievous  wrong,  and 
threaten  inftant  ruin ;  affection  is  loft  in 
duty.  Duty  to  the  country  demands  difcuflion 
of  a  maxim,  which,  if  the  conftruction  of 
the  Court  were  permitted,  would  fanctify 
every  publick  crime,  and  eftablifh  publick 
calamity.  Duty  to  the  PrinCe,  as  part  of 
the  conftitution  formed  by  the  people,  en- 
joins conftitutional  explanation  to  him  of 
a  phrafe,  which  flattery  has  rendered  fatal 
to  tyrants. 

When  it  is  truly  faid  that  the  King  can 
do  no  wrong,  the  office  is  intended,  and  not 
the  perfon ;  and  this  true  conftruction  is  the 
perfect  praife  of  our  admirable  conftitution. 
The  King  of  England  can  do  no  wrong ; 
for  it  is  not  the  office  of  the  King  to  do  any 
thing.  The  cautious  wifdom  of  our  policy 
will  riot,  permit  the  King  to  act.  It  not 
only  fuppofes,  but  requires  that  ability  (hall 
be  felected  from  the  people  to  execute  the 
active  duties  of  the  ftate.  Even  in  the  felec- 
tion  of  fuch  active  ability  for  publick  fervice, 
the  King,  as  we  are  now  confidering  him, 
cannot  do  wrong.  For  the  confideration 
fuppofes  him  in  his  conftitutional  publick 

character ; 


THE    WHIG.  177 

character :  a  character  conferred  on  him 
conditionally  by  the  people.  It  is  impoffi- 
ble,  therefore,  in  conftitutional  contempla- 
tion, that  a  King  of  England  mould  appoint 
incapable  or  unworthy  men  to  adminifter 
publick  affairs ;  or,  if  appointed,  that  the 
People  of  England  mould  permit  them  to  be 
retained ;  that  a  free  people  mould  facrifice 
their  original  rights  and  conftitutive  power 
to  fuch  abufe  of  the  kingly  office.  The 
unfairnefs  of  arguing  from  fuch  abufe  is 
evident.  The  kingly  office,  fo  abufed, 
would  no  longer  belong  to  the  conftitution. 
It  is  a  monftrous  cafe,  and  out  of  the  fup- 
pofition  of  fair  reafoning. 

Such  being  the  genuine  fenfe  of  the  max- 
im, the  corollary  obfervation  that  is  formed 
upon  it  appears  equally  juft  and  neceffary  ; 
that  the  minifters  of  executive  power  are 
refponfible  to  the  people :  and  their  refpon- 
ftbility  was  formerly  through  the  medium  of 
parliament. 

The  office  of  King  being  thus  confidered, 
I  trufl  with  due  refpe6l ;  for  I  think  it  re- 
ceives the  higheft,  when  defined  as  part  of 
the  conftitution ;  it  remains  to  remind  the 

VOL.  i.  N  perfon 


178  THE    WHIG. 

perfon  appointed  to  that  office,  that  he  is 
a  man  ; — that  in  his  perfonal  capacity  he 
may,  he  muft  do  wrong;  for  error  is  ef- 
fential  to  humanity.  It  remains  to  demon- 
it  rate  to  him,  that  whoever  confounds  his 
perfon  with  his  office,  is  a  fatal  enemy  to 
both  ;  for  that  they  are  fo  perfeclly  diftin6l 
in  their  nature,  attributes,  and  interefts,  that 
the  abufe  of  the  one,  is  expiable  only  by 
the  punifhment  of  the  other.  The  confti* 
tution  will  not  admit  that  the  King  did 
wrong ;  and  the  law  fays,  that  the  King 
never  dies  :  but  Charles  Stuart  was  an  obfti- 
nate  tyrant ;  and  Charles  Stuart  loft  his 
head. 

No  more  then  let  a  maxim  founded  in 
the  very  bottom  of  constitutional  liberty,  be 
forced  to  a  conftruclion  which  would  (hake 
and  endanger  it.  No  longer  let  the  law  of 
the  constitution,  which  would  preferve  fa- 
cred  the  office  of  the  King,  be  perverted  t® 
the  destruction  of  the  man. 

Another  tenet  of  court-craft,  new  in  the 
politicks  of  this  country,  is  not  Icfs  dangerous 
?o  its  profeflbrs  than  the  perverfion  of  the 
royal  maxim  that  has  been  confidered.  As 

Kings 


THE  WHIG.  179 

Kings  believed  they  could  not  individually 
do  wrong,  Minifters  now  flatter  themfelves 
that  majorities  in  parliament  can  make  -wrong 
right ;  and  from  them  they  hope,  not  only 
their  own  exculpation,  but  perfect  eftablim- 
ment  of  their  arbitrary  fyftem. 

It  will  not  be  difficult  to  demonftrate  the 
folly,  as  well  as  the  wickednefs,  of  fuch  a 
principle ;  and  to  prove,  to  the  utter  defpair 
of  arbitrary  men,  that  the  feeds  of  revolu- 
tion have  been  more  immediately  fown,  and 
with  more  certainty  of  inftant  growth  and 
effect,  by  the  Minifters  of  the  prefent  King, 
than  by  any  inftruments  of  tyranny  in  for- 
mer times. 

The  pofition  which  I  maintain,  and  (hall 
prove,  in  contradiction  to  their  parliamen- 
tary confidence,  is  this ;  that  majorities  in 
parliament  are  certainly  ruinous  to  the  Sove- 
reign and  his  Minifters ,  in  proportion  to  the 
fupport  they  are  induced  to  give  them,  in  per- 
Jijiing  againjl  thefenje  of  the  people. 

I  (hall,  in  my  next  paper,  confider  the 

fa6t,    as  it   has  occurred   in  America  and 

Ireland  ;    and  then,  if  our  Whig-fpirit  be 

not  extinct,  and  if  fimilar  caufes  produce 

N  2  fimilar 


l8o  THE    WHIG. 

iimilar  effects,  let  the  executive  power,  tremlle 
in  Great-Britain. 

December,  1779. 


(No.  4.) 

Tbis  glorious  fpirit  O/WHIGGISM,  animates  millions 
in  America,  who  prefer  poverty  with  liberty  to 
gilded  chains  and  fordid  affluence  ;  and  will  die 
in  defence  of  their  rights  as  men> — as  freemen, — 
What  /hall  refijl  this  fpirit  ? — Ireland  they  have 
to  a  man. 

Jan.  20,  1775.  ,    LORD  CHATHAM. 

llOWEVER  congenial  his  mind  to  the 
fpirit  triumphant  in  a  neighbouring  kingdom, 
emulous  of  the  glories  as  (he  was  participant 
in  the  injuries  of  the  weftern  empire,  grievous 
yet  is  the  pang  which  every  lover  of  his 
country  feels  in  this  degraded  ifland.  For 
the  triumph  of  Liberty  is  now  the  difgrace 

of 


THE    WHIG.  l8l 

of  England.  America  is  victorious  and  free. 
Ireland,  without  the  trouble  of  vi&ory,  en- 
joys all  its  confequence  and  glory.  She 
difplays  the  banner  of  independence;  her 
armies  appear ;  and  England  furrenders  at 
difcretion. 

England,  the  arbitrefs  of  empire, — Eng- 
land, thedifpenfer  of  the  power  and  guardian 
of  the  rights  of  nations  ; — England,  the 
wonder  and  terror  of  the  world — what  art 
thou  now  !  Difabled,  difhonoured,  fallen  ; 
defperate  of  afliftance  from  friends,  for  you 
have  none  ;  or  of  fuccefs  againft  enemies, 
for  you  failed  when  you  were  flronger, 
againfl  adverfaries  lefs  numerous  or  pow- 
erful : — too  little  for  confideration  in  a 
fcale  of  the  balance  which  you  once  held  and 
adjufted ;  and  remembered  only  in  the  ri- 
dicule of  Europe ;  vanquifhed  by  your 
Colonies,  to  whom  you  fued  in  vain  for 
mercy  ;  and  fubdued  even  by  the  afpecl 
of  Ireland,  to  her  abfolute  command. 

Love  of  our  country  cannot  be  extin- 
guiftied  in  the  hearts  of  Englifhmen  ;  and 
care  of  what  we  love  compels  us  to  fave 
it  from  utter  deftru&ion.  Though  the 

feme 


THE    WHIG. 

fenfe  of  glory  were  dead  throughout  the 
people,  yet,  if  the  common  and  firft  prin- 
ciples of  nature,  felf-defence  and  felf-pre- 
fervation,  be  not  extinct  among  us,  the 
period  of  revolution  and  revenge  is  at 
hand.  The  publick  fenfe  was  dull  to  the 
diftant  mifchief ;  but  prefent  calamity  ftrikes 
flrongly  and  fuddenly.  —  Three  months 
nurfed  the  American  lie;  but  the  Minifter 
cannot  falfify  Ireland.  Three  days  dete6l 
him,  and  demonftrate  the  glories  of  that 
country,  and  the  difgrace  of  this;  her  in- 
dependence, and  our  fubmiflion.  We  feel 
her  torn  from  our  fide,  and  we  bleed  at 
every  vein. 

Such  feeling  is  too  poignant  for  pa- 
tience. It  roufes  to  aftion  every  remaining 
nerve  of  our  ftrength,  to  refcue  from  inftant 
lofs  the  little  that  is  left ;  to  preferve  do- 
meflic  fecurity,  though  we  have  thrown 
away  empire;  to  entruft  the  facred  relick 
to  hearts  that  know  its  value,  and  hands 
that  can  defend  it ;  and,  above  all,  pioufly 
to  perform  the  rites  of  the  conftitution  ;  ap- 
peafmg,  by  exemplary  juftice,  the  indignant 
manes  of  our  power  and  our  glory. 

But 


THE   WHIG.  183 

But  in  this  necefTary  courfe  of  national 
juftice,  much  difficulty  is  to  be  encountered 
from  the  generous  prejudices  of  Englifhmen. 
In  favour  of  Miniflers  ?    No  man  will  ima- 
gine it,  in  a  reign,  which  has  rendered  fy- 
nonimous  the  odium  of  the  country  and  the 
favour   of  the   crown.     The  fate  of  fuch 
favourites  as  have  never  before  ftained  the 
annals  of  any  reign  in  any  country,  will  be 
unparalleled  in  hiftory.    Unqualified  by  any 
fentiment  of  refpeft  for  talents,  admiration 
of  magnanimity,  or  pity  of  any  one  virtue, 
the  publick  execration  that  fpares  them  not 
in  their  power,  will  overwhelm  them  in  their 
fall ; — the  contempt  that  purfues  them  now, 
will  infpire  peculiar  indignation  then,  that 
fuch  ufurpers  of  power  mould  have  been 
enabled  and  permitted  fo  to  fall ; — with  the 
blind  defpair,    but   without  the  flrength  of 
the  ftrong  man,  fo  to  drag  into  ruin  the 
mighty  fabrick  of  the  Britim  empire. 

But  difficulties  of  an  high  and  delicate 
nature  will  arife  in  effecting  the  revolution 
of  our  liberties.  They  have  arifen  elfe^ 
where;  but  the  neceffity  of  the  common- 
wealth has  furmounted  them.  Founded, 

however^ 


184  THE   WHIG. 

however,  in  the  generofities  of  ancient  at- 
tachment, I  know  they  are  found  in  the 
heart  of  every  Englifhman. 

Eighteen  years  of  tory-rule  cannot  have 
entirely  detached  the  Whigs  of  England 
from  the  Houfe  of  Hanover.  The  memory 
of  an  illuftrious  anceftry,  and  gratitude  to 
their  virtues,  muft  qualify  refentment  of 
prefent  wrongs,  with  an  affectionate  kind 
of  forrow ;  and  forrow,  in  generous  minds, 
foon  grows  to  pity.  Crimes  then  are  loft 
in  misfortunes ;  or,  if  remembered,  we  wifh 
to  reclaim  rather  than  to  punifh.  Or  even 
if  obftinacy  be  irreclaimable,  we  have  ftill 
fome  hope  in  the  future,  from  our  know- 
ledge of  the  paft.  A  difhonoured  reign  may 
pafs  away  in  our  annals,  like  a  cloudy  day 
in  fummer ;  and  if  the  day  be  not  too  long, 
nor  the  tempeft  too  violent,  the  glories  of 
the  fucceeding  morning  may  anfwer  our 
hopes,  and  renew  our  happinefs. 

But  to  tranquilife,  if  poflible^  the  prefent 
fcene,  by  reconciling  our  affeclion  to  a  par- 
ticular family,  with  our  duty  to  the  country, 
let  us  endeavour  to  win  attention  before  we 
force  it.  Let  us  convince  by  reafon  rather 

than 


THE    WHIG,  185 

than  by  power ;  and  try  to  prevent  the 
mifchief  by  the  example  of  others,  rather 
than  corre6l  it  by  our  own. 

It  was  propofed  in  my  laft  paper  to  con- 
fider  the  facl  of  difunion  from  this  country, 
as  it  has  occurred  in  America  and  Ireland, 
in  demonftration  of  the  maxim  that  I  there 
advanced  againft  the  parliamentary  confi- 
dence of  arbitrary  men.  From  the  fatal 
example  of  thofe  countries,  I  undertook  to 
prove,  that  majorities  in  parliament  are  ruin- 
ous to  the  Sovereign  and  his  Minifters,  in 
proportion  to  the  fupport  they  are  induced  to 
give  them  again/I  thefenfe  of  the  people. 

In  America  the  people  were  unanimous 
againft  certain  powers  claimed  by  their  late 
king,  and  attempted  to  be  exercifed  by  his 
miniflers  :  but  the  monarch  perfifted  againil 
his  people ;  and  has  loft  his  American 
throne.  So  far  the  fa6l  ftands  undifputed. 
Now  let  us  confider  whether  the  minifters 
and  their  majorities  in  parliament  have  not 
affefted  the  ruin  of  his  royalty,  while  they 
flattered  his  ambition,  and  feemed  to  fup- 
port his  power. 

ft 


i86  THE  WHIG; 

It  is  beyond  any  common  calculation  of 
obftinacy,    that    the  American  war  would 
have  been  perfifted  in,  if  the  monarch  had 
not  been  infatuated  by  thofe  monflrous  ma- 
jorities which  his  minifters,  by  every  mon- 
itrous  means,   procured  in  parliament.     I 
fay  by  every  monftrous  means :  for  befides 
the   court-corruption   that    prevails   in   all 
cafes,  new  and  unheard-of  wickednefs  pre- 
vailed in  this.     Falfification  of  facl  was  not 
indeed  new  in  the  minifter;  but  in  the  mag- 
nitude of  this  inftance,  it  took  peculiar  cri- 
minality.    Suppreffion  of  every  truth,  uni- 
verfai  fraud,    and  bafeft  mifreprefentation, 
blinded  the  reafon  of  men ;  while  every  fe- 
duftive  and  inflammatory  art  perverted  and 
poifoned  their  paflions.     Without  fuch  im~ 
pulfe,  nO  monarch,  however  blind  or  obfti- 
nate,  would  have  perfifted  in  fuch  a  war ; 
without  fuch  fupport,    he  could  not  have 
drawn  the  fword  from  year  to  year  againft 
his  people. 

But  even  if  fuch  had  been  the  fituation ; 
if  without  the  fiftion  of  parliamentary  fanc- 
tion,  the  royal  flandard  had  been  creeled 

.  againft 


THE  WHIC,  187 

again  ft.  the  liberties  of  America,  he  could 
not  have  loft  his  American  Crown  more 
abfolutely  than  he  has  by  a6l  of  parliament. 
I  believe  he  would  not  have  loft  it  fo  cer- 
tainly. America  would  have  conquered  the 
King,  and  more  fpeedily  perhaps  than  (he 
conquered  the  King  and  Parliament ;  but 
her  magnanimity  might  have  forgotten  the 
idle  ambition  of  a  foolifh  Prince;  though 
{he  will  never  forgive,  in  prudence  or  in 
fpirit,  the  formal  tyranny  of  a  grave  Legi- 
{lature. 

My  reader  may  have  been  furprized  and 
fhocked,  when  I  afferted  the  fa£l  of  Ireland 
being  now  difunited  from  this  country ;  be- 
caufe  he  may  have  liftened  to  the  tales  of 
Minifters,  and  the  impudent  inventions  of 
their  advocates.     But    I   affert   again   and 
again,  that  Ireland  is  at  this  moment  in  an 
a&ual  ftate  of  difunion  from  us ;   difunion 
of  commerce,  difunion  of  finance,  difunion 
of  military  ftrength,  and  difunion  of  nation- 
al affection.     Such  is  the  faft ;  and  there- 
fore I  ex  peel:  to  hear  the  Minifter  aflure 
Parliament  of  the  contrary. 

If 


l88  THE   WHIG. 

If  Parliament  continue  any  faith  in  the 
wifdom  or  truth  of  the  man,  whofe  folly 
and  fallacies  jnifled  them  to  caft  America 
from  us,  the  prefent  difunion  of  Ireland, 
which  their  marked  fervility  to  him  at  the 
clofe  of  laft  feflion  has  already  produced, 
and  their  prepofterous  fupport  of  him  at  the 
beginning  of  this,  has  already  ftrongly  con- 
firmed, will  be  ratified  for  ever.  I  flate  the 
fa6l  of  their  refentment,  without  now  going 
into  the  difcuflion  of  their  wrongs :  but 
their  refentment  is  exprefly  and  pointedly 
againft  the  Britim  Parliament.  They  ex- 
hauft  all  their  eloquence  againfl  it  in  their 
debates ;  and  when  they  want  terms  to  ex- 
prefs  its  tyranny,  its  avarice,  its  infenfibility 
to  every  thing  honourable  or  juft,  they 
fay  that  the  Britifh  Parliament  and  the 
Britim  Minifter  are  fynonimous. 

December  1779. 


(No. 


THE   WHIG.  189 

(No.  5.) 

Jncidit  in  Scyllam. 

L  Defire  to  reftify  fome  mifreprefentation 
which  may  have  arifen  on  my  ftate  of  the 
prefent  (ituation  of  Ireland,  in  my  laft  pa- 
per, both  as  to  the  nature  of  the  facl,  and 
the  view  with  which  it  was  there  advanced. 

When  I  aflerted  that  Ireland  was  actually 
difunited  from  this  country,  in  commerce, 
eftablifhment,  and  in  affeftion ;  I  did  not 
flate  a  difunion  fo  unfortunate  with  any 
triumph,  or  wifh  to  confirm  it.  It  was  to 
prevent  the  continuance  of  a  fituation  fo 
fatal  to  us,  that  the  facl  was  pointed  out  as 
it  exifled.  While  I  admired  the  rifing  glo- 
ries of  that  country,  I  defcribed  truly  the 
rapid  fall  of  this ;  not  for  the  purpofe-  of 
odious  and  difgraceful  comparifon ;  not  to 
infult  England  with  her  misfortunes ;  but 
to  roufe  her  from  ruin  by  the  demonftration 
of  herfelf  and  Ireland.  Seeing  and  feeling 

the 


190  THE  WHIG. 

the  difgrace  in  which  we  are  entangled,  the 
victorious  example  of  popular  fpirit  in  Ire- 
land ought  to  be  no  mean  additional  incen- 
tive to  us.  The  people  there  have  exerted 
their  original  energy,  to  effect  a  revolution 
which  nothing  but  the  omnipotence  of  an  una- 
nimous people  could  produce.  They  have 
recovered  commerce  and  liberty;  and,  in 
contempt  of  the  little  forms  and  ceremonies 
of  conftitution,  perverted  and  abufed  as  they 
had  been  againft  the  publick  weal,  they 
have  eftablifhed  an  invincible  force  to  main- 
tain their  recovered  rights. 

As  to  the  nature  of  the  difunion  actually 
exifting  in  the  refpects  that  have  been  men- 
tioned, it  is  our  happinefs  to  know  that  it 
is  a  forced  and  monftrous  fituation;  com- 
pelled into  its  prefent  exiftence  by  tem- 
porary caufes  alone,  which  the  breath  of 
the  people  can  fweep  away  for  ever;  and 
redeeming  the  juflice  and  honour  of  our 
national  character,  cement  on  an  enlarged 
bafis  the  connected  ftrength  of  Great-Britain 
and  Ireland. 

To  thofe  who  have  not  long  had   the 
misfortune  of  feeing  and  hearing  the  Mini- 

ften 


THE  WHIG. 

fter,  efpecially  in  the  propofal  of  conci- 
liatory plans,  it  would  appear  extraor- 
dinary that  his  firft  ftep  towards  the  adjuft- 
ment  of  a  difpute,  fhould  be  not  only  a 
iludious  mifreprefentation  of  its  principle, 
but  an  abfolute  falfification  of  the  manner 
in  which  that  principle  is  profefled  and 
maintained.  Pretending  to  open  the  door 
of  conciliation,  he  lays  a  {tumbling  block  at 
the  threfhold.  He  faid,  "  that  Ireland  peti- 
tioned, for  a  favour  ;;>  and  left  the  mifrepre- 
fentation mould  fail  of  effect,  he  repeated 
and  enforced  it.  "  It  is  not  a  demand, 
(continued  his  Lordfhip)  of  any  conftitu- 
tional  right  ; — they  petition,  humbly  and 
dutifully  petition,  as  a  favour  from,  this 
country,  the  extenfion  of  their  trade."  To 
a  whole  people,  unanimous  in  the  fentiment 
that  what  they  wifh  for  is  their  right,  their 
right  by  nature,  recognized  by  the  law  of 
their  country,  and  founded  in  their  confti- 
tution ;  it  would  not  feem  the  reconciling 
language  of  policy  to  fay  that  they  have  no 
juft  claim  whatever ;  and  that  every  thing 
they  obtain,  will  be  merely  through  charity 
and  favour.  But  to  an  united  people, 
2  zealous 


THE    WHIG. 

zealous  in  aftive  fupport  of  their  fentiments* 
aflbciated,  to  a  man,  in  every  ftrong  mea- 
fure  that  the  mod  determined  fpirit  can  fug- 
ged, glowing  with  emulous  patriotifm  that 
kindles  throughout  the  country ;— to  a  peo- 
ple arrayed  in  their  own  arms,  — it  is  the 
language  of  madnefs  to  impute  the  paflive- 
nefs  of  petition, — the  humblenefs  of  beg- 
gary. 

Utterly  ignorant,  as  the  Prime  Minifter 
profefled  himfelf,  of  the  moft  important 
queflion  that  the  narrowed  limits  of  our 
empire  will  now  admit,  filence,  on  a  fubjecl: 
fo  delicate  as  the  rights  of  kingdoms,  was 
doubly  his  duty.  For  though  he  were 
matter  of  the  theory,  and  could  enforce  the 
fac~l,  it  were  furely  an  unwife  difcuffion,  and 
a  dangerous  exercife  of  power ;  beyond 
comparifon  more  dangerous  towards  Ireland, 
than  it  could  at  firft  appear  towards  Ame- 
rica. I  do  not  unnecefTarily  enter  into  the 
queflion  of  comparative  flrength  at  the  re- 
fpe&ive  periods.  The  impotence  of  this 
reduced  country  is  notorious ;  and  it  were 
lofs  of  argument  to  go  into  a  proof  of  our 
imbecility  to  any  offenfive  purpofe,  when 

the 


THE    WHIG. 

the  Prime  Minifter,  within  thefe  two  days, 
has  told  the  Idand  of  Jamaica,  "  he  cannot 
promife  any  defenfive  force  for  that  Jlation, 
knowing  it,  as  he  fays,  to  be  the  moft  im- 
portant, and  wijhing,  moft  unimportantly, 
that  he  was  able  to  fecure  it ;"  and  when 
the  prefiding  Lord  of  the  Admiralty  infults 
the  planters  and  merchants  that  apply  to 
him,  with  their  folly  in  fuppofmg  that  he 
could  prote6l  them. 

I  fpeak  of  the  eftablifhed  principle  of 
every  man  in  Ireland,  the  principle  of  inde- 
pendence on  the  Parliament  of  this  country. 
I  know  that  the  fame  principle  was  imputed 
to  America;  but  it.  was  falfely  imputed. 
The  ingenuity  of  Lord  Mansfield  failed  to 
give  it  femblance ;  and  the  Chief  Juftice  was 
detected  in  the  forged  record  he  produced 
to  prove  it.  But  in  Ireland  the  facl  is  cer- 
tain and  univerfal,  and  therefore  the  Mini- 
fter ftudioufly  contradicts  it.  He  deter- 
mines the  diftrefs  of  his  country  by  inflexi- 
ble perfeverance  againft  truth,  whether  he 
afferts  or  denies.  He  would  aflert,  that  the 
American  principle  was  independence  on 
the  Britifh  Parliament,  while  all  America 

VOL.  i.  o  remon- 


1CJ4  TIIE    WHIG. 

remonflrated  the  contrary ; — and  he  has  loft 
America. — He  denies  that  Ireland  has  any 
fuch  principle,  when  every  man  in  Ireland 
is  ready  to  draw  his  fword  in  defence  of  it. 

It  might  be  hoped  that  no  man  could  be 
found  fo  obftinately  fenfelefs  as  to  perfevere 
in  a  fyftem  fo  impoffible, — to  fupport  the 
fupremacy  of  his  parliament,  when  he  has 
thrown  away  the  power  of  his  country. 
Such  bruta  fulmina  are  become  ridiculous 
in  Europe. 

As  to  the  fubftance  of  the  propofed  concef- 
fions  to  Ireland;  I  am  ready  to  acknowledge 
what  mufl  have  been  expefted  by  every  one 
who  knew  the  Mmifler.  It  is  not  furprifing 
that  the  man,  who,  after  binding  himfelf,  by  the 
obligation  of  honour,  never  to  concede  any 
thing  to  America,  fupplicated  her  the  next 
year  to  accept  every  thing,  no  ceflion  fhould 
now  make  large  and  fubftantial  compenfation 
to  Ireland,  becaufe  he  had,  Jaft  year,  in  perfon, 
prevented  her  flighted  fatisfaftion.  It  is  for 
Parliament  to  contemplate  the  dilemma  to 
which  this  Minifterhas  reduced  them.  If  they 
concur  with  his  prefent  propofition,  they  de- 
termine that  the  great  and  extenfive  benefit  of 

the 


THE    WHIG.  195 

the  greatefl  trade  thefe  countries  know,  is  not 
too  much  for  Ireland,  when  the  decifion  is 
fcarcely  dry  in  their  flatute-book,  that  the 
impoflible  growth  of  a  noxious  weed  was 
favour  enough  for  that  country.  If  they 
rejecl  the  prefent  proportion,  Ireland  will 
reject  them  for  ever :  not  their  power  and 
fupremacy  ;  for  parliamentary  dignity  is  no 
more,  and  let  Parliament  remember  the 
authors  of  its  deftruclion :  but  every  con- 
nection and  tie  of  alliance  will  diflblve  be- 
tween the  countries. 

I  have  fpoken  of  the  Minifter's  propqfi- 
tion,  for  only  one  is  worthy  confideration 
or  anxiety.  His  glafs  he  confeffed  was  a 
trifle ;  and  his  rum  and,  fugar,  he  proved, 
were  lefs,  anticipating  the  true  objection, 
that  the  very  high  propofed  duties,  on  the 
direcl  trade  of  thofe  articles  to  Ireland, 
would  burthen  them  more  than  the  difad- 
vanfages  of  their  prefent  circuitous  courfe 
to  that  kingdom.  "But  then,"  fays  this 
conferrer  of  favours,  "  it  will  be  optional 
to  the  people  of  Ireland  to  accept  this  new 
mode,  or  retain  the  old  one."  That  is,  he 
makes  a  very  generous  offer  of  an  injury, 
o  2  and 


lCj6  THE    WHIG. 

and  the  people  are  additionally  obliged  to 
him  for  gracioufly  giving  them  leave  to 
refufe  it. 

But  the  confideration  that  I  have  ftated, 
as  paramount  in  the  determined  fpirit  of 
Ireland,  renders  this  third  proportion  worfe 
than  trifling  or  uncommercial.  The  quef- 
tion  of  flate  is  aflumed  in  it ;  and  fuch  af- 
fumption,  retained,  will  for  ever  damn  all 
negociation.  He  propofes  an  enacting  pro- 
vjfo  in  a  Britim  ftatute,  to  prefcribe  the  du- 
ties to  be  impofed  by  an  Irifh  parliament. 
The  fecond-hand  farce  of  giving  them  the 
form  of  regiftering  what  a  Britifh  parliament 
has  dictated,  implies  a  contempt  of  their 
underftanding,  that  probably  will  not  tend 
to  allay  their  fpirit. 

It  is  neceffary,  for  the  welfare,  the  peace, 
the  exiftence  of  the  country,  that  the  parlia- 
ment and  the  people  mould  fee  where  they 
are,  what  they  are  doing,  and  with  whom 
they  are  treating.  The  Minifter  has  no 
merit  in  his  propofed  conceffion.  It  ftig- 
matizes  him  more  bafely,  if  poffible,  than 
all  his  adminiftration  have  been  able  to  do  : 
but  among  the  people  a  liberal  fpirit  has 

gone 


THE    WHIG.  197 

gone  forth ;  they  will  not  aft  from  the  bafe- 
nefs  of  fear,  but  let  them  entertain  this  great 
queftion  with  prudence,  moderation,  and 
dignity.  If  it  be  poflible,  in  the  prefent 
fatal  crifis,  to  decide  it  with  due  impartiality, 
with  perfect  and  cool  juftice  to  the  claims  of 
Ireland,  and  the  interefts  of  England — where 
mail  the  vengeance  of  the  people  fall? — On 
the  heads  of  thofe  guilty  men  who  have  dif- 
armed  the  ftate  of  its  power — who  have  cor- 
rupted the  functions  of  parliament — WHO 

HAVE  BETRAYED  THE  PEOPLE  OF  ENG- 
LAND. 

December  13,  1779. 


,'  Xo. 


1C)8  THE    WHIG. 


( No.  6. ) 

To  the  Right  Honour oMe  EDWARD  Lord, 
'Baron  THITRLOW,  and,  Lord  High  Chan- 
cellor of  England. 

'  Magnum  virum  facile  dixcris ;  BONUM  llbenter. 

ji  Have  acknowledged  your  rank,  my  Lord, 
and  your  high  titles,  with  the  pleafure  that 
every  liberal  mind  feels  in  doing  juftice  to 
an  eminent  character.  Every  man  is  ready 
to  confefs  that  they  have  been  earned  by 
abilities  as  fuperior,  as  the  independence 
and  honour  ought  to  be,  which  alone  can 
dignify  their  nature,  or  juftify  their  tenure. 
But  there,  my  Lord,  on  that  cardinal  point, 
the  ptiblick  judgment  has  been  long  fuf- 
pended.  If  I  add,  that  the  fcale  is  now 
rapidly  defcending  againft  you,  and  that  the 
wonder  of  your  talents  avails  only  to  give 
weight  and  acceleration  to  the  cenfure  of 
your  conduct,  your  Lordfhip  will  confefs 
the  juftice  of  your  country,  when  you  recoi- 
led 


THE    WHIG. 


Je6l  yourfelf,  and  look  round  on  the  men 
whofe  caufe  you  condefcend  to  plead. 

One  of  that  publick  who  delighted  in 
admiring,  and  who  now  exercife  with  pain 
their  right  of  judging  you,  I  yet  offer  myfelf 
to  your  Lordfhip  as  your  friend.  And 
though  the  friendfhip  of  honeft  reproof  be 
in  general  equally  thanklefs  and  fruitlefs,  I 
rely  on  the  manlinefs  of  your  mind  for  its 
publick  effe6l  in  this  inftance,  and  even  for 
your  Lordfhip's  gratitude. 

Before  our  correfpondence  proceeds,  let 
me  clear  its  way  to  your  underftanding  and 
your  approbation. 

This  letter  is  written,  and  unlefs  rendered 
unneceffary,  more  (hall  be  addreffed  to  your 
Lordfhip,  not  as  a  publick  man  who  in- 
fluences publick  affairs,  but  as  the  Dictator* 
of  the  State  who  decides  them  ;  I  do  not  fay 
immediately  in  council,  but  certainly  in 
effect.  Your  Lordfhip  already  underftands 
me,  and  fo  will  the  people,  before  our  cor- 
refpondence clofes.  In  the  mean  time,  I 
flate  myfelf  to  your  Lordfliip,  and  my  coun- 
try, not  alone  juftifted,  but  impelled  to  re- 
prefent  you  to  yourfelf,  and  explain  you  to 

the 


20O  THE    WHIG. 

the  publick,  in  all  your  prefent  power,  and 
all  its  fatal  confequence  ;  impelled,  by  what 
your  own  nervous  eloquence  too  confcioufly 
defcribes,  "  the  abundant  danger  and  exi- 
gence of  the  time." 

I  do  not  argue  unfairly  with  your  Lord- 
(hip,  when  I  affume  the  facl;  of  our  mif- 
government  for  the  laft  ten  years.  /  know 
the  contempt  with  which  the  fuperiority  of 
your  mind  has  looked  down  on  the  wretch- 
ednefs  of  the  adminiftration. 

I  admire  the  emphatic  zeal  for  your  own 
dignity  with  which  you  have  ever  difclaimed 
all  fellowmip,  even  perfonal  acquaintance,* 
with  the  Prime  Minifter.  And  it  was  in 
thefe  fentiments  that  I  hoped,  and  the  pub- 
lick  ^expecled,  my  Lord,  you  would  have 
difdained  all  continuance  of  publick  connec-- 

*  Lord  Thurlow  has  taken  many  opportunities  of  vin- 
dicating himfelf  on  this  fubjecl.  "  I  have  no  habits 
with  the  Minifter" — "  I  do  not  know  Lord  North," — are 
his  expreffions  (verbatim)  on  thofc  occafions.  But,  in  a 
more  publick  fcene,  his  determined  filence  on  Lord 
North's  charaJfer,  is  ftill  more  decifive.  He  cannot,  in- 
deed, refcue  him  from  the  eloquence  of  Lord  Shelburne ; 
but  it  is  the  very  malice  of  contempt  to  leave  him  to  the 
praifes  of  Lord  Hilliborough  and  the  Duke  of  Chandos. 

tion 


THE    WHIG.  201 

lion  with  him.  A  man  of  fpirit,  it  was 
concluded  that  you  would  not  devote  your- 
felf  for  ever  to  pufillanhnity  and  difhonour ; 
a  man  of  adivity  and  vigour,  it  was  deemed 
impoflible  that  you  fhouid  be  rivetted  to  in- 
dolence and  lethargy,  and  that  the  only  ex- 
ertion of  your  great  talents  mould  be  in 
defence  of  ignorance  and  infeniibility,  which 
they  had  attempted  in  vain  to  inform  and 
animate. 

Such,  my  Lord,  was  the  perfuafion  of  a 
people,  who  were  willing  to  confide  at  lead 
in  your  magnanimity :  and  even  yet  it  is 
hoped,  that  you  will  not  thwart  your  na* 
ture,  becaufe  it  happens  to  concur  with 
your  duty  ; — that  the  natural  exertion  of 
your  character  will  not  be  weakened,  from 
the  confideration  that  it  would  fave  your 
country. 

It  is  not  my  prefent  purpofe,  my  Lord, 
to  write  the  hiftory  of  Mr.  Thurlow ;  for 
my  objecl  is  purely  publick.  Totally, 
therefore,  rejecting  every  private  anecdote, 
let  us  contemplate  your  prefent  publick 
capacity.  If  turning  the  telefcope  for  a 
moment,  I  defcry,  through  the  diftant  and 

diminifhed 


202  1H£  WHIG. 

diminiihed  retrofpecl;,  an  accidental  advo 
cate  at  a  country  quarter  feflions,  it  is  only 
to  prepare  my  mind  with  due  wonder  for 
the  contrafl  of  your  prefent  magnitude.  If 
I  recoiled  the  firft  fortuitous  ftep  to  the 
houfe  of  Oueenfbury,  it  is  to  admire — fm- 
cerely,  fir,  to  admire, — the  flrides  of  your 
genius,  mounting  now  above  the  houfe  of 
Bedford.  The  inferiorities  of  the  portrait 
are  beneath  the  publick  intereft  and  the 
publick  eye.  Ex  CAPITE  Herculem. 

At  the  opening  of  this  feffion,  the  gene- 
ral ftate  of  the  kingdom,  and  the  empire, 
became,  as  ufual,  the  fubjeft  of  parliamen- 
tary confideration.  The  particular  topicks, 
fince  felefted  for  efpecial  difcuffion,  have 
been  the  condu6l  of  our  miniflers,  with 
refpecl  to  the  kingdom  of  Ireland,  and  their 
management  in  regard  to  the  publick  fi- 
nance. . 

In  all  thefe  great  confiderations  and  dif- 
euffions,  you  have  flood  forth  the  only 
champion  of  the  prefent  minifters.  For  of 
their  own  defences,  I  would  in  decency  fay 
nothing.  Befides  their  being  the  culprits, 
and  difentitled  to  any  credit  in  their  affer- 

tion, 


THE   WHIG".  203 

tion,  its  meannefs  were  fufficient  to  difgufl 
us,  and  condemn  them.  Accufe  them  of 
publick  crime,  of  the  danger  of  our  iflands, 
or  the  lofs  of  our  territory  ;  they  declare 
with  the  mod  ridiculous  folemnity,  that  it 
is  not  the  fault  of  thofe  who  conduct  publick 
affairs  as  they  are,  but  of  thofe  who  Labour  to 
make  them  other  wife.  For  their  own  part, 
they  call  God  to  witnefs,  they  know  nothing 
of  the  matter  *.  Demonftrate  their  publick 
peculation  ; — they  deprecate  juftice  in  the 
fame  fpirit  of  the  Old  Bailey ;  in  the  very 
language,  indeed,  of  a  profligate  convi6l : 
— We  have  robbed  the  publick;  but  we 
have  fquandered  the  fpoil ; — dorit  punijli  us, 
for  weJJiall  not  be  able  to  maintain  our  f ami- 
'/tM-h 

I  afk  pardon  from  my  reader  for  defcend- 
ing  to  fuch  mifery ;  rendered  worthy  of 
publick  notice,  only  from  your  fingular 
fup port.  No  Nobleman,  except  your 

*  Lord  North  (verbatim)  on  the  flafe  of  Ireland,  and 
the  Jamaica  papers ;  and  Lord  Stormont  on  every  fub- 
je£h ;  efpecially  the  American-  queftion,  "  For  he  was 
ambaflador  at  Paris." 

t  Lord  Hilliborough  (ytrbatim)  in  the  Houfe  of  Lords. 

Lordfhip, 


204  TH£ 

Lordfhip,  has  {looped  to  it;  no  Englifhman, 
except  yourfelf,  has  fo  infulted  his  country. 
Even  in  the  Houfe  of  Commons,  none  but 
Scotch  lawyers  were  found  hardy  enough  on 
that  day  to  infult  this  kingdom.  And  even 
they,  with  all  the  fervility  of  their  country, 
and  venality  of  their  profeflion  (Mr.  Adam* 
indeed,  is  but  a  young  practitioner)  were 
forced  to  confefs  "  the  fluggijhnefs  of  Lord 
North."  They  did  not  poft  from  Scotland  to 
applaud  the  Minifler,  whofe  irrefolution  has 
renewed  rebellion  in  their  kirk,  and  whofe 
continued  power  will  add  depopulation  and 
famine  to  their  country.  No,  my  Lord,  they 
are  too  difcreet.  They  croffed  the  Tweed,  ac- 
cording to  the  diftinftion  fuggefted  by  their 
countryman,  and  pretty  fteadily  adopted  fince, 
not  to  defend  mimjicrs,  but  fupport  govern- 
ment.— And  the  doftrine  is  now  eftablifhed  in 
practice,  by  an  immediate  proficient  from 
Lord  Mansfield's  fchool ; — that  the  only  mode 
offupporting  Government  is  tojlander  the  Peo- 
ple ;  to  demonftrate  that  we  have  neither 
virtue,  talents,  nor  fpirit  among  us ;  that  we 
ought,  therefore,  to  endure  defeat  and  dif- 
grace,  as  our  neceffary  lot,  and  hew  our 
i  wood 


THE   WHIG.  205 

wood   and   draw   our   water,    without    re- 
pining. 

The  exclufive  infamy  of  fuch  auxiliaries 
were  itfelf  fufficient  to  drag  down  the  dignity 
of  any  chara&er. — Firmer  fame  even  than 
yours,  if  it  rifqued  fuch  ruin,  could  not  efcape 
it.  When  the  Lord  High  Chancellor  of  Eng- 
land defcends  from  his  prefiding  feat  in  the 
aflembly  of  the  nobles,  to  mix  with  impu- 
dent mercenaries  in  a  caufe  which  every 
man  of  honour  fhrinks  from,  he  forfeits 
every  reputation,  and  his  glory  will  fet 
more  rapidly  than  it  rofe.  Defcent  and 
fall,  which,  with  the  fpirits  of  Milton,  we 
thought  adverfe,  at  leaft  to  the  magnanimity 
of  his  character,  will  grow  natural,  necef- 
fary,  and  inftant,  to  its  abafement.  He  finks 
for  ever. 

January,  1780. 


(No. 


206  THE    WHIG. 


(No.  7.) 

,    Alas,  from  whit  high,  hope  t  to  -what  rdapft 
Unlook'dfor>  arc  we  fall'n  ! 

rr 

1  HE  fatts  which  have  long  tended  and 
now  combine  to  give  perfection  to  the  ar- 
bitrary influence  of  the  crown,  may  be  dif- 
tinguifhed  into-  two  clafles :  the  ancient  op- 
portunities ofabufe  ofgovernment>  unremoved 
by  an  imperfecl  revolution  ;  and,  the  mo- 
dern inventions  of  power.  It  ought  not  to 
be  wondered  at,  that  the  former,  which 
efcaped  .the  >vreck  of  James's  tyranny,  fur- 
vived  fafe  and  forgotten  through  the  glori- 
pus  and  happy  reigns  that  followed.  But  it 
is  as  much  to  be  lamented,  as  it  is  fenfibly 
felt,  that  dormant  as  they  feem  to  have  been 
in  the  reign  of  popular  princes,  they  were 
in  fa6t  acquiring  fize  and  flrength,  fufficient 
to  arm  the  hand  of  modern  power  with 
inftruments  more  dangerous  to  liberty,  than 
the  coarfer  times  of  James  or  Charles  had 

furnifiied. 


THE   WHIG.  2O7 

furnifhed.  Thofe  opportunities,  and  temp- 
tations to  defpotifm,  feemed  to  have  attain- 
ed their  full  maturity  at  the  commencement 
of  the  prefent  reign.  The  feptennial  a  61  of 
fuicide,  abhorrent  certainly  from  the  popu- 
lar nature  of  parliament,  and  deftruclive  of 
its  due  independence  on  the  crown,  had 
been  long  perpetrated.  Military  power  and 
civil  influence  united  to  enable  the  Prince, 
if  he  were  fo  difpofed  by  nature  or  educa- 
tion, to  opprefs  and  corrupt  the  people, 
whofe  property  and  power  was  lefTened  ex- 
aftly  in  the  proportion  that  the  crown  had 
gained  weight  and  force,  by  the  eftablim- 
ment  of  a  (landing  army,  and  a  national 
debt.  But,  above  all,  the  time  of  his  afcen- 
iion  to  the  throne  was  full  of  fuch  peculiar 
circumltances  of  popularity,  as  gave  him 
unlimited,  becaufe  unfufpefted,  power.  In- 
to that  aufpicious  moment  was  crouded  all 
the  promife  of  his  youth ;  founded  in  the 
fond  memory  of  all  the  virtues  of  his  ancef- 
tors ;  of  his  youth,  riling,  as  it  feemed,  to 
renew  the  race  of  glory  that  they  had  run, 
even  up  to  the  recent  goal  of  univerfal  con- 
quer!. Nature  and  fortune  compiled  to 

rive 


2O8  THE    WHIG. 

give  the  young  Monarch  of  that  day  an 
empire  the  beft  and  mofl  permanent  that 
Monarchs  can  enjoy,  if  they  wifh  to  main- 
tain it, — an  abfolute  power  in  the  hearts  of 
his  fubjefts. 

Such  was  the  power  and  the  opportunity 
of  exercifing  it,  with  which  his  prefent 
Majefty  afcended  the  throne.  If  it  had  been 
the  counfel  of  his  reign  to  improve  it  into 
the  perfect  and  reciprocal  happinefs  of  him- 
felf  and  his  people,  the  way  was  not  fleep 
nor  difficult.  The  virtues  of  his  royal 
grandfather,  the  talents  of  Mr.  Pitt,  and  the 
genius  of  England,  called  into  action  by 
them,  had  furmounted  the  difficulties  of  war 
and  faction,  and  corruption;  and  nothing 
remained  for  a  prince  that  wifhed  an  ho- 
nourable and  happy  reign,  but  to  purfue  the 
path  that  his  anceftor  had  trod,  with  new 
facility  and  afcertained  fuccefs. 

But  if  other  counfels  were  introduced, 
and  other  objecls  propofed  than  the  mutual 
interefts  of  prince  and  people,  different  then 
muft  have  been  the  means  to  attain  thofe 
different  ends.  Then,  inftead  of  cultivating 
the  falutary  fruits  of  wife  and  -happy  go- 
vern- 


THE    WHIG.  209 

vernment,  the  old  weeds  of  tyranny  would  be 
carefully  cherifhed  and  diffeminated,  till  a  new 
harveft  fhould  arife,  adapted  to  the  feafon,  and 
to  the  taftes  of  men,  lefs  loathfome,  but  more 
poifonous  and  fatal.  The  unextirpated 
abufes  of  former  times,  mellowed  now  by 
age,  would  be  refined  into  a  new  and  more 
fubtil  fpirit.  Then  would  appear,  in  fuper- 
addition  to  the  ancient  opportunities  of 
mifgovernment,  unrernoved  by  the  old 
Revolution,  the,  modern  inventions  of  power, 
to  be  removed  and  annihilated  only  by  a 
new  one. 

I  will  not  fay  that  the  counfels  early  in- 
culcated into  the  mind  of  the  young  Prince, 
and  the  young  King,  were  other  than  doc- 
trines of  the  pure  ft  liberty ;  for  I  never 
heard  the  conftitutional  lectures  which  Lord 
Bute  delivered  in  the  clofet.  But  every 
Englifhman  will  aflert  what  he  feels,  while 
freedom  of  fpeech  and  fenfe  of  feeling  re- 
main to  him  ;  that  whatfoever  thofe  princi- 
ples were,  the  effecl:  of  them  has  been 
extenfion  of  royal  influence,  and  violation 
of  popular  rights :  and  every  man  of  com- 
mon fenfe  will  conclude  in  argument,  that 

VOL.  i.  p  as 


210  THE    WHIG. 

as  falfehood  cannot  flow  from  truth,  fo  the 
political  effect  that  has  been  ftated  as  .gene- 
rally felt,  cannot  be  the  refult  of  the  mod 
perfeft  conftitutional  principles. 

The  diftinguifhing  charafteriftic  of  the 
prefent  reign  feems  to  be  the  new  fpirit  in 
which  the  members  of  adminiflration  muft 
feverally  live,  move,  and  have  their  being. 
Formerly,  Adminiflration  was  a  body  actu- 
ated by  one  fpirit  that  pervaded  the  whole ; 
its  members  were  diilincl,  not  feparate :  the 
particular  function  of  each  was  enforced  by 
the  correfponding  authority  of  all ;  and  the 
general  object  was  compafled  by  confent  of 
parts,  giving  the  additional  effort,  as  nature 
and  reafon  dictate,  of  united  force.  Now, 
our  mangled  government  is  in  a  perpetual 
ftate  of  feveralty  and  difunion ;  and,  like 
the  Polypus,  each  wretched  part  crawls 
about  without  power,  name,  or  fignifi- 
cance. 

But  weaknefs  alone  were  not  a  fufBcient 
qualification  for  a  modern  minifter.  He 
rnufl  be  actively  contemptible,  if  he  expeft 
honour  at  court.  So  conftant  encourage- 
ment is  extended,  and  always  a  ready  audi- 
ence 


THE   WHIG.  211 

ence  to  all  the  little  {lander  of  office  againft 
office;  to  the  whifper  of  the  Treafury 
againft  the  American  department,  or  to  the 
lye  of  the  Admiralty  againft  them  both. 
Occafions  are  ftudioufly  contrived  to  bend 
and  fubdue  the  fpirits  of  men ;  and  thofe 
are  advanced  the  higheft  in  the  fervice,  who 
have  beft  learned  the  difcipline  of  difgrace. 
There  mould  be  little  wonder,  that  com- 
manders in  fuch  a  fervice  are  fought  for 
from  the  ranks. 

Virtue,  we  are  told  by  an  admired  au- 
thority, is  the  principle  of  government  in 
republicks  ;  and  honour  in  a  monarchy.  In 
a  government,  therefore,  fuppofed  to  unite, 
and  almoft  to  identify  the  properties  of  both; 
where  the  power  of  the  monarch  is  the  con- 
fent  of  the  people  ;  and  popular  concurrence 
is  regal  ftrength ;  we  might  hope  for  the  com- 
bined principle  of  honourable  virtue.  But  if, 
in  facl;  direftly  contrary,  we  find  a  principle 
that  counterplots  and  counterworks  the  beft 
andnobleft  aifeclions  of  humanity,  and  would 
annihilate  all  moral  duty  and  natural  con- 
neclion;  a  principle  that  fevers  friend  from 
friend,  and  feduces  brother  from  brother; 
p  2  that 


212  THE  WHIG. 

that  hugs,  and  betrays,  and  deftroys ;  that 
drives  honour  to  defpair,  and  leaves  no  alter- 
native to  virtue,  but  infamy  or  fuicide;  it  will 
not  be  a  very  unlogical  or  uncharitable  con- 
clufion  to  infer,  that  fuch  a  government  is 
neither  in  the  fpirit  of  a  republick,  nor  a  mo~ 
narchy ;  that  fuch  a  principle  cannot  be  fup- 
pofed  to  be  enforced  in  mere  wantonnefs,  and 
without  an  object ;  for  vice  is  not  its  own  re- 
ward ;  and,  therefore,  that  defpotifm  alone 
is  the  fpirit  of  that  government,  where  fuch 
principles  and  practices  prevail. 

Befides  the  feparate  and  difhonoured  ca- 
pacity in  which  modern  politicks  require 
Minifters  to  depend,  not  on  their  virtues  or 
talents,  not  on  popular  favour  or  honour- 
able connection,  but  on  fomething  elfe  di- 
rectly oppofite :  towards  perfectly  eftablifh- 
ing  the  new  fyflem  on  the  ruins  of  the  old, 
particular  innovation  of  difgrace  was  hecef- 
fary  in  that  department  of  adminiftration, 
which  the  courtefy  and  the  fuccefs  of  for- 
mer times  had  denominated  the  ftrft.  The 
Prime  Minifter  was  now  to  be  the  prime 
objecl  of  contempt.  Inftead  of  the  digni- 
fied and  official  confequence  in  parliament, 

which 


THE    WHIG.  213 

which  naturally  and  conftitutionally  would 
attend  a  Minifter  of  fpirited  talents  and 
popular  virtues ;  our  novus  homo  muft  fub- 
mit  to  the  new  penance  of  his  place :  de- 
riving no  honour  from  viclory,  for  every 
in  an  was  to  know  him  only  as  the  Adjutant 
of  the  troops ;  but  left  he  mould  imagine 
himfelf  more,  or  grow  by  miftake  into  any 
reputation,  he  was  (ludioudy  to  be  expofed 
in  fituations  of  difgrace  and  difappoint- 
ment:  in  contemptible  minorities,  without  a 
friend  to  fupport  or  pity  him  :  (I  fpeak  of 
former  occafions,  when  the  court  power 
was  fupreme ;  for  now  the  management  of 
parliament  is  not  quite  fo  optional  to  the 
fpirit  of  St.  James's  :)  fo  that  when  the  par- 
liamentary Minister  feemed  to  fail  on  the  full 
tide  of  power  "  to  bring  America  to  his  feet," 
whether  by  Scotch  bills  of 'Jlarvation,  or  his 
own  conciliatory  propofitions,  he  was  to 
find  himfelf  carried  away  by  fome  under- 
current, out  of  his  latitude,  and  contrary 
to  his  reckoning.  Real  pay  indeed  was  to 
compenfate  the  futility  of  nominal  rank ; 
but  the  private  favour  was  precarious,  and 
the  publick  odium  certain.  He  was  to  be 

the 


214  THE   WHIG. 

the  Minifter  or  the  Meflenger,  as  the  arbi- 
trary whim  of  the  minute  fliould  di&ate  or 
permit ;  to  have  authority  enough  to  effec- 
tuate every  mifchief  that  fhould  be  com- 
manded, but  no  power  whatever,  if  by 
chance  he  (hould  be  inclined  to  prevent 
any  ;  juftly  refponfible  for  others  crimes  as 
well  as  his  own,  becaufe  their  willing  inftru- 
ment ;  the  devoted  viftim  of  their  ambition 
and  his  own  meannefs  :  he  was,  in  fine,  to 
reprefent  the  pawn  before  the  perfon  of  the 
King* ;  advanced  and  protected  for  a  time; 
but  when  no  longer  able  to  divert  or  fuftain 
the  attack,  to  be  fwept  away  from  the  board 
for  ever,  the  enfans  perdu  of  a  defperate 
party. 

\ 

March  1780. 


*  In  allufion  to  the  Game  of  Chefs,  in  which,  as  has 
been  ftated  in  the  life  of  Mr.  Boyd,  he  was  fo  eminently 
fldlful. 

(No. 


THE    WHIG.  215 

(No.  8.) 
THE  KING  his  own  Minijler. 

W  HEN  the  planters  and  merchants  of 
Jamaica  demanded  from  the  firft  Lord  of  the 
Admiralty  fome  afTurance  of  protection  from 
the  fleet  of  England,  Lord  Sandwich  in- 
formed them,  "  that  his  was  merely  an  exe- 
cutive department."  When  they  waited  on 
the  Secretary  of  State  for  America,  to  foli- 
cit  fome  attention  from  government,  Lord 
George  Germain  acquainted  them,  "  that 
every  thing  had  been  done  that  he  could  do.:> 
When  they  called  upon  the  Prime  Minifter 
for  fome  exertion  to  fave  the  ifland,  Lord 
North  told  them,  "  he  did  not  know  it  was 
in  danger ;  but  if  it  were,  he  could  under- 
take nothing  pofitive  for  its  defence  :  that 
Lord  Sandwich  was  perfectly  right  in  his 
politicks ;  for  that  the  firft  Lord  of  the 
Admiralty,  the  Secretaries  of  State,  and  the 
firft  Lord  of  the  Treafury,  were  merely  ex- 
ecutive :  the  cabinet  mujl  determine" 

Omitting 


2l6  TH-E    WHIG. 

Omitting  for  the  prefent  the  charafterif- 
tick  conduct  of  thefe  noble  perfons  on  that 
occafion  ;  the  infolent  levity,  the  hollow 
politenefs,  and  the  laboured  nothingnefs ; 
I  defire  to  fatten  my  reader's  attention  to 
the  fingularity  of  this  fubjeft.  It  is  the 
only  article  of  political  communion  among 
the  minifters.  In  no  one  fentiment  of  po- 
liticks do  they  agree  but  this,  to  difTemble 
their  refpeclive  refponiibility,  and  to  load 
their  common  matter  with  the  guilt  of  all 
his  fervants:  "you  cannot  fay  that  I  did 
it :  the  King  is  his  own  Minifter" 

If  it  were  poflible  to  add  to  the  guilt  of 
men  who  have  plundered  the  property,  and 
openly  afiail  the  liberty  of  the  people,  this 
additional  contempt  of  the  conftitution  of 
their  country  would  crown  their  crimes. 
It  is  notorious  that  they  have  recourfe  to  it 
on  every  criminal  and  penal  part  of  their 
conduct  or  their  neglect.  It  is  their  con- 
flant  boaft  of  impunity.  I  inquire  not 
whether  fuch  a  libel  on  the  government  of 
Englandr-a  libel  fo  falfe,  my  Lord  Mans- 
field, and  fo  feditious  in  neceffary  confe- 
quence  againft  his  crown  and  dignity,  be 

flamped 


THE    WHIG.  217 

{lamped  with  the  royal  imprimatur;  or 
whether,  as  I  wifh  may  be  the  fact,  it  be  the 
forgery  of  the  men  who  have  furrounded 
and  betrayed  him.  They  are  the  publifti- 
ers,  if  they  did  not  invent  or  dictate  it;  and 
they  foon  will  be  tried  by  God  and  their 
country. 

In  this  fhort  fentence  is  wound  up  and 
comprefled  all  the  myftery  and  mifchief  of 
modem  politicks.     The  King  is  his  own  Mi- 
nijitr.     That  is,  the  whole  executive  power 
and  adminiflration  of  the  (late  is  to  be  placed 
in  hands  fuperior  to  control ;  too  ftrong  for 
ordinary  refiftance,   and  too  facred,   as   is 
fuppofed,  for  punifhment.     In  effect  there- 
fore, whenever  people  can  be  fubdued  to 
the  practice  of  fuch  theory,  this  principle 
amounts  to  perfect  and  complete  defpotifm. 
For  what  is  the  power  of  the  moft  arbitrary 
deipot  on  earth,  other  than  poffeffion  of  the 
whole  executive  ftrength  of  the  ftate  with- 
out check  of  refiftance,  or  fear  of  punifh- 
ment?-—What  truer  defcription  can  apply 
to  an  arbitrary  Monarch,  than  that  he  is  the 
uncontrolled  Minifler  of  his  own  ambition 
and  caprice,  in  the  unjuft  violences  of  war, 

and 


2l8  THE    WHIG. 

and  the  corruptions  and  follies  of  internal 
government  ? 

I  had  occafion  in  an  early  paper  to  dif- 
cufs  the  trite  and  mifunder flood  maxim  in 
the  polity  of  England,  that  the  King  can  do 
no  wrong.  While  the  Englifh  conflitution 
is  preferved,  it  is  in  its  true  fenfe  a  wife  and 
ufeful  maxim;  but  if  the  monftrous  inno- 
vation were  tolerated,  that  the  King  is  his 
own  Minijler}  it  becomes  nonfenfe  or  tyran- 
ny. If  he  makes  no  ufe  whatever  of  his 
minifterial  power,  it  is  abfurd  to  call  him. 
his  own  minifler,  as  it  would  be  fuperfluous 
to  fay,  that  he  can  do  no  wrong  who  does 
nothing.  But  if  he  exert  the  executive 
power,  perfonally  invefled  in  him  by  this 
tyrannous  do&rine,  and  if  that  exertion  be 
unpunifhable  and  unqueftionable  becaufe  he 
can  do  no  wrong,  I  know  no  more  complete 
defcription  of  arbitrary  fway. 

The  old  Utopia  of  the  controlling  care 
of  parliament,  of  the  grand  inqueft  of  the 
nation,  and  the  hereditary  council  of  the 
crown,  is  very  pretty  reading,  and  it  is  no 
no  more.  We  may  amufe  ourfelves  with 
looking  at  thefe  venerable  family-piftures 

of 


THE    WHIG.  219 

of  the  conftitution,  the  works  certainly  of 
eminent  matters,  and  admire  the  unfading 
colours  of  their  fame.  But  are  they  more 
than  objects  of  curiofity,  or,  at  beft,  of 
empty  admiration,  out  of  all  modern  tafte 
and  refemblance?  In  the  portrait  of  Go- 
dolphin  do  we  trace  the  features  of  Lord 
North  ?  Was  Somers  the  prototype  of  the 
Earl  of  Mansfield?  Is  the  prefent  ufurper 
of  Blenheim,  a  Duke  of  Marlborough  ? 

In  truth,  whoever  would  now  go  about 
to  talk  of  whig-principles  in  government; 
infpired  and  eftablifhed  by  the  honour  of 
the  peers,  or  the  virtue  of  the  commons, 
muft  be  a  more  impudent  knave  than  the 
majority  of  either  houfe  can  produce.     To 
prove  that  the  fun  mines  at  midnight  is  a 
difficulty  too  arduous  even  for  "  the  fore- 
head"   (as  he  himfelf  modeflly  exprefles  it,) 
of  the  Earl  of  Sandwich.     A  more  practi- 
cable, and  more  wicked  courfe  is  purfued. 
It  were  defperate  to  appeal  to  the  reafon  of 
mankind  againft  their  fenfes  ;    but  appeals 
to  their  malignity  againft  their  reafon  may 
be  attended  with  fuccefs.      Thus  the  few 
advocates  who  can  be  induced  to  plead  in 

fuch 


22O  THE   WHIG. 

fuch  a  caufe,  never  (hock  the  common  fenfe 
of  their  audience,  by  endeavouring  to  prove 
their  friends  able  or  honefl :  they  think  it 
decent,  and  perhaps  they  have  hitherto 
found  it  politick,  to  argue  that  all  otner 
men  are  equally  deftitute  of  talents  and 
virtue.  This  infamous  language,  chaflifed 
as  it  has  been  in  parliament  by  eloquence 
and  refuted  by  example,  would  little  de- 
ferve  the  revival  of  publick  indignation, 
if  it  were  not  one  of  the  immediate 
tenets  of  that  fchifinatick  herefy  in  poli- 
ticks, that  the  King  is  his  own  Minifler. 
All  popularity  of  character,  and  honourable 
connection,  whether  of  nobles  in  a  flate,  or 
of  thofe  talents  and  patriot  virtues  which 
conftitute  true  nobility,  are  eternal  bars  in 
the  way  of  the  arbitrary  fyftem,  which,  it 
has  been  proved,  muft  refult  from  that  fa- 
vourite principle.  The  early  exclufion  of 
Mr.  Pitt  and  introduction  of  the  Earl  of 
Bute,  were  the  firft  bitter  waters  of  that 
fatal  fountain,  which  has  almofl  deluged  the 
rights  and  power  of  the  people.  The  early 
and  continued  fpirit  of  (lander  againfl  every 
thing  virtuous  and  honourable,  firft  went 

forth 


THE   WHIG.  221 

forth  from  the  new  cabinet  againft  that 
great  and  popular  man  :  becaufe  his  great- 
nefs  and  popularity  flood  in  the  way  of  the 
new  principle,  that  the  King  was  to  be  his  own 
Minifter.  The  perfecution  and  profcription 
from  royal  favour  of  the  whig-families  and 
connexions  of  England,  has  been  uniform  ; 
unlefs  in  one  or  two  exceptions,  the  fliort 
period  of  which  has  only  ferved  to  prove  the 
rule,  that  whig-principles  are  inconfiflent 
with  the  new  Toryifm,  that  the  King  is  hi* 
own  Minifter. 

It  is  neceffary  for  the  people  of  England, 
rifing  as  they  now  are  with  yeoman-virtue 
throughout  the  country,  in  vindication  of 
their  •  ancient  rights  in  their  property  and 
liberty,  to  beware  of  the  full  extent  of  this 
malignant  principle.  In  its  full  extent,  it 
fubverts  every  fecurity  of  publick  liberty, 
while  the  forms  of  the  conftitution  remain. 
If  the  King  be  his  own  Minifter,  and  if 
thofe  who  fill  the  offices  of  flate  be,  as  Lord 
Sandwich  and  Lord  North  affirm,  merely 
executive ;  all  due  and  regular  refponfibility 
is  loft.  Thirteen  provinces  and  the  fleet  of 

England 


222  THE    WHIG. 

England  may  be  fold  to  France ;  the  people 
muft  fubmit  to  poverty,  and  hug  their 
eternal  chains;  for  no  change  of  counfel 
can  recover  their  empire,  their  power,  or 
their  liberty.  They  can  infufe  no  popular 
fupport,  nor  popular  fuccefs  in  confe- 
quence,  into  a  new  Adminiflration ; — for, 
the  King  is  his  own  Minifter.  Obflinate  ad- 
herence, therefore,  to  fuch  a  principle,  in- 
duces the  inevitable  alternative  of  flavery  in 
the  people,  or  the  perfonal  refponfibility  of 
Majefty.  The  latter  has  a  precedent  in  our 
hiftory ;  the  former  has  no  example. 

March,  1780. 


(No. 


THE    WHIG.  223 


(No.g.) 

So  when  any  of  the  four  pillars  of  government  are 
mainly  Jhaken  or  weakened,  (which  are  Religion, 
Jujlice,  Connfelj  and  Treafure,}  men  had  need  to 
pray  for  fair  weather. 

LORD  Bacon  well  knew  that  the  defini- 
tion of  terms  is  neceflary,  in  proportion  to 
the  importance  of  the  ideas  they  fignify,  and 
therefore  was  careful  to  explain  their  mean- 
ing in   the  important  inftance   before   us. 
The  paflions  and  political  manners  of  men 
being  alike  in  all  ages,  the  fame  caution  is 
no  lefs  requifite  to  modern  politicians,  than 
to  the  hiftorian  of  Empfon  and  Dudley.    For 
this  purpofe,    it  would  prevent  much  per- 
plexity  in   difcourfe,    if  all    men   enjoyed 
the  fame  advantages  of  political  accuracy 
that  the    royal   family    has    received.      At 
St.  James's,    I  fuppofe,   for  inftance,  they 
underftand  perfectly  what  puzzles  a  country 
gentleman,  that  the  only  patriotifm  is  ambi- 
tion of  power.     For  fo  it  is  there  profefled 
to  be,  in  the  patriot  of  the  court ;  and  un- 

derftood, 


224  THE 

derftood,  therefore,  naturally  enough  by  the 
confcious  courtier,  to  be  the  fame  in  the 
patriots  of  the  people.  The  country  wants 
alfo  an  edicl  definitive  of  whiggifm;  for 
what  contradiction  and  counteraction  may 
not  enfue  from  the  prefent  miflakes?  If, 
for  example,  the  Archbifhop  of  York,  and 
the  Baronet  of_Yorkfhire,  were  to  difcufs 
that  fubjeft,  what  a  pleafant  play  it  would 
be  at  crofs  purpofes  ?  While  the  whig- 
creed  of  his  Grace  anathematifed  the  name 
of  "  liberty/*  and  configned  its  raving  advo- 
cates to  the  flrait-waiftcoat ;  Sir  George's 
ignorance,  uninftrufted  by  this  accurate 
political  prelate,  might  imagine  Archbifhop 
Laud  a  due  expiation  for  the  errors  of  the 
Prince,  and  the  violated  rights  of  the 
people. 

Above  all,  it  is  neceflary,  at  this  moment, 
the  publick  mould  underftand  the  court- 
conftruclion  of  fedition  and  rebellion. 

As  the  right  reverend  authority  I  have 
quoted,  ttas  defined  Liberty  to  nothing ;  an- 
other high  authority,  afecretis  of  the  crown, 
has  explained  to  the  people  their  crime  in 
imagining  they  had  any  right  in  their  pro- 


THE   WHIG.  225 

perty.  The  2Oth  of  George  III.  explains  * 
and  amends  the  25th  of  old  Edward ;  and 
we  are  now  taught,  from  the  foot  of  the 
throne,  that  to  petition  the  legiflature  for 
publick  oeconomy,  is  factious  and  feditious ; 
that  to  confult  and  confer  towards  pro- 
moting the  object  of  fuch  petitions,  is  rebel- 
lious and  treafonable.  The  experience  of 
this  aufpicious  Minifter  in  fubje&s  of  this 
nature,  has  happily  recommended  him  to 
power,  at  a  period,  when  a  temper  Jefs  mo- 
derate than  his  Lordfhip's,  or  principles  lefs 
popular,  might  have  inflamed  the  people  to 
fome  dangerous  exertion  of  refentment. 

Other  terms  of  art  remain,  which  happily 
begin  to  be  better  underftood.  The  appella- 
tion of  King's  friends,  which  at  firft  created 
fome  confufion,  while  popularity  lingered 
in  the  circle,  is  now  known  to  be  fynoni- 
mous  with  the  enemies  of  the  people.  This 
fpeeial  definition  is  admitted  on  all  fides  ; 
and  it  is  extremely  ufeful  in  the  prefent 
political  difcuffions.  When  the  term  occurs, 
we  can  argue  upon  it  clearly  ;  and  when  the 
perfons  and  their  principles  come  forward 
to  the  publick,  we  can  a£t  decifively  :  we 

VOL.  i.  Q  know 


226  THE   WHIG. 

know  what  we  have  to  encounter ;  we  fee 
what  we  mud  fubdue. 

It  is  in  this  fpirit  of  clearnefs  and  decifion 
that  the  people  mud  co-operate  with  their 
friends  againfl  their  enemies.  And  it  is  with 
perfect  fincerity  that  I  pay  riiy  poor  tribute 
of  gratitude  to  the  minifters  of  corruption 
and  the  abettors  of  arbitrary  power,  for  their 
publick  profeflion  at  laft  of  their  caufe  and 
their  principles ;  for  the  opportunity  they 
have  given  us  of  encountering  them  fairly. 
They  (train  every  nerve  of  power,  they  ex- 
haufl  every  fource  of  influence,  openly  and 
avowedly  againft  the  voice  of  the  people. 
I  will  not  praife  their  prudence ;  but  I  ad- 
mire their  boldnefs  in  fuch  a  caufe.  They 
come  down  from  their  Vantage  ground  of 
high  places  and  parliamentary  majorities ; 
they  come  out  of  their  dark  recefles ;  and 
are  hardy  enough  to  meet  the  people  of 
England,  handi  to  hand,  on  the  ground  of 
the  conflitution.  - 

.  In  the  eve  of  fuch  a  conteft,.  though  its 
victorious  iffuc  be  certain  in  favour  of  the 
people,  yet  fuch  muft  be  the  violence  of 
the  ftorm,  that  all  good  men  are  anxious 

in 


.THE  WHIG.  227 

in  their  "  prayers  for  fair  weather."  But  it 
is  almoft  a  defperate  prayer,  if  the  wifdom 
at  the  head  of  my  paper  be  true ;  if  we 
know  that  felf-prefervation  is  the  firft  law ; 
and  if  we  caft  our  eyes  around  us.  When 
we  view  the  great  edifice  of  government; 
and  when,  inftead  of  its  legitimate  fupports 
of  treafure  and  counfel,  and  juftice  and 
religion,  we  fee  Lord  North,  and  Lord 
Mansfield,  and  Lord  Sandwich,  can  we 
doubt  the  danger  ?  is  not  the  ruin  certain^ 
if  we  madly  fubmit  our  fafety  to  fuch  fup- 
port  ? 

It  is  my  purpofe  to  examine  and  detect 
the  refpe6tive  rottennefs  of  thefe  ruinous  pil- 
lars of  our  ftate  ;  to  de.monftrate  its  danger, 
and  the  neceflity  of  aflbciating  firmly  the 
publick  ftrength  to  fave  it  in  its  fall. 

February,  1780. 


o  2  (No, 


228  THE   WHIG, 

(No.  10.) 

Ad  homines. 

L  Have  carefully  collected,  and  now  fub- 
mit  to  publick  attention,  a  few  of  the  fen- 
timents  avowed  by  Minifters  and  their 
friends,  on  the  fubjecl  of  this  day's  debate. 
As  the  debate  will  be  attended  with  confe- 
qutnces,  the  people  fhould  know  the  princi- 
ples of  their  antagonifts ;  the  confequence 
will  then  be  clear  in  argument,  as  to  the 
thing  ;  and  juft  in  faft,  as  to  the  perfon. 

LORD  NORTH.  "The  influence  of  the 
Crown  is  not  too  great — there  are  many 
gentlemen  who  think  it  is  not  great  enough. 
Publick  (economy  is  certainly  extremely  re- 
quifite  to  the  well-being  of  the  Rate ;  and 
the  plan  of  reformation  propofed  by  the 
honourable  gentleman,  is  the  moft  ample, 
the  moft  able,  the  moft  perfect  that  ever  I 
heard :  I  certainly  will  not  oppofe  it  now, 
but  I  do  not  pledge  myfelf  that  I  (hall  not 
oppofe  it  hereafter,"  Accordingly  he  has, 

with 


THE   WHIG.  229 

with  all  his  power,  delayed  and  obftru&ed 
his  progrefs ;  and  nozo  avows  his  oppofi- 
tion  to  every  principle  and  every  part  of  it. 
(Under  this  head  of  his  Lord/hip,  an  inftance 
of  minifterial  ingenuity  ought  to  be  record- 
ed. When  he  loaded  Mr.  Burke,  and  his 
bill  with  praifes,  "  But,  added  this  ingeni- 
ous Minifler,  the  plan  is  totally  diftinft 
from  -the  county  petitions ;  it  is  contrary  to 
the  wifhes  of  the  people."  Then,  my 
Lord,  be  confiflent,  and  permit  it  to  pro- 
ceed ;  for  you  tell  them  and  Sir  George 
Saville,  "  a  flop  muft  be  put  to  their  de- 
mands ;  and  that  the  penfion-lifl  (hall 
neither  be  retrenched  nor  known.") 

LORD  NUGENT.  "  It  would  be  highly 
improper  to  reftore  independency  to  parlia- 
ment, by  lefTening  the  influence  of  the 
crown." 

LORD  MULGRAVE.     "Let  the  people 
and  their  factious  demagogues  take  care,  as 
they  /zave  Jinned  without  provocation,  they 
JJiould  be  punifhed  without  pity." 

LORD  HILLSBOROUGH.  "The  peti- 
tioners are  factious  and  feditious ;  and  their 
proceedings  tend  to  anarchy  and  rebellion." 

(But, 


230  THE  WHIG. 

(But,  to  do  this  noble  Lord  juftice,  circular 
letters  are  not  the  only  record  he  would 
falfify  or  evade.  He  endeavoured  lafl 
Monday  to  retract  his  words  ;  and  mark 
how  he  mended  the  matter !  "  we  (hall  for 
ever  perplex  and  deflroy  debate,  if  we  refer 
to  former  days  ;  it  is  impojfible  to  recolleEl 
the  words  of  a  former  debate ;  but  I  am  fare 
I  did  not  ufe  the  word  "  petitioners,"  -I  ufed 
the  word  petitions,  and  /  only  faid,  that  the 
motion  of  the  noble  Lord  (Lord  Shelburne) 
would  produce  factious  petitions.) 

LORD  STORMONT.  "  It  is  the  moft 
unconflitutional  attempt,  contrary  to  the 
bill  of  rights,  &c.  &c.  &c.  for  the  people,  or 
any  affembly  of  the  people,  or  any  man 
among  the  people  (take  care,  Mr.  Fox)  to 
influence  parliament  by  reference  to,  or 
comments  on,  their  debates.  The  influence 
of  the  Crown,  in  the  exercife  of  its  difcretion, 
is  not  cognizable  by  Parliament;  for  it 
would  ceafe  to  be  a  difcretional  exercife,  if  it 
were  fubjecl,  to  parliamentary  difcujfion" 

LORD  BAT  HURST.  "  Whatever  county 
meetings  may  be  held,  whatever  ajjbciations  of 
the  people  may  be  carrying  on,  I  (hall  think 


THE  WHIG.  231 

it  my  duty  (he  is  Prefident  of  the  Council!) 
to  oppofe  whatever  tends  to  fubvert,  the 
constitution,  and  (hake  the  crown  on  the 
head  of  his  prefent  Majefty." 

LORD  T H  u  R  L  o  w .  "  I  admit  economi- 
cal reform  is  the  wim  of  the  people, — in 
general;  but  not  with  the  particularity  that 
is  pretended:  for  I  deny  that  the  perfons 
whofe  names  are  annexed  to  the  petitions 
that  are  hawked,  about  from  alehoufe  to  ale- 
houfe,  have  or  can  have  knowledge  of 
the  objects  that  the  refpetlive  claufes  re- 
gard. That  Rich  perfons  mould  have 
knowledge^  of  fuch  a  nature !  It  is  not  pof- 
fible;  and  that's  one  reafon,  my  Lords,  that 
it  is  not  true.  Of  the  influence  of  the  Crown, 
it  will  be  difficult  to  prove  that  it  is  greater 
now  than  in  the  reign  of  King  William,  Let 
it  /land,  that  the  fituation  of  the  great  branch 
of  our  legillative,  inverted  as  it  is  with  exe- 
cutive power,  the  gift  and  the  taking  away 
of  great  and  numerous  places,  is  and  mufl  be 
ajituation  of  great  power  and  influence" 

LORD  CHATHAM.     "  If  they  thus  pcr- 

fevere    in   mifleading   and   mifadvizing  the 

King,  I  will  not  fay  that  they  can  alienate  the 

\  affections 


032  THE  WHIG. 

affeftions  of  his  fubjefts  from  his  crown,  but 
I  will  affirm,  that  they  will  make  the  crown 
not  worth  his  wearing.  I  will  not  fay  that 
the  King  is  betrayed,  but  I  will  pronounce, 
that  the  kingdom  is  undone? 

March,  1780. 


(No.  11.) 

To  the  Right  Honourable  the  Lords  Spi- 
ritual and  Temporal  of  England,  and  the 
Sixteen  Peers  of  Scotland. 

— Not  as  a  boundary  between  the  power  of  the 
Prince,  and  the  weaknefs  of  the  People,  but  as 
the  link  which  connefts  them  both. 

MY  LORDS, 

URGENT  as  the  bufmefs  of  the  time  has 
been,  fince  I  had  the  honour  of  addreffing 
the  noble  and  learned  Speaker  of  your 

Aflembly, 


THE  WHIG.  233 

AfTembly,  I  prefume  that  apology  is  re- 
quifite  rather  for  my  long  omiflion  than  my 
prefent  attention  to  your  Lordlhips.  Now, 
indeed,  it  were  unpardonable  not  to  advert 
to  the  eventful  importance  of  your  fitua- 
tion :  and  of  whatever  conduct  you  (hall 
be  pleafed  to  purfue.  You  hold  at  this 
moment  the  balance  of  peace  in  England. 

But  before  we  confider  the  extraordina- 
ry opportunity  of  your  prefent  power,  it 
may  be  proper  to  pay  fome  attention  not 
only  to  your  prefent  but  your  former  and 
uniform  character,  in  order  to  remove  fome 
extraordinary  fufpicions  which  have  moft 
unjuftly  been  imagined  againft  you.  Your 
Lordfhips  wrould  hardly  conceive  the 
ftrange  nature  of  thefe  fcandals,  if  you  had 
not  received  fome  knowledge  of  them  from 
an  exalted  and  learned  perfon  among  your- 
felves.  Peers  of  ancient  rank,  the  faith- 
ful reprefentatives  of  illuftrious  and  whigv 
predeceffors,  could  fcarcely  believe  that  im- 
putations were  entertained  againft  them  of 
a  defign  to  impair  the  juft  power  of  the 
Crown,  and  to  undermine  the  throne  that 
their  anceftors  had  eflablifhed;  'till  they 

had 


234  THE   WHIG. 

had  the  aftonifhing  proof  of  a  formal  ac- 
cufation,  from  the  keeper  of  his  Majefly's 
confcience.  Other  of  your  Lordfhips, 
whofe  political  opinion  and  wifhes,  on  mo- 
tives of  honourable  convi&ion,  doubtlefs 
have  concurred  with  the  fentiments  of  the 
court  rather  more  than  the  whig  families 
of  the  country  have  found  proper  to  do,  mufl 
have  been  at  leaft  equally  furprifed,  to  hear 
of  the  immediate  danger  to  monarchy,  from 
the  hoftile  encroachments  of  the  nobles. 
How  did  the  meek  fpirit  of  the  Right  Re- 
verend Bench  wonder  at  the  new  revela- 
tions of  the  learned  Lord ;  when  inftead  of 
their  wonted  chiidian  fubjettion  to  the  pow- 
ers that  be,  they  found  themfelves  metarnor- 
phofed  into  '•'  a  four  ariftocracy;"  con- 
federated with  the  Sixteen  Peers  of  Scot- 
land, againft  the  head  of  the  church  and 
Sovereign  of  the  State.  Fortunately  thefe 
charges  furnim  their  own  refutation  in  the 
immediate  confequence  they  are  intended 
to  produce ;  for  while  this  great  criminal 
judge  of  equity  arraigns  you  of  fuch  dan- 
gerous defigns  againft  the  King's  power,  he 
infers  and  is  always  juflified,  in  facl,  how- 
ever 


THE  WHIG.  235 

ever  ftrange  the  argument  may  feem,  that 
you  are,  therefore,  to  fubmit  your  honour 
and  parliamentary  independence  to  the  ab- 
folute  and  unqueftionable  difcretion  of  the 
Crown.  The  four  ariftocracy  with  which 
he  begins  his  procefs  foon  lofes  its  acefcent 
quality,  and  refolves  at  lalt  into  all  the 
fweets  of  fubmiflion. 

In  juftice  to  the  publick,  of  which  your 
Lordmips  conftitute  fo  honoured  a  part,  I 
have  defired  to  vindicate  your  innocence,  as 
it  deferves,  againft  thefe  injurious  afper- 
fions ;  and  I  truft  that  the  other  infinuations 
of  that  learned  perfon  againft  your  honour, 
ingredients,  as  it  were,  of  the  four  arifto- 
cracy which  he  fuppofed,  will  be  found 
equally  groundlefs.  I  cannot  conceive,  for 
inftance,  the  Firft  Lord  of  the  Treafury, 
whom  he  defpifes  and  defends,  is  authorifed, 
by  the  example  of  any  of  your  Lorfhips, 
to  fight,  at  the  head  of  rotten  boroughs,  a- 
gainji  the  counties  of  England.  "  When  the 
lapfe  of  time,"  as  the  learned  Lord  exprefT- 
ed  it,  devolves  to  individual  noblemen  a 
power  of  nominating  members  of  Parlia- 
ment, though  fome  of  his  friendfhips  may 

have 


THE    WHIG. 

have  afforded  him  much  electioneering  ex- 
perience; yet  I  can  fcarcely  believe  even 
his  learned  authority,  that  any  of  your 
Lordfhips  would  fight  your  rotten  boroughs, 
or  fabricate  your  rotten  protefts,  againfl 
the  landed  interefts  and  landed  fenfe  of 
England.  Let  us  rather  fuppofe,  accord- 
ing to  fome  examples  which  this  country 
gratefully  acknowledges,  that  when  fuch 
patronage  veils  in  the  perfons  of  the  nobles, 
it  will  be  exercifed,  not  more  for  their  own 
honour,  than  for  the  happinefs  of  the  peo- 
ple :  let  us  hope,  in  conformity  to  thofe 
illuftrious  examples,  that  the  nobles  of  this 
country  forget  not  they  are  citizens,  but 
that,  feeling  the  fpirit  of  popularity  pervade 
their  order,  as  it  muft  pervade  and  animate 
every  order  in  a  free  government,  they 
gladly  reciprocate  to  the  people  authority 
and  fupport;  knowing  that  the  befl  exer- 
tion of  their  influence  for  the  publick  caufe, 
is  to  eftablifh  their  firm  connection  on  the 
ground  of  honour,  cemented  only  by  pub- 
lick  and  confident  principle.  Such  nobles 
think  it  their  bed  fervice  to  fill  their  pha- 
lanx, and  fight  under  the  fame  banner,  with 

the 


THE  WHIG.  237 

the  beft  abilities  and  virtues  of  the  country  ; 
with  men,  whofe  unremitted  and  unrev/arded 
labours,  in  every  capacity  they  have  flood 
in,  have  given  honour  to  private  ftation, 
and  profeflion,  and  added  luftre  to  the  moft 
illuftrious. 

When  fuch  connexions  are  fo  confirmed, 
they  are  too  ftrong  for  the  ambition  of 
power  to  break,  and  too  virtuous  for  cor- 
ruption to  undermine,  or  for  calumny  to 
traduce.  They  are  in  its  true  and  genuine 
fenfe,  the  ariftocracy  of  a  free  country,  or, 
as  a  modern  eloquent  authority  well  defined 
it,  the  union  of  the  beft  men  againjl  the  worft, 
in  fupport  of  the  rights  both  of  the  Crown 
and  the  People.  They  are  not  that  mon- 
ftrous  and  baftard  ariftocracy,  four  indeed, 
and  bitter  both  to  the  people  and  the  prince ; 
which  would  fubdue  both  to  its  own  ava- 
rice and  ambition,  which  forbore  not  to  in- 
fult  the  perfon  of  majefty  in  gratification  of 
its  own  pride,  as  it  has  uniformly  trampled 
on  the  liberties  of  England  in  purfuance  of 
the  Scotch  fyftem.  Of  fuch  an  ariftocracy, 
if  any  disjeEla  membra  yet  remain ;  if  fome 
have  pretended  to  feparate  from  counfels,  in, 

which 


238  THE  WHIG. 

which  they  profefs  no  man  of  confcience  or 
honour  can  aft,  and  yet  continue  in  effe6t 
to  fupport  thofe  counfels  ;  if  others,  with 
the  completed  contempt  for  the  perfon  of 
the  Minifter,  as  eminent  and  high-minded 
talents  mufh  contemn  difhonour,  yet  con- 
tinue to  fcreen  his  meafures  from  publick 
indignation  ;  if  they  defend  him  by  decrying 
the  publick  voice,  and  vilifying  the  petitions 
of  the  people,  avowing  the  increafed  and  in- 
creafing  influence  of  the  crown  againfl  the 
independency  of  parliament,  your  country 
conjures  you,  my  Lords,  to  beware  of  fuch 
men.  Maintain  the  true  honours  of  your 
Houfe,  the  noble  and  hereditary  eftate  of 
a  free  Legiflature,  againfl  fuch  men  and 
fuch  conduct. 

The  importance  of  this  confideration  of 
your  Lordfhips'  character,  facred  as  it  ought 
to  be  without  doors  as  well  as  within,  has 
led  me  into  greater  length  than  I  forefaw. 
For  the  prefent,  therefore,  I  poftpone  my 
other  confideration  of  the  extraordinary  and 
eventful  fituation  in  which  your  Lordfhips 
at  prefent  ftand.  I  poftpone  it  the  more 
willingly,  becaufe  this  day  will  complete  the 

meafure 


THE    WHIG.  239 

meafure  of  its  importance.  The  reprefen- 
tatives  of  the  people,  as  the  Houfe  of  Com- 
mons have  at  laft  approved  themfelves?  will 
this  day  again  defeat  the  Minifter  of  the 
Crown.  It  will  then  be  in  the  wifdom  of 
your  Lordfliips  to  decide  between  the  de- 
fpair  of  defpotifm  and  the  triumph  of  popu- 
larity ;  to  flatter  with  a  faint  and  falfe  hope 
the  gafps  of  ambition,  or  to  facilitate  and 
partake,  what  you  cannot  prevent,  TIIK 

VICTORY   OF    THE  PEOPLE. 
March  20,  1780. 


THE 


24®  THE   WHIG. 

THE  WHIG's  ADDRESS. 

T  O 

The  Memorabk  Hundred  &  Eighty-eight*. 
GENTLEMEN, 


S  you  do  not  yet  know  the  duty  of 
the  day,  permit  me  to  pre-occupy  your 
attention  with  a  few  obfervations  on  the  na- 
ture of  the  fervice  you  may  poflibly  be 
ordered  upon,  and  to  reprefent  to  your 
intereft  the  alternative  confequence  of  your 
obedience  or  difobedience  to  fuch  orders. 

A  bill  has  been  brought  into  parliament, 
to  effeft  a  reformation  in  the  publick  ceco- 

*  The  number  of  members  of  the  Houfe  of  Commons 
who  voted  againft  Sir  George  Saville's  motion,  for  a  lift  of 
all  the  fubfifting  penfions  granted  by  the  Crown.  The 
motion  was  made  on  theijthday  of  February,  1780;  but 
by  the  {"udderi  illnefs  of  the  Speaker,  the  debate  was  poft- 
poned  to  the  2ift  of  the  lame  month ;  when  the  motion 
was  negatived  by  a  majority  of  TWO  only  ;  the  minority 
being  186,  and  the  majority  188. 

i  nomy. 


THE    WHIG.  241 

nomy,  both  of  the  purfe  and  the  govern- 
ment of  the  flate.  That  a  bill,  whofe  direft 
objects  are  the  property  and  liberty  of  the 
people,  fhould  be  the  anxious  hope  of  a 
people  impoverifhed,  and  almoft  enflaved, 
is  not  extraordinary.  That  a  bill,  of  fuch  a 
defcription,  is  the  antipathy  of  a  corrupted 
and  corrupting  Adminiftration,  is  certain. 
Fear,  however,  compelled  their  acquiefcence 
in  the  firft  inftance  ;  and  it  was  determined, 
(moil  of  you  now  know  it)  only  to  fugged 
delay ;  to  wait  for  occafion ;  and  to  feize 
the  firft  that  fhould  offer,  of  annihilating 
the  bill ;  when  it  was  hoped  that  the  popu- 
lar anxiety  might  have  fubfided.  The 
vigilance  of  the  people,  and  the  people's 
friends,  has  hitherto  baffled  the  Minifter ; 
and  now  he  is  driven  to  the  wall.  He  is  in 
the  forlorn  hope  to-day.  He  will  either 
attempt  fome  oppofition  to  its  fecond  read- 
ing, (for  you  know  that  his  promife  of  the 
contrary  is  nothing ;)  or  he  will  oppofe  its 
being  committed  immediately  ;  or  he  will  at 
once  give  up  the  conteft,  and  flrike  to  the 
people  of  England,  as  he  has  done  to  Ame- 
VOL.  i.  R  rica 


242  THE   WHIG. 

rica  and  Ireland.  If  the  latter  event  takes 
place,  my  expoflulation  is  unneceflary ;  but 
if  he  attempt  either  of  the  former,  or  in  any 
form  of  procraftination  endeavour  to  ob- 
ftruft  the  progrefs  of  the  bill,  confider  the 
certain  confequence  of  your  fupporting  him 
in  a  majority.  It  will  be  this  : — 

The  committees  of  correfpondence, 
throughout  the  counties  of  England,  will 
inftantly  communicate  the  fact,  with  all  its 
circumftance  and  explanation;  the  nature 
of  the  bill,  and  the  nature  of  its  rejection ; 
with  an  exact  account  of  the  names  and  fitu- 
ation  of  the  men  who  reject  it.  England 
will  then  fee  that  thofe,  and  almoft  only 
thofe,  who  either  hold  places  under  the 
Crown,  receive  penfions  from  the  Minifter, 
or  have  invaded  us  from  the  northern  part 
of  the  ifland,  are  the  perfons  who  confpire 
againft  the  property  and  liberty  of  the  peo- 
ple. I  would  rather  leave  to  your  imagi- 
nation all  the  confequences  of  fuch  a  contem- 
plation :  but  as  probably  you  do  not  yet 
'know  much  of  the  committed  fpirit  of  the 
country,  it  may  be  fair  to  advife  you,  that 

very 


THE  WHIG.  243 

very  poflibly  they  may  proceed  to  vote  you 
enemies  to  this  country,  and  not  the  repre- 
fentatives  of  the  people. 

With  more  pleafure,  and  fewer  words, 
let  me  exhort  your  attention  to  the  honour- 
able and  the  fafe,  and  in  point  even  of  in- 
tereft,  the  wife  alternative.  Break  the  dif- 
graceful  chains  that  have  fo  long  bound  you 
to  an  abandoned  Adminiftration;  and  retain 
from  the  forgivenefs  of  the  people  what  you 
cannot  longer  withhold  from  their  indigna- 
tion. Not  the  gifts,  but  the  givers  have  dif- 
graced  you.  Your  places,  your  penfions,  even 
the  country  of  fomeofyou,  cannot  juflly  fub- 
jecl:  you  to  pofitive  reproach.  It  is  only  as 
they  have  inclined  and  debafed  you  into  infa- 
mous fervility,  that  they  have  grown  prover- 
bial in  the  contempt  of  mankind.  But  in 
prudence,  if  not  in  honour,  affume  the  virtue 
if  you  have  it  not ;  nor  longer  devote  your- 
felves  to  common  ruin  with  the  falling  edifice 
of  corruption.  It  fhakes  already  to  its  foun- 
dation ;  the  breath  of  the  people  will  level 
it  for  ever. 


R  2  GENUINE 


GENUINE    ABSTRACTS 

FROM 

TWO     SPEECHES 

- 

OF  THE   LATE 

EARL     OF      CHATHAM, 

AND 

HIS  REPLY  TO  THE  EARL  OF  SUFFOLK. 


PREFACE  AND  NOTES. 


Quanta  majis  admirareminit  ft  audijfitis  ipfum  ! 

^Efchines  de  Demofthene,  CiV,  de  Oratorf. 


[Thefe  Abftracls  were  originally  printed  for  J.  Dodfley, 
in  the  year  1779.  And  they  have  fince  been  re-pub- 
lilhed,  without  the  Preface,  by  Mr.Almon,  in  his  Anec- 
dotes of  Lord  Chatham's  Life.  But  as  the  Preface  is 
too  clofely  connected  with  the  Abftracls  to  be  publifhcd 
feparately,  as  it  is  in  truth  an  animated  pifture  of  the 
manner  in  which  thefe  celebrated  fpeeches  were  deli- 
vered, and  as  the  one  has  been  no  lefs  admired  for  its 
elegance,  than  the  others  have  aftonifhed  all  who  heard 
the  noble  fpeaker,  for  their  extraordinary  accuracy,  it 
were  an  injuftice  to  the  MEMORY  of  Mr.  Boyd,  to 
omit  them  in  a  colleftion  of  his  Works.] 


PREFACE 

B  Y 

MR.    B  O  Y  D. 


1  H  E  Editor  of  the  following  Abflra£b 
hopes,  that  fome  introductory  explanation 
will  not  be  unacceptable,  of  the  manner  in 
which  they  have  been  preferved,  and  the 
allowances  with  which  they  fhould  be  read. 

Soon  after  the  refpeclive  dates  of  their 
delivery,  he  was  favoured  with  the  manu- 
fcript  copies,  by  the  gentleman  whofe  me- 
mory had  ferved  him  fufficiently  to  commit 
them  to  writing.— with  an  exa61nefs  unufual 
in  the  recital  of  publick  debates.  For,  if 
the  reader  were  fortunate  enough  to  have 
heard  them  pronounced,  he  will  here  recol- 
left,  not.  only  the  fubftance,  but  in  great 
meafure,  the  form  and  phrafe  in  which  they 
were  fpoken. 

It  mutt  be  obferved,  that  this  recital  pro- 
feflcs  to  extend  only  to  parts  of  the  fpeeches 

actually 


1248  MR.   BOYD'S   PREFACE. 

actually  delivered  by  Lord  Chatham.  It  is 
not  perhaps  within  poffibility,  that  the  un- 
aflifted  memory  of  one  perfon  mould  retain, 
verbatim,  the  whole  of  fuch  fpeeches.  But 
the  Editor  knows  it  was  the  wifh  and  care 
of  his  friend,  faithfully  to  reprefent  as  much 
as  was  poflible  of  the  great  original ;  fub- 
mitting  to  give  an  incomplete  rather  than  a 
fpurious  likenefs.  It  was  particularly  his 
ftudy  to  preferve  the  genuine  diction  of  the 
noble  fpeaker  ;— as,  of  all  the  characlerif- 
tick  features  by  which  his  oratory  was  dif- 
tinguifhed,  none  was  more  eminent  than  the 
bold  purity  and  claffical  force  of  his  phrafe- 
ology. — It  was  fo  ftrong  and  fingular  as  to 
deferve,  and  at  the  fame  time  to  facilitate, 
an  exa6i  recollection. 

For  the  authenticity  of  thefe  Abftrafts,  it 
were  perhaps  fufficient  to  refer  to  themfelves : 
their  peculiar  energy  of  ftyle  and  fentiment, 
is  their  belt  authentication.  But,  befides 
this  internal  evidence,  the  Editor  has  alfo 
the  fatisfa&ion  of  afluring  the  Publick,  that 
the  concurring  approbation  of  many  accu- 
rate and  refpedable  judges  have  given  fanc- 

tion 


MR.  BOYD'S   PREFACE.  249 

tion  to  the  faithfulnefs  of  his  friend's  repre- 
fentation — as  far  as  it  extends. 

It  may  be  proper  to  obferve,  that  from 
poilerior  recollection  of  fome  paflages,  and 
revival  of  a  few  others  in  his  memory,  by 
converfation,  or  defultory  hints  in  news- 
papers, the  Editor's  friend  could  have 
greatly  increafed  the  bulk  of  thefe  tran- 
fcripts  ;  and  correctly  too,  as  to  matter  ;  but 
the  mode  of  exprelfion  was  loft.  Fugerat 
irrevocable  verbum.  And  he  was  as  un- 
willing to  interpolate  any  language  of  his 
own,  as  he  was  unable  to  render  it  confid- 
ent with  the  genuine  ftyle  of  the  great  ori- 
ginal *. 

But  the  candour  and  imagination  of  the 
reader  muft  fupply  another  deficiency  in 
our  reprelentation  of  Lord  Chatham's  ora- 
tory, more  affe&ing  our  purpofe  of  exhibit- 
ing its  true  likenefs,  than  the  partial  imper- 

*  This,  it  is  hoped,  will  be  fufficient  apology  to  the 
reader,  for  the  abruptnefs  in  the  beginning  of  the  firft 
fpeech  ;  which  the  Editor's  friend  unfortunately  did  not 
hear,  and  would  not  prefume  to  fupply. — Before  he  came 
into  the  houfe,  Lord  Chathani  had  been  fpeaking  for 
fume  time. 

feftion 


250  MR.  BOYD'S   PREFACE. 

feftion  we  have  mentioned. — Thofe  who 
have  been  witnefles  to  the  wonders  of  his 
eloquence — who  have  liftened  to  the  mufick 
of  his  voice,  or  trembled  at  its  majefty — 
who  have  feen  the  perfuafive  gracefulnefs  of 
his  action,  or  have  felt  its  force; — thofe 
who  have  caught  the  flame  of  eloquence 
from  his  eye — who  have  rejoiced  in  the  glo- 
ries of  his  countenance — or  fhrunk  from  his 
frowns,— will  remember  the  refiftlefs  power 
with  which  he  impreffed  conviclion.  In 
thefe  (ketches  of  his  original  genius,  they 
will  read  what  they  have  heretofore  heard  ; 
and  their  memory  will  give  due  a6Hon  to  the 
picture,  by  refiguring  to  their  minds  what 
they  have  with  admiration  feen. — But,  to 
thofe  who  never  heard  nor  faw  this  accom- 
pliftied  orator,  the  utmofl  effort  of  imagina- 
tion will  be  neceflary,  to  form  a  juft  idea  of 
that  combination  of  excellence,  which  gave 
perfection  to  his  eloquence :— his  elevated 
afpecl:,  commanding  the  awe  and  mute  at- 
tention of  all  who  beheld  him  ;  whilft  a 
certain  grace  in  his  manner,  confcious  of  all 
the  dignities  of  his  fituation,  of  the  folemn 
fcene  he  acled  in,  as  well  as  his  own  exalted 

characler. 


MR.  BOYD  S   PREFACE.  25! 

chara&er,  feemed  to  acknowledge  and  repay 
the  refpeft  he  received : — his  venerable  form, 
bowed   with  infirmity  and  age  ;    but   ani- 
mated by  a  mind  which  nothing  could  fub- 
due  ; — his  fpirit  mining  through  him,  arm- 
ing his  eye  with  lightning,   and  cloathing 
his  lips  with  thunder  ; — or,  if  milder  topics 
offered,    harmonifmg    his    countenance    in 
fmiles,  and  his   voice  in  foftnefs ; — for  the 
compafs  of  his  powers  was  infinite.     As  no 
idea  was  too  vaft,  no  imagination  too  fub- 
lime,  for  the  grandeur  and  majefty  of  his 
manner ;  fo  no  fancy  was  too   playful,  nor 
any  allufion  too  comic,   for  the  eafe  and 
gayety  with  which  he  could  accommodate  to 
the  occafion.     But  the  character  of  his  ora- 
tory was  dignity  :  this  prefidcd  throughout ; 
giving  force,  becaufe  fecuring  refpeft,  even 
to   his  fallies  of  pleafantry.     This  elevated 
the  moll  familiar  language,  and  gave  novelty 
and  grace  to  the  mod  familiar  allufions  ;  fo 
that,  in  his  hand,  even  the  crutch  became 
a  weapon  of  oratory  *. 

This 

*  Telum  Orafon's,   Cic. — "  You   talk,   my  Lords,  ot 
"  conquering  America — of  your  numerous  friends  there, 

"to 


2^2  MR.  BOYD  S   PREFACE. 

This  extraordinary  perfonal  dignity,  fup- 
ported   on  the    bafis    of    his    well-earned 
fame,  at  once  acquired  to  his  opinions  an 
aflent  which  is  (lowly  given  to  the  argument 
of  other  men.      His    aflertions    rofe    into 
proof;    his   forefight  became   prophecy.— 
Befides  the  general  fan&ion  of  his  character, 
and  the  decifive  dignity  with  which  he  pro- 
nounced his  fentiments,    it    was    alfo    well 
known  that  he  carefully  cultivated  the  moil 
authehtick  channels  of  intelligence.     And  it 
was  an  additional   and  juft  praife  to  him, 
that  he  exerted  the  great  influence  of  his 
name,  and  his  other  opportunities,  to  invef- 
tigate  the  pureft  fources  of  political  infor- 
mation.    But  as  the  activity  of  his  publick 
zeal  ftimulated  him  to  fuch  exertion  ;  fo  the 
fuperiority   of  his    genius  directed  him   to 
higher  fources.      For  other  men,  even   the 
mechanical  medium  of  official  knowledge  is 
a  fphere  too  laborious.     Though  Lord  Chat- 
ham's duty  did  not  difdain,  his  fpirit  foared 
above  fuch   little   adventitious  advantages. 

"  to  annihilate  the  Congrefs — and  your  powerful  forces 
'*  to  difperfe  her  army  : — /  might  as  ivell  talk  of  driving 
"  them  before  me  with  this  crutch."  LORD  CHATHAM. 

His 


MR.  BOYD  S   PREFACE.  253 

His  was  intelligence  in  a  truer  fenfe,  and 
from  the  noblefl  fource  ; — "  from  his  own 
fagacious  mind  *."  His  intuition,  like  faith, 
feemed  fuperior  to  the  common  forms  of 
reafoning.  No  clue  was  neceffary  to  the 
labyrinth  illuminated  by  his  genius.  Truth 
came  forth  at  his  bidding,  and  realifed  the 
wifh  of  the  philofopher : — (he  was  feen  and 
beloved. 

It  is  by  no  means  in  the  intention  or  the 
limits  of  this  paper,  and  ilill  lefs  within  the 
abilities  of  the  writer,  to  analyfe  all  the 
oratory  of  Lord  Chatham,  or  give  a  full 
and  juft  defcription  of  excellence  fo  various. 

*  He  is  his  own  beft  expofitor.  In  a  debate,  1770,  on 
the  papers  relative  to  Falkland's  Ifland,  he  explained  this 
fubjecl,  for  the.  benefit  of  minifters.  "  Let  them  not  fcreen 
"  themfelves  behind  the  want  of  intelligence  :— they  had 
"  intelligence: — I  know  they  had  : — If  they  had  not, 
"  they  are  criminal ;  and  their  cxcufe  is  their  crime. — 
11  But  I  will  tell  thefe  young  minifters  the  true  fource 
*'  of  intelligence :  It  is  fagacity  ; — fagacity  to  compare 
"  caufes  and  effefts  ;  to  judge  of  the  prefent  ftate  of 
"  things,  and  difcern  the  future,  by  careful  review  of 
4<  the  pad. — Oliver  Cromwell,  who  aftonilhed  mankind 
"  by  his  intelligence,  did  not  derive  it  from  fpies  in  the 
•"  cabinet  of  every  prince  in  Europe ;  he  drew  it  from 
"  the  cabinet  of  his  own  fagacious  mind." 

If 


AIR.    BO  YD  S    PREFACE. 

If  the  few  imperfect  hints  that  have  been 
offered,  can  convey  any  idea  of  the  vigour 
and  animation  of  his  manner,  they  will  have 
attained  their  purpofe :  and  the  remains  of 
his  eloquence  will  afford  proportionate  plea- 
fure ;  "  even  in  his  ajhes  (hall  furvive  their 


GENUINE 


GENUINE  ABSTRACTS, 
&c. 


HOUSE    OF    LORDS. 
Jan.  20,  1775. 

x  H  E  Earl  of  Dartmouth,  then  Secretary 
of  State  for  America,  produced  the  official 
American  papers. 

The  EARL  of  CHATHAM,  after  ftrongly 
inveighing  againfl  the  dilatorinefs  of  admi- 
niflration,  &c.  proceeded  as  follows  : 

—  "  But  as  I  have  not  the  honour  of 
accefs  to  his  Majefty,  I  will  endeavour  to 
tranfmit  to  him,  through  the  conftitutional 
channel  of  this  houfe,  my  ideas  of  America, 
to  refcue  him  from  the  mifadvice  of  his  pre- 
fent  minifters.  I  congratulate  your  Lord- 
fhips  that  the  bufmefs  is  at  loft  entered  upon, 


256  GENUINE   ABSTRACTS 

by  the  noble  Lord's  *  laying  the  papers 
before  you.  As  I  fuppofe  your  Lordfhips 
too  well  apprized  of  their  contents,  I  hope  I 
am  not  premature,  in  fubmitting  to  you  my 
prefent  motion : 

"  That  an  humble  Addrefs  be  prefented 
"  to  his  Majefty,  humbly  to  defire  and  be- 
"  feech  his  Majefty,  that  in  order  to  open 
"  the  way  towards  a  happy  fettlement  of 
"•  the  dangerous  troubles  in  America,  by 
"  beginning  to  allay  ferments  and  foften 
"  animofities  there ;  and  above  all,  for  pre- 
"  venting  in  the  mean  time  any  fudden  and 
"  fatal  cataftrophe  at  Bofton,  now  fuffer- 
"  ing  under  the  daily  irritation  of  an  army 
"  before  their  eyes,  pofted  in  their  town; 
"  it  may  gracioufly  pleafe  his  Majefty  that 
Sl  immediate  orders  may  be  difpatched  to 
'"  General  Gage,  for  removing  his  Majefty 's 
"  forces  from  the  town  of  Bofton  as  foon 
"  as  the  rigour  of  the  feafon,  and  other  cir- 
"  cumftances  indifpenfable  to  the  fafety  and 
"  accommodation  of  the  faid  troops,  may 
"  render  the  fame  practicable." 

*  Lord  Dartmouth. 

Iwifli, 


FROM    TWO    SPEECHES,   <&C.         257 

*'  I  wifh,  my  Lords,  not  to  lofe  a  day  in 
this  urgent  prefling  crifis ;  an  hour  now, 
loft  in  allaying  the  ferment  in  America,  may 
produce  years  of  calamity ;  for  my  own 
part,  I  will  not  defert  for  a  moment  the 
conducl  of  this  mighty  bufinefs,  from  the 
firft  to  the  laft;  unlefs  nailed  to  my  bed 
by  the  extremity  of  ficknefs,  I  will  give  it 
unremitted  attention  ;  I  will  knock  at  the 
door  of  this  fleeping  and  confounded  Mini- 
ftry,  and  will  roufe  them  to  a  fenfe  of  their 
important  danger. 

"  Whenlftate  the  importance  of  the  Colo- 
nies to  this  country,  and  the  magnitude  of 
danger  hanging  over  this  country,  from  the 
prefent  plan  of  mifadminiftration  pra&ifed 
againft  them,  I  defire  not  to  be  underflood 
to  argue  a  reciprocity  of  indulgence  between 
England  and  America.  I  contend  not  for 
indulgence,  but  juftice  to  America :  and  I 
fhall  ever  contend  that  the  Americans  juflly 
owe  obedience  to  us  in  a  limited  degree : — 
they  owe  obedience  to  our  ordinances  of 
trade  and  navigation ;  but  let  the  line  be 
fkilfully  drawn  between  the  objects  of  thofe 
ordinances,  and  their  private  internal  pro- 

VOL.  i.  s  perty; 


0.58  GENUINE   ABSTRACTS 

perty;  let  the  facrednefs  of  their  property 
remain  inviolate;  let  it  be  taxable  only 
by  their  own  confent ;  given  in  their  pro- 
vincial afiemblies; — >elfe,  it  will  ceafe  to 
be  property. — As  to  the  metaphyfical  refine- 
ments attempting  to  fhew  that  the  Ameri- 
cans are  equally  free  from  obedience  and 
commercial  reftraints,  as  from  taxation  for 
revenue,  as  being  unreprefented  here:  I 
pronounce  them  futile,  frivolous,  and 
groundlefs. 

'•"  When  I  urge  this  meafure  of  recalling 
the  troops  from  Boflon,  I  urge  it  on  this 
prefling  principle,  that  it  is  neceffarily  pre- 
paratory to  the  reftoration  of  your  peace, 
and  the  eftablifhment  of  yovur  profperity. — - 
It  will  then  appear  that  you  are  difpofed 
to  treat  amicably  and  equitably  ;  and  to 
confider,  revife,  and  repeal,  if  it  (hall  be 
found  neceflary,  as  I  affirm  it  will,  thofe 
violent  a&s  and  declarations  which  have 
diiFeminated  confufion  throughout  your  em- 
pire. 

"  Refinance  to  your  a£ls  was  neceflary  as 
it  was  jufl;  and  your  vain  declarations  of 
the  omnipotence  of  parliament,  and  your 

imperious 


FROM    TWO    SPEECHES,    &C.         259 

imperious  doftrines  of  the  neceflity  of  fub- 
miflion  will  be  found  equally  impotent  to 
convince  or  enflave  your  fellow  fubje&s  in 
America ;  who  feel  that  tyranny,  whether 
ambitioned  by  an  individual  part  of  the  legi- 
flature  or  the*  bodies  who  compofe  it,  is 
equally  intolerable  to  Britim  fubjefts. 

"  The  means  of  enforcing  this  thraldom 
are  found  to  be  as  ridiculous  and  weak  in 
practice,  at  they  are  unjufl  in  principle. 
Indeed  I  cannot  but  feel  the  mod  anxious 
fenfibility  for  the  fituation  of  General 
Gage,  and  the  troops  under  his  command; 
thinking  him  as  I  do,  a  man  of  humanity 
and  understanding ;  and  entertaining,  as  I 

*  A  favourite  idea  prevailed,  and  was  often  urged  in  ar- 
gument by  Adminiftration,  "  that  abfolute  pafiive  bbedi- 
"  ence  is  due  to  all  poflible  acls  of  the  legiflature,  which 
**  mull  not,  in  any  cafe  whatever,  be  queftioned,  much  lefs 
"  refilled  by  the  people."  Mr.  Locke  thought  other- 
wife  ;  as  his  able  and  conflitutional  expounder,  Lord 
Camden,  has  otten  demonftrated.  But  in  truth,  it  is  a 
point  rather  of  profited  policy. — If,  however,  the  poftu- 
latum  were  admitted  \n  f peculation t  the  inference  will  not 
reach  from  Weftminfter  to  Boflon.  It  will  remain  to  be 
proved,  that  our  lords  fpiritual  and  tanfrorfl?  tave ptfviiegt  in 
America;  and  that  our  Knights,  Citizens,  and  Burgefles, 
are  their  reprefentatives. 

s  2  ever 


26O  GENUINE   ABSTRACTS 

ever  will,  the  higheft  refpeft,  the  warmeft 
love,  for  the  Britifh  troops. — Their  fitua- 
tion  is  truly  unworthy ;  penned  up — pining 
in  inglorious  .inactivity.  They  are  an  army 
of  impotence : — you  may  call  them  an 
army  of  fafety  and  of  guard;  but  they  are 
in  truth  an  army  of  impotence  and  con- 
tempt: and,  to  make  the  folly  equal  to  the 
difgra'ce,  they  are  an  army  of  irritation  and 
vexation.  But  I  find  a  report  creeping 
abroad,  that  the  Minifters  cenfure  General 
Gage's  inactivity:  let  them  cenfure  him — 
it  becomes  them — it  becomes  their  jufticc 
and  their  honour : — /  mean  not  to  cenfure 
his  inactivity  ; — it  is  a  prudent  and  necef- 
fary  inaction :  but  it  is  a  miferable  condi- 
tion, where  difgrace  is  prudence,  and  where 
it  is  neceffary  to  be  contemptible.  This 
tamenefs,  however  contemptible,,  cannot  be 
cenfured ;  for  the  firft  drop  of  blood  fried 
in  civil  and  unnatural  war  might  be  imme- 
dicabile  vulnus. 

"  I  therefore  urge  and  conjure  your  Lord- 
fhips,  immediately  to  adopt  this  conciliating 
meafure; — I  will  pledge  myfelf  for  its  im- 
mediately producing  conciliatory  effe&s,  by 

its 


FROM    TWO    SPEECHES,   &C.         26l 

its  being  thus  well-timed ;  but  if  you  delay 
till  your  vain  hope  (hall  be  accomplished, 
of  triumphantly  dictating  reconciliation, 
you  delay  for  ever.  But  admitting  that 
this  hope,  which  in  truth  is  defperate, 
fhould  be  accomplifhed,  what  do  you  gain 
by  the  impofition  of  your  victorious  ami- 
ty?— you  will  be  untrufted  and  unthanked. 
Adopt  then  the  grace,  while  you  have  the 
opportunity  of  reconcilement ;  or  at  leaft 
prepare  the  way.  Allay  the  ferment  pre- 
vailing in  America,  by  removing  the  ob- 
noxious hoftile  caufe  ; — obnoxious  and  tm- 
ferviceable;  for  their  merit  can  only  be  in 
inaclion  :  "  Non  dimicare  et  vincere :"  their 
victory  can  never  be  by  exertions. — Their 
force  would  be  moft  difproportionately 
exerted  againft  a  brave,  generous,  and  unit- 
ed people  ;  with  arms  in  their  hands 
and  courage  in  their  hearts : — three  mil- 
lions of  people,  the  genuine  defcendants 
of  a  valiant  and  pious  anceftry,  driven 
to  thofe  defarts  by  the  narrow  maxims 
of  a  fuperflitious  tyranny. — And  is  the 
fpirit  of  perfecution  never  to  be  appeafed  ? 

—Are 


262  GENUINE  ABSTRACTS 

. — Are  the  brave  fons  of  thofe  brave  fore- 
fathers to  inherit  their  fufferings,  as  they 
have  inherited  their  virtues?  Are  they  to 
fuflain  the  infliclion  of  the  mofl  oppreflive 
and  unexampled  feverity  ? — beyond  the  ac- 
counts of  hiflory  or  defcription  of  poetry ; 
• — "  Rhadamanthus  habet  durijfima  regna, 
caftigatque,  AUDITQUE:" — fo  fays  thewifefl 
poet,  and  perhaps  the  wifefl  ftatefman 
and  politician : — but  our  Miniflers  fay,  the 
Americans  mujl  not  be  heard.  They  have 
been  condemned  unheard;  the  indifcrimi- 
nating  hand  of  vengeance  has  lumped  to- 
gether innocent  and  guilty;  with  all  the 
formalities  of  hoflility  has  blocked  up  the 
town  *  and  reduced  to  beggary  and  famine 
thirty  thoufand  inhabitants. 

«  But  his  Majefty  is  advifed  that  the  union 
in  America  cannot  lafl.  Miniflers  have 
more  eyes  than  I,  and  mould  have  more 
ears;  but  from  all  the  information  I  have 
been  able  to  procure,  I  can  pronounce  it, 
an  union,  folid,  permanent,  and  effectual.—* 
Miniflers  may  fatisfy  themfelves,  and  delude 

*  Bofton. 

the 


FROM    TWO    SPEECHES,    &C.         263 

the  public,  with  the  report  of  what  they 
call  commercial  bodies  in  America. — They 
are  not  commercial : — they  are  your  pack- 
ers and  factors ;  they  live  upon  nothing — 
for  I  call  commiflion  nothing ; — I  mean  the 
minifterial  authority  for  this  American  in- 
telligence ;  the  runners  for  government,  who 
are  paid  for  their  intelligence.  But  thefe 
are  not  the  men,  nor  this  the  influence,  to 
be  confidered  in  America,  when  we  eflimate 
the  firmnefs  of  their  union.  Even  to  ex- 
tend the  queftion,  and  to  take  in  the  really 
mercantile  circle,  will  be  totally  inadequate 
to  the  coniideration.  Trade  indeed  in- 
creafes  the  glory  and  wealth  of  a  country; 
but  its  real  wealth  and  (lamina  are  to  be 
looked  for  among  the  cultivators  of  the 
land;— ^-in  their  fimplicity  of  life,  is  found 
the  fimplenefs  of  virtue,— rthe  integrity  and 
courage  of  freedom.  Thefc  true  genuine 
fons  of  the  earth  are  invincible :  and  they 
furround  and  hem  in  the  mercantile  bodies  ; 
even  if  thefe  bodies,  which  fuppofition  I  to- 
tally difclaim,  could  be  fuppofed  to  be  difaf- 
fecled  to  the  caufe  of  liberty.  Of  this  ge- 
neral fpirit  exilting  in  the  American  nation  ; 
2  — for 


264  GENUINE   ABSTRACTS 

— for  fo  I  wifh  to  diftinguifh  the  real  and 
genuine  Americans  from  the  pfeudo-traders 
I  have  defcribed  —  of  this  fpirit  of  inde- 
pendence *,  animating  the  nation  of  Ameri- 
ca, I  have  the  moft  authentic  information ; 
— It  is  not  new  among  them;  it  is,  and 
has  ever  been,  their  eflablifhed  principle; 
their  confirmed  perfuafion ;  it  is  their  na- 
ture and  their  do6lrinet 

"  I  remember  fome  years  ago  when  the 
{tamp-aft  was  in  agitation,  converfing  in  a 
friendly  confidence  with  a  perfon  of  un- 
doubted refpeft  and  authenticity,  on  that 
fubjecl; ;  and  he  aflured  me,  with  a  certain- 
ty which  his  judgment  and  opportunities 
gave  him,  that  thefe  were  the  prevalent  and 
fteady  principles  of  America; — That  you 
might  deftroy  their  towns,  and  cut  them  off 

*  (i.  e).  oi  Ifgal  liberty; — the  independence  of  freemen^ 
contra-diftinguifhed  to  the  dependent  ftate  of  flaves.  It 
was  thought  neceffary  to  fpecify  this  idea,  left  Lord 
Chatham  mould  have  been  mifconceived  to  have  imputed 
an  original  wijb  of  disconnexion  from  this  country.  On  the 
contrary,  when  that  fatal  event  did  occur,  his  Lordfhip 
attributed  it  to  a  very  different  caufe  from  the  inclination 
of  America. — "  That  ftate  of  independency  into  which 
'.'  ywr  meafurts  hitherto  have  driven  her."—  See  nextfpeeca, 

frorn 


FROM    TWO    SPEECHES,    &C.         265 

from  the  fuperfluities,  perhaps  the  conveni- 
ences of  life ;  but  that  they  were  prepared 
to  defpife  your  power,  and  would  not  la- 
ment their  lofs,  whilft  they  have— what,  my 
Lords?— their  woods  and  their  liberty.  The 
name  of  my  authority,  if  I  am  called  upon, 
will  authenticate  the  opinion  irrefragably. 

"  If  illegal  violences  have  been,  as  it  is  faid, 
committed  in  America;  prepare  the  way, 
open  the  door  of  poflibility,  for  acknow- 
ledgment and  fatisfaclion :  but  proceed  not 
to  fuch  coercion,  fuch  profcription ;  ceafe 
your  indifcriminate  infliclions ;  amerfe  not 
thirty  thoufand — opprefs  not  three  millions 
for  the  fault  of  forty  or  fifty  ! — Such  feveri- 
ty  of  injuftice  mud  for  ever  render  incurable 
the  wounds  you  have  already  given  your 
colonies  ; — you  irritate  them  to  unappeafable 
rancour.— What  though  you  march  from 
town  to  town,  and  from  province  to  province ; 
though  you  fhould  be  able  to  enforce  a 
temporary  and  local  fubmiflion — which  I 
only  fuppofe,  not  admit — how  (hall  you  be 
able  to  fecure  the  obedience  of  the  country 
you  leave  behind  you  in  your  progrefs  ?— 
fx>  grafp  the  dominion  of  eighteen  hundred 

miles 


266  GENUINE   ABSTRACTS 

miles   of   continent,    populous    in   valour, 
liberty,  and  refinance ! 

"  This  refiftance  to  your  arbitrary  fyftem. 
of  taxation  might  have  been  forefeen : — It 
was  obvious  from  the  nature  of  things,  and 
of  mankind  ;  and  above  all,  from  the  whig* 
gifh  fpirit  flourifhing  in  that  country.  The 
fpirit  which  now  relifts  your  taxation  in 
America,  is  the  *  fame  which  formerly  oppo* 

*  Not  fo,  according  to  the  political  logic  of  admini- 
ilration  ;  which  would  prove  the  Tgryifmoi  *'  this  Ame- 
rican fpirit."  In  the  debate  lor  au  addrefs,  on  the  full 
day  ol"  the  feffion,  Odtober  26,  1775,  Mr.  Fox  urged, 
with  his  ufual  ability,  what  he  conceived  to  be  whig- 
principles,  confulting  the  good  of  the  governed,  rather 
than  the  governors;  principles  jealoufly  fccuring  the  rights 
of  the  people  againfl  every  encroachment  of  power  :  and 
thefe,  he  thought,  had  fome  relation  to  the  caufe  and 
conduct  of  America.  But  the  noble  Lord,  who  is  fome- 
times  roufed  by  that  gentleman's  manner  ot  fpeaking,  un- 
dertook to  prove  the  contrary. — "  Adminiftration  are  the 
•'  Whigs ;  and  the  Americans  are  Tories. — Adminifha- 
"  tion  wifh  to  maintain  the  power  of  parliament  ^  which  is 
<'  the  true  whig-principle. — The  Americans,  on  the  con- 
"  trary,  would  annihilate  the  authority  of  parliament,  but 
*'  profefs  themfelves  willing  to  obey  the  crewn: — the  per- 
*<  feet  defcriptionof  a  Tory !" — One  would  imagine,  from 
fuch  reafoning,  "  run  mad,"  (to  borrow  the  phrafe  of  a 
right  reverend  politician)  that  his  Lprdmip  had  iludied 
under  bis  Grace. 

fed 


FROM    TWO    SPEECHES,   &C,          267 

fed  loans,  benevolences,  and  (hip-money1 
in  England  :^the  fame  fpirit  which  called 
all  England  on  its  legs,  and  by  the  bill  of 
rights  vindicated  the  Englim  conftitution :  — * 
the  fame  principle  which  eftablifhed  the 
great,  fundamental,  eflential  maxim  of  our 
liberties,  that  no  fubjett  of  England  Jhall  be 
taxed  but  by  his  own  confent. 

"  This  glorious  fpirit  of  whjggifm  animates 
three  millions    in   America :  —  who  prefer 
poverty  with  liberty,  to  gilded  chains  and 
fordid  affluence ;  and  who  will  die  in  de- 
fence of  their  rights  as  men,  as  freemen* 
What  (hall  oppofe  this  fpirit? — -aided  by 
the  congenial  flame  glowing  in  the  breads 
of  every  whig  in  England,  to  the  amount,  I 
hope,  of  double  the  American  numbers  ? — 
Ireland  they  have  to  a  man.  In  that  country, 
joined  as  it  is  with  the  caufe  of  the  Colonies, 
and  placed  at  their  head,  the  diftinclion  I 
contend  for,  is  and  muft  be  obferved. — This 
country   fuperintends  and    controuls    their 
trade  and  navigation ;  but  they  tax  them-* 
felves.     And  this  diftinftion  between  exterr 
nal  and  internal  controul  is  facred  and  in- 
furmountable ;  it  is  involved  in  the  abftraft 

nature 


268  GENUINE     ABSTRACTS 

nature  of  things. — Property  is  private,  indi- 
vidual,   abfolute  :— ^ Trade  is  an  extended 
and  complicated  confideration  ; — it  reaches 
as  far  as  (hips  can  fail,  or  winds  can  blow ; 
it  is  a  great  and  various  machine  : — To  re- 
gulate the  numberlefs  movements  of  its  feve- 
ral  parts,  and  combine  them  into  effeft,  for 
the  good  of  the  whole,  requires  the  fuper- 
intending   wifdom  and    energy   of  the  fu- 
preme    power    in    the   empire.      But    this 
fupreme  power  has  no  effect  towards  inter- 
nal taxation;  for  it  does  not  exifl  in  that 
relation ; — there  is  no  fuch  thing,  no  fuck 
idea  in  this  conjiitution  as  a  fupreme  power 
operating  upon  property. — Let  this  diftinc- 
tion  then  remain  for  ever  afcertained  ;  taxa- 
tion is  theirs,  commercial  regulation  is  ours. 
— -As  an  American,  I  would  recognize   to 
England  her  fupreme  right  of  regulating 
commerce  and  navigation ;  as  an  Englifli- 
man  by  birth  and  principle,  I  recognize  to 
the  Americans    their  fupreme    unalienable 
right  in  their  property ;  a  right  which  they 
are  juftified  in  the  defence  of  to  the  laft 
extremity.     To  maintain  this   principle  is 
the  common  caufe  of  the  whigs  on  the  other 

fide 


FROM    TWO    SPEECHES,    &C. 

fide  of  the  Atlantic,  and  on  this  : — "  Tis 
liberty  to  liberty  engaged,"  that  they  will 
defend  themfelves,  their  families,  and  their 
country. — In  this  great  caufe  they  are  im- 
moveably  allied :  it  is  the  alliance  of  God  and 
nature — immutable,  eternal, — fixed  as  the 
firmament  of  heaven  ! — 

"  To  fuch  united  force,  what  force  (hall  be 
oppofed  ? — What,  my  Lords  ? — A  few  regi- 
ments in  America,  and  feventeen  or  eighteen, 
thoufand  men  at  home  !  The  idea  is  too  ridi- 
culous to  take  up  a  moment  of  your  Lord- 
fhips'  time. — Nor  can  fuch  a  national  and 
principled  union  be  refilled  by  the  tricks 
of  office,  or  minifterial  manoeuvre.  Laying 
of  papers  on  your  table,  or  counting  nofes 
on  a  divifron,  will  not  avert  or  poftpone 
the  hour  of  danger: — it  mud  arrive,  my 
Lords,  unlefs  thefe  fatal  a6is  are  done  away  ; 
it  mud  arrive  in  all  its  horrors,  and  then 
thefe  boaftful  minifters,  fpite  of  all  their 
confidence,  and  all  their  manoeuvres,  (hall 
be  forced  to  hide  their  heads. — They  (hall 
be  forced  to  a  difgraceful  abandonment  of 
their  prefent  meafures  and  principles  :  prin- 
ciples which  they  avow,  but  cannot  defend ; 

— meafures 


070  GENUINE     ABSTRACTS 

— meafures  which  they  prefume  to  attempt, 
but  cannot  hope  to  effectuate.  They  can- 
not, my  Lords,  they  cannot  ftir  a  ftep ; — • 
they  have  not  a  move  *  left ;  —  they  are 
check-mated. 

"  But  it  is  not  repealing  this  aft  of  parlia- 
ment, or  that  aft  of  parliament,  it  is  not  re- 
pealing a  piece  of  parchment,  that  can  re- 
ftore  America  to  our  bofom :  you  inuft  re- 
peal her  fears  and  her  refentments ;  and  you 
may  then  hope  for  her  love  and  gratitude. 
But  now,  infulted  with  an  armed  force, 
pofted  at  Bofton;  irritated  with  an  hoflile 

*  An  alluvion  to  the  game  of  Chefs.  The  King  is  the 
obje£V  of  the  game ;  and  therefore  the  moft  valuable, 
though  not  the  mod  powerful,  piece  on  the  board.  Check- 
mate is  that  fituation  where  he  is  fo  weakly 'fupported  by 
his  pieces,  or  fo  entangled  by  their  injudicious  difpofition, 
that  he  cannot  efcape.  This  danger  is  often  incurred  by 
expofing  himfelf  too  much,  and  taking  too  aftive  a  part  in 
the  game.  Vide  Philidor,  Analyfe  du  Jeu  des  Echecs. — 
It  is  certainly  a  noble  and  royal  paftime.  Charles  I.  was 
actually  playing  at  it  in  the  Scots  camp,  when  intelligence 
was  brought  to  him  of  their  final  refolution  to  betray  him. 
In  due  praife  of  the  royal  fteadinefs,  the  hiftorian  obferves, 
that  "  be  continued  his  game  wit  bout  interruption"  SeeHume's 
Mift.  Eng. — or,  as  Lord  Chatham  once  called  it  in  the 
Houfe  of  Lords,  "  hit  APOLOGY/^  the  Houfe  of  Stuart. 

array 


FROM    TWO    SPEECHES,    &C.         27! 

array  before  her  eyes,  her  conceflions,  if  you 
could  force  them,  would  be  fufpicious  and 
infecure;  they  will  be  irato  animo ;  ^  they 
will  not  be  found,  honourable  pa6lions  of 
freemen ;  they  will  be  dictates  of  fear,  and 
extortions  of  force. — But  it  is  more  than 
evident,  that  you  cannot  force  them,  princi- 
pled and  united  as  they  are,  to  your  unwor- 
thy terms  of  fubmiflion — it  is  impoflible: 
and  when  I  hear  General  Gage  cenfured 
for  inactivity,  I  muft  retort  with  indignation 
on  thofe,  whofe  intemperate  meafures  and 
improvident  councils  have  betrayed  him 
into  his  prefent  fituation. — His  fituation  re- 
minds me,  my  Lords,  of  the  anfwer  of  a 
French  general  in  the  civil  wars  of  France. 
— Monfieur  Conde  oppofed  to  Monfieur 
Turenne :  He  was  afked,  how  it  happened 
that  he  did  not  take  his  adverfary  prifoncr, 
as  he  was  often  very  near  him :  "  J'ai  peur," 
replied  Conde,  very  honeftly,  "J'ai  peur 
"  qu'il  ne  me  prenne ;"  I'm  afraid  he'll  take 
me. — 

"  When  your  Lordfliips  look  at  the  papers 
tranfmittcd  us  from  America  ;  when  you 
confider.  their  decency,  firmnefs,  and  wif- 

dom, 


272          GENUINE   ABSTRACTS 

dom,  you  cannot  but  refpeft  their  caufe, 
and  wifh  to  make  it  your  own.---For  myfelf,- 
I  mud  declare  and  avow,  that  in  all  my 
reading  and  obfervation— and  it  has  been 
my  favourite  ftudy ;  I  have  read  Thuci- 
dydes,  and  have  fludied  and  admired  the 
mafter-ftates  of  the  workU--that  for  folidity 
of  reafoning,  force  of  fdgacity,  and  wifdom 
of  conclufion  in  fuch  a  complication  of 
difficult  circumflances,  no  nation  or  body 
of  men  can  fland  in  preference  to  the  gene- 
ral Congrefs  at  Philadelphia.— I  truft  it  is 
obvious  to  your  Lordftiips,  that  all  attempts 
to  impofe  fervitude  upon  fuch  men,  to 
eftablifh  defpotifm  over  fuch  a  mighty  con- 
tinental nation,  mufl  be  vain,  muft  be  fataL 
We  (hall  be  forced  ultimately  to  retraEl;  let 
us  retracl  while  we  can,  not  when  we  muft. 
I  fay  we  muft  neceflarily  undo  thefe  violent 
oppreflive  a6ls  * :  they  mu/l  be  repealed; — 

you 

*  Afts  of  parliament  pafied  the  preceding  feflion ; — 
for  fhutting  up  the  port  of  Bofton  ;  altering  the  charter 
of  the  Maffachufet's  Bay,  &c.  The  noble  fpeaker's  pre- 
diftion  has  been  ftriftly  verified;  the  repeal  of  thefe  afts 
was  at  lujl,  after  three  years  fuccefslefs  war,  fent  out  as  a 
peace-offering  to  the  Congrefs  of  America: — whether 

with 


FROM  TWO  SPEECHES,  &C.         273 

you  will  repeal  them;  I  pledge  my f elf  for  it, 
that  you  will  in  the  end  repeal  them;  I  Jlake 
my  reputation  on  it : — /  will  confent  to  be, 
taken  for  an^diot,  if  they  are  not  finally  re* 
pealed.  Avoid  then  this  humiliating,  dif- 
graceful  neceflity. — With  a  dignity  becom- 
ing  your  exalted  fituation,  make  the  firft 
advances  to  concord,  to  peace,  and  to  hap- 
pinefs :  for  that  is  your  true  dignity,  to  act 
with  prudence  and  withjuftice. — Thatjy0w 
fhould  firft  concede,  is  obvious  from  found 
and  rational  policy.  —  Conceffion  comes 
with  better  grace  and  more  falutary  effect 
from  the  fuperior  power;  it  reconciles  fu- 
periorJty  of  power  with  the  feelings  of 
men ;  and  eftablifhes  folid  confidence  on 
the  foundations  of  affection  and  gratitude. 

"  So  thought  a  wife  poet  and  a  wife  man 
in  political  fagacity :  the  friend  of  Mecenas, 
and  the  eulogift  of  Auguftus. — To  him,  the 
adopted  fon  and  fucceflbr  of  the  firft  Cas- 
far,  to  him,  the  mafter  of  the  world,  he 

with  a  "  dignity  becoming  the  once  exalted  chara£er  of 
'*  this  country,  or  through  a  disgraceful  humiliating  ne- 
'*  ceflity,"— let  the  feelings  of  this  country  confefs. 

VOL.  i.  T  wifely 


-74  GENUINE    ABSTRACTS 

wifely  urged  this  conduct  of  prudence  and 
dignity;  "  Tuque  prior,  tu  parce;—projice 
tela  manu" 

"  Every  motive  therefore  of  juftice  and  of 
policy,  of  dignity  and  of  prudence,  urges 
you  to  allay  the  ferment  in  America, — by  a 
removal  of  your  troops  from  Bofton, — by  a 
repeal  of  your  a6ls  of  parliament, — and 
by  demonftration  of  amicable  difpofitions 
towards  your  Colonies.  On  the  other 
hand,  every  danger  and  every  hazard  im- 
pend, to  deter  you  from  perfeverance  in 
your  prefent  ruinous  meafures. — Foreign 
war  hanging  over  your  heads  by  a  flight 
and  brittle  thread : — France  and  Spain 
watching  your  conduct,  and  waiting  for  the 
maturity  of  your  errors ; — with  a  vigilant  eye 
to  America,  and  the  temper  of  your  Colo- 
nies, more  than  to  their  own  concerns,  be 
they  what  they  may. 

"  To  conclude,  my  Lofds :  if  the  Minifters 
thus  perfevere  in  mifadvifing  and  mifleading 
the  King,  I  will  not  fay  that  they  can  alienate 
the  affections  of  his  fubjefts  from  his  crown ; 
but  I  will  affirm  that  they  will  make  the  crown 

not 


FROM  TWO  SPEECHES,  &C.         2J  § 

not  worth  his  wear  ing. ---I  will  not  fay  that 
the  King  is  betrayed:  but  I  will  pronounce, 
that  the  kingdom  is  undone" 


The  Reader  will  recollecl  that  the  pre- 
ceding fpeech  was  made  on  Jan.  20,  1775. 
He  will  have  obferved  that  the  motion 
which  it  accompanied,  for  removing  his 
Majefty's  troops  from  Bofton,  was  urged  by 
the  Noble  Speaker  exprefsly  on  the  ground 
of  peaceably  accommodating  the  peace  with 
America.  He  will  remember  that  the  only 
ground  of  difpute  then,  was  the  taxation  of 
that  country  claimed  by  this;  the  attempted 
exercife  of  which,  had  'produced  a  riot  at 
Bofton.  The  Independence  of  America  was 
not  then  in  contemplation:  unlefs  in  the 
reveries  of  a  reverend  writer  on  the  fubjeft, 
who  maintained  a  propoiition,  memorable 
only  for  its  Angularity ;  "  that  the  Inde- 
"  pendence  of  America  would  be  a  benefi- 
"  cial  event  for  England."— To  the  Ameri- 
cans it  never  occurred,  unlefs  for  the  refuta- 
tion pf  fome  injurious  fufpicions,  by  they 
T  2  moft 


276  GENUINE    ABSTRACTS'  ' 

moft  folemn,  abfolute,  and  exprefs  difa- 
vowal. 

The  noble  Lord's  motion  was,  however, 
rejected :  and  hoftilities  commenced  at 
Lexington,  on  the  igth  of  the  following 
April. 

It  is  unneceflary  to  particularize  the  fub- 
fequent  events.  They  are  too  well  known, 
too  feverely  felt  by  every  friend  of  his  coun- 
try.—" Years  of  calamity,"  fatally  fulfil  the 
prophecy  of  Lord  Chatham.  The  Britifti 
empire  has  fuftained  the  "  immedicabile 
"  vulnus"  which  his  wifdom  would  have 
averted.  How  he  would  have  corrected 
the  diforder  at  its  crifis,  before  it  attained  its 
defperate  malignity,  will  be  feen  in  the  fol- 
lowing fpeech,  on  November  2oth,  1777. 
His  Majefty's  moft  gracious  fpeech  of  that 
day  is  prefixed ;  that  the  "  Confidence"  and 
"  Hopes'*  exprefled  in  it  by  his  Majefty's 
Minifters,  may  fairly  (land  in  contraft  with 
the  opinions  of  Lord  Chatham.  Let  hifto- 
ry  form  the  comment. 


HOUSE 


FROM  TWO  SPEECHES,  <%C.         2/J 

1 

HOUSE   OF   LORDS, 

Nov.  2Qtha  1777. 

jllllS  Majefty  opened  the  Seflion  with  the 
following  mofl  gracious  Speech  from  the 
throne. 

"  My  Lords  and  Gentlemen, 
"  It  is  a  great  fatisfaftion  to  me,  that  I 
can  have  recourfe  to  the  wifdom  and  fup- 
port  of  my  Parliament,  in  this  conjuncture, 
when  the  continuance  of  the  rebellion  in 
North  America  demands  our  moft  ferious 
attention.  The  powers  which  you  have 
entrufted  me  with,  for  the  fuppreflffon  of 
this  revolt,  have  been  mofl  faithfully  exert- 
ed; and  I  have  a  juft  confidence,  that  the 
conducl  and  courage  of  my  officers,  and  the 
fpirit  and  intrepidity  of  my  forces,  both  by 
fea  and  land,  will,  under  the  blemng  of  Di- 
vine Providence,  be  attended  with  fuccefs. 
But  as  I  am  perfuaded  that  you  will  fee  the 
neceflity  of  preparing  for  fuch  further  ope- 
rations 


2/8  GENUINE    ABSTRACTS 

rations  as  the  contingences  of  the  war, 
and  the  obftinacy  of  the  rebels,  may  render 
expedient;  I  am  for  that  purpofe  purfuing 
the  proper  meafures  for  keeping  my  land- 
forces  complete  to  their  prefent  eftablifh- 
ment;  and  if  I  mould  have  occafion  to  en- 
creafe  them,  by  contracting  any  new  en- 
gagements, I  rely  on  your  zeal  and  publick 
fpirit  to  enable  me  to  make  them  good. 

"  I  have  received  repeated  afTu ranees  from 
foreign  powers,  of  their  pacific  difpofitions  ; 
my  own  cannot  be  doubted:  but,  at  this 
time,  when  the  armaments  in  the  ports  of 
France  and  Spain  continue,  I  have  thought 
it  advifeable  to  make  a  confiderable  aug- 
mentation to  my  naval  force;  as  well  to 
keep  my  kingdoms  in  a  refpe&able  ftate  of 
fecurity,  as  to  provide  an  adequate  protec- 
tion for  the  extenfive  commerce  of  my 
fubjecls.  And,  as  on  the  one  hand,  I  am 
determined  that  the  peace  of  Europe  (hall 
not  be  difturbed  by  me,  fo,  on  the  other,  I 
will  always  be  a  faithful  guardian  of  the 
honour  of  the  Crown  of  Great-Britain. 


"  Gentlemen 


FROM   TWO   SPEECHES,  &C.         270 

"  Gentlemen  of  the  Houfe  of  Commons, 
"  I  have  ordered  the  eflimates  for  the 
enfuing  year  to  be  laid  before  you.  The 
various  fervices  which  I  have  mentioned  to 
you  will  unavoidably  require  large  fupplies: 
and  nothing  could  relieve  my  mind  from 
the  concern  which  I  feel  for  the  heavy 
charge  which  they  muft  bring  on  my  faith- 
ful people,  but  the  perfect  convi&ion  that 
they  are  necefTary  for  the  welfare  and  the 
eflential  interefts  of  my  kingdoms. 

<f  My  Lords  and  Gentlemen, 
"  I  will  fteadily  purfue  the  meafures  in 
which  we  are  engaged,  for  the  re-eftablim^ 
ment  of  that  constitutional  fubordination, 
which,  with  the  blefling  of  God,  I  will 
maintain  through  the  feveral  parts  of  my 
dominions.  But  I  (hall  ever  be  watchful 
for  an  opportunity  of  putting  a  flop  to  the 
effufion  of  the  blood  of  my  fubje&s,  and 
the  calamities  which  are  infeparable  from  a 
ftate  of  war.  And  I  flill  hope,  that  the 
deluded  and  unhappy  multitude  will  return 
to  their  allegiance;  and  that  the  remem- 
brance of  what  they  once  enjoyed,  the  re- 
gret 


2SO  GENUINE    ABSTRACTS 

gret  for  what  they  have  loft,  and  the  feelings 
of  what  they  now  fuffer,  uftder  the  arbitrary 
tyranny  of  their  leaders,  will  rekindle  in 
their  hearts  a  fpirit  of  loyalty  to  their  fove* 
reign,  and  of  attachment  to  their  mother- 
country  ;  and  that  they  will  enable  me, 
with  the  concurrence  and  fupport  of  my 
parliament,  to  accomplifh  what  1  fhall  con- 
fider  as  the  greateft  happinefs  of  my  life, 
and  the  greateft  glory  of  my  reign,  the  re-» 
ftoration  of  peace,  order,  and  confidence, 
to  my  American  Colonies." 

In  anfwer  to  his  Majefty 's  moft  gracious 
fpeech,  Lord  Percy  moved  their  Lordmips 
to  concur  in  an  Addrefs  in  the  following 
terms : 

"  That  they,  his  Majefty 's  moft  dutiful 
and  loyal  fubje&s,  the  Lords  fpiriiual  and 
temporal  in  parliament  affembled,  beg  leave 
to  return  his  Majefty  their  humble  thanks 
for  his  moft  gracious  fpeech  from  the 
throne  : 

"  To  offer  their  congratulations  to  his 
Majefty  on  the  encreafe  of  his  domeftic 
happinefs,  by  the  birth  of  another  princefs, 

and 


FROM  TWO  SPEECHES,  <&C. 

and  the  recovery  of  his  royal  Confort ;  who 
is  mod  highly  endeared  to  this  nation;  as 
well  by  her  Majefty  3s  eminent  and  amiable 
virtues,  as  by  every  new  pledge  of  fecurity 
to  our  religious  and  civil  liberties. 

"  That  they  are  duly  fenfible  of  his  Ma« 
jefiy's  goodnefs  in  recurring  to  the  advice 
and  fupport  of  his  parliament  in  the  prefent 
conjuncture,  when  the  rebellion  in  North-? 
America  (till  continues:  and  to  return  his 
Majefty  their  unfeigned  thanks  for  having 
communicated  to  them  the  juft  confidence 
which  his  Majefiy  repofes  in  the  zeal,  intre- 
pidity, and  exertions  of  his  Majefty 's  officers 
and  forces  both  by  fea  and  land:  but  at  the  fame 
time,  that  they  entertain  a  well-founded  hope 
of  the  important  fuccefies,  which,  under  the 
blefling  of  Providence,  may  be  expected  : 
That  they  cannot  but  applaud  his  Majefty 's 
unwearied  vigilance  and  wifdom,  in  recom- 
mending them  to  prepare,  at  all  events,  for 
fuch  further  operations  as  the  contingencies 
of  the  war,  and  the  o!  ftinacy  of  the  rebels 
may    render   expedient  : — That    they    are 
therefore  gratefully  fenfible  of  his  Majefty's 
confideration,  in  purfuing  the  meafures  ne- 

ceffary 


282  GENUINE    ABSTRACTS 

ceffary  to  keep  his  land-forces  complete  to 
the  prefent  eflablifhment ;  and  that  they 
owe  it  both  to  his  Majefly  and  themfelves 
to  fay,  that  they  (hall  chearfully  concur  in 
enabling  his  Majefly  to  make  good  fuch 
new  engagements  with  foreign  powers,  for 
the  augmentation  of  the  auxiliary  troops,  as 
the  weighty  motives  his  Majefly  has  flated, 
may  induce  him  to  contract. 

"  That  it  is  with  great  fatisfaclion  they 
learn,  that  his  Majefly  receives  repeated 
affurances  from  foreign  powers  of  their 
pacific  difpofitions ;  and  that,  with  hearts 
full  of  gratitude  and  admiration,  they  ac- 
knowledge his  Majefly's  humane,  fleady, 
and  dignified  conduft,  which  is  equally  well 
calculated  to  demonflrate  to  the  world,  his 
Majefty's  wifh  to  preferve  the  general  tran- 
quillity of  Europe,  and  his  determination  to 
maintain  the  honour  of  the  crown,  the 
fecurity  of  thefe  kingdoms,  and  the  com- 
mercial interells  of  his  fubjefts. 

"  That  they  thankfully  receive  his  Ma- 
jefly's declaration  of  perfeverance  now  pur- 
fuing,  for  the  re-eflablifhment  of  a  jufl  and 
conflitutional  fubordination  through  the 

feveral 


FROM   TWO  SPEECHES,  &C.         283 

Several  parts  of  his  Majefty's  dominions  ; 
and  beg  leave  to  aflure  his  Majefty,  that 
they  participate  the  defire  which  at  the 
fame  time  animates  his  royal  breaft,  to  fee 
a  proper  opportunity  for  putting  an  end 
to  the  effufion  of  blood,  and  the  various 
calamities  infeparable  from  a  ftate  of  war. 

"  That  the  conftant  tenor  of  his  -Majefty's 
reign  has  fhewn,  that  his  whole  attention  is 
employed  for  the  fafety  and  happinefs  of  all 
his  people  ;  and  that,  whenever  their  un- 
happy fellow-fubjecl:s  in  North-America 
(hall  duly  return  to  their  allegiance,  they 
fhall  readily  concur  in  every  wife  and  falu- 
tary  meafure  which  can  contribute  to  re- 
ftore  confidence  and  order,  and  to  fix  the 
mutual  welfare  of  Great-Britain  and  her 
Colonies  on  the  moft  folid  and  permanent 
foundations." 

LORD  CHATHAM.  "  I  rife,  my  Lords, 
to  declare  my  fentiments  on  this  moft 
folemn  and  fericus  fubjecl:.  It  has  impofed 
a  load  upon  my  mind,  which  I  fear,  nothing 
can  remove ;  but  which  impels  me  to  en- 
deavour 


284  GENUINE    ABSTRACTS 

deavour  its  alleviation,  by  a  free  and  u.nre* 
ferved  communication  of  my  fentiments. — . 
"  In  the  firft  part  of  the  addrefs,  I 
have  the  honour  of  heartily  concurring  with 
the  noble  earl  who  moved  it.  No  man 
feels  fincerer  joy  than  I  do,  none  can  offer 
more  genuine  congratulation  on  every  ac- 
ceflion  of  flrength  to  the  proteftant  fuccef. 
(ion-:  I  therefore  join  in  every  congratula. 
tion  on  the  birth  of  another  princefs,  and 
the  happy  recovery  of  her  Majefly. — But  I 
jnufl  flop  here-*my  courtly  complaifance 
will  carry  me  no  farther;—- J  will  not  join  in 
congratulation  on  misfortune  and  difgrace; 
---I  cannot  concur  in  a  blind  and  fervile  ad- 
drefs, which  approves  and  endeavours  to 
fanclify,  the  monflrous  meafures  that  have 
heaped  difgrace  and  misfortune  upon  us— » 
that  have  brought  ruin  to  our  doors.  This, 
my  Lords,  is  a  perilous  and  tremendous  mo- 
ment !  It  is  not  a  time  for  adulation ; — the 
fmoothnefs  of  flattery  cannot  now  avail—- 
cannot fave  us  in  this  awful  and  rugged 
crifis : — it  is  now  neceffary  to  inftrucl  the 
throne  in  the  language  of  truth. — We  muft 
difpel  the  delufion  and  the  darknefs  which 

envelop 
'3 


FROM  TWO  SPEECHES,  &C.         285 

envelop  it,  and  difplay,  in  its  full  danger 
and  true  colours,  the  ruin  that  is  brought  to 
our  doors. 

(f  This,  my  Lords,  is  our  duty ;  it  is  the 
proper  function  of  this  noble  aflembly,  fit- 
ting as  we  da  upon  our  honours  in  this 
houfe,  the  hereditary  council  of  the  Crown : 
-*-And  who  is  the  Minifter— where  is  the 
Minifter,  that  has  dared  to  fuggeft  to  the 
throne  the  contrary,  unconftitutional  lan- 
guage, this  day  delivered  from  it? — The  ac- 
cuftomed  language  from  the  throne  has 
been  application  to  parliament  for  advice, 
and  reliance  on  its  conftitutional  advice  and 
affiftance; — as  it  is  the  right  of  parlia- 
ment to  give,  fo  it  is  the  duty  of  the 
crown  to  afk  it>--but  on  this  day,  and  in 
this  extreme  momentous  exigency,  no  reli- 
ance is  repofed  on  our  conftitutional  coun- 
cils ! — no  advice  is  afked  from  the  fober  and 
enlightened  care  of  parliament !  but  the 
Crown  from  itfelf,  and  by  itfelf,  declares  an 
unalterable  determination  to  purfue  mea- 
fures—and  what  meafures,  my  Lords? — the 
meafures  that  have  produced  the  imminent 

perils 


286  GENUINE    ABSTRACTS 

perils  that  threaten  us,  the  meafures  that 
have  brought  ruin  to  our  doors. 

"  Can  the  Minifter  of  the  day  now  pre- 
fume  to  expeft  a  continuance  of  fupport,  in 
this  ruinous  infatuation? — Can  parliament 
be  fo  dead  to  its  dignity,  and  its  duty,  as  to 
be  thus  deluded  into  the  lofs  of  the  one,  and 
the  violation  of  the  other? — To  give  an 
unlimited  credit  and  fupport,  for  the  Jieady 
perfeverance  in  meafures ; — that  is  the  word 
and  the  conduct,  not  propofed  for  our  par- 
liamentary advice,  but  dictated  and  forced 
upon  us— in  meafures,  I  fay,  my  Lords, 
which  have  reduced  this  late  flourifhing 
empire  to  ruin  and  contempt! — "  But yef- 
"  terdayt  and  England  might  have  Jlood 
"  again/I  the  world; — now  none  fo  poor  to  do 
"  her  reverence" — I  ufe  the  words  of  a 
poet;  but  though  it  be  poetry,  it  is  not 
fiftion. — It  is  a  fhameful  truth,  that  not 
alone  the  power  and  ftrength  of  this  coun- 
try are  wafting  away  and  expiring,  but  her 
well-earned  glories,  her  true  honour,  and 
fubflantial  dignity,  are  facrificed.  France, 
my  Lords,  has  infulted  you ;  {he  has  encou- 
raged 


FROM  TWO  SPEECHES,  &C.         #87 

raged  and  fuftained  America: — and  whether 
America  be  wrong  or  right,  the  dignity  of 
this  country  ought  to  fpurn  at  the  officious 
infult  of  French  interference.  The  miniA 
ters  and  ambaffadors  of  thofe  who  are  called 
rebels  and  enemies,  are  in  Paris :  in  Paris, 
they  tranfaQ;  the  reciprocal  interefts  of 
America  and  France. — Can  there  be  a  more 
mortifying  infult? — Can  even  our  Minifters 
fuftain  a  more  humiliating  difgrace? — Do 
they  dare  to  refent  it? — Do  they  prefume 
even  to  hint  a  vindication  of  their  honour,  and 
the  dignity  of  the  ftate,  by  requiring  the  dif- 
miffal  of  the  plenipotentiaries  of  America? — 
Such  is  the  degradation  to  which  they  have  re- 
duced the  glories  of  England ! — The  people 
whom  they  affe&ed  to  call  contemptible  re- 
bels, but  whofe  growing  power  has  at  laft  ob- 
tained the  name  of  enemies ; — the  people  with 
whom  they  have  engaged  this  country  in 
war,  and  againft  whom  they  now  command 
our  implicit  fupport  in  every  meafure  of 
defperate  hoftility;— this  people,  defpifed  as 
rebels,  or  acknowledged  as  enemies,  are 
abetted  againft  you,  fupplied  with  every 
military  ftore,  their  interefts  confulted,  and 

their 


288          GENUINE  ABSTRACTS 

their  ambafladors  entertained,  by  your  inve- 
terate enemy ! — and  our  Minifters  dare  not 
interpofe  with  dignity  or  effeft. — Is  this  the 
honour  of  a  great  kingdom  ?  Is  this  the 
indignant  fpirit  of  England,  who,  "  but 
yefterday,"  gave  law  to  the  houfe  of  Bour- 
bon? My  Lords,  the  dignity  of  nations 
demands  a  decifive  conduct  in  a  fituation 
like  this.  Even  when  the  great  eft  prince 
that  perhaps  this  country  ever  faw,  filled 
our  throne,  the  requifition  of  a  Spanifh  ge- 
neral, on  a  fimilar  fubjecl;,  was  attended  to, 
and  complied  with ;  for,  on  the  fpirited 
remonftrance  of  the  Duke  of  Alva,  Eliza- 
beth found  herfelf  obliged  to  deny  the 
Flemiih  exiles  all  countenance,  fupport,  or 
even  entrance  into  her  dominions ;  and  the 
Count  Le  Marque,  with  his  few  defperate 
followers,  was  expelled  the  kingdom  : — hap- 
pening to  arrive  at  the  Brille,  and  finding  it 
weak  in  defence,  they  made  themfelves  maf- 
ters  of  the  place — and  this  was  the  founda- 
tion of  the  United  Provinces. 

"  My  Lords,  this  ruinous  and  ignomini- 
ous fituation,  where  we  cannot  aft  with 
fuccefs,  nor  fuffer  with  honour,  calls  upon 

us 


FROM  TWO  SPEECHES,  &C.         289 

us  to  remonftrate  in  the  ftrongeft  and  loud- 
eft  language  of  truth,  to  refcue  the  ear  of 
Majefty  from  the  delufions  which  furround 
it. — The  defperate  ftate  of  our  arms  abroad 

is  in  part  known No  man  thinks  more 

highly  of  them  than  I  do :  I  love  and  ho- 
nour the  Englifh  troops ;  I  know  their  vir- 
tues and  their  valour ;  I  know  they  can 
atchieve  any  thing — except  impombilities ; 
and  I  know  that  the  conqueft  of  Englim 
America  is  an  impofflbility.  You  cannot,  I 
venture  to  fay  it,  YOU  CANNOT  conquer 
America.  Your  armies  laft  war  effected 
every  thing  that  could  be  effected ;  and 
what  was  it  ? — It  coft  a  numerous  army, 
under  the  command  of  a  moft  able  Gene- 
ral *,  now  a  noble  Lord  in  this  Houfe,  a 
long  and  laborious  campaign,  to  expel  5000 
Frenchmen  from  French  America.  —  My 

Lords,YOU  CANNOT  CONQUERAMERICA. 

— What  is  your  prefent  fituation  there  ?  we 
do  not  know  the  worft  ;  but  we  know  that 
in  three  campaigns  we  have  done  nothing, 
and  fuffered  much.  Befides  the  fufferings, 

*    Sir  Jeffery  (now  Lord)  Amherft. 

VOL.  i.  u  perhaps 


GENUINE   ABSTRACTS 

perhaps  total  lofs,  of  the  Northern  force  *. — 
The  beft  appointed  army  that  ever  took  the 
field,  commanded  by  Sir  William  Howe,  has 
retired  from  the  American  lines  ; — he  was  ob- 
liged to  relinquim  his  attempt ;  and  with  great 
delay  and  danger,  to  adopt  a  new  and  diflant 
plan  of  operations. — We  fhall  foon  know, 
and  in  any  event  have  reafon  to  lament,  what 
may  have  happened  fince — As  to  conqueft, 
£herefore,  my  Lords,  I  repeat,  it  is  impofli- 
ble : — You  may  fwell  every  expence,  and  eve- 
ry effort  ftill  more  extravagantly ;  pile  and 
accumulate  every  afliftance  you  can  buy  or 
borrow ;  traffic  and  barter  with  every  little 
pitiful  German  prince,  that  fells  his  fubje&s 
to  the  fhambles  of  a  foreign  prince; — your 
efforts  are  for  ever  vain  and  impotent ; 
doubly  fo  from  this  mercenary  aid  on  which 
you  rely ;  for  it  irritates  to  an  incurable 

*  General  Burgoyne's  army.  The  hiftory  of  it  is  (hort. 
Mod  of  its  braveft  officers  fell ;  and  above  half  its  num- 
bers :  the  REST  furrendered  to  the  enemy  on  the  I7th  of 
Oft.  1777.  See  the  Gazettes.  The  account  of  this  total 
hfs,  as  the  noble  fpeaker's  prefcience  exprefled  it  on  the 
aoth  of  November,  arrived  in  England  in  the  beginning 
of  December. 

refentment, 


FROM  TWO   SPEECHES,  &C. 

refentment,  the  minds  of  your  enemies.  To 
over-run  them  with  the  mercenary  fons  of 
rapine  and  plunder ;  devoting  them,  and 
their  poffeflions,  to  the  rapacity  of  hireling 
cruelty  !  If  I  were  an  American,  as  I  am 
an  Englifhman,  while  a  foreign  troop  was 
landed  in  my  country,  I  never  would  lay 
down  my  arms — never — never — never ! 

"  Your  own  army  is  infe&ed  with  the 
contagion  of  thefe  illiberal  allies. — The  fpirit 
of  plunder  and  of  rapine  is  gone  forth  among 
them. —I  know  it  —  and  notwithstanding 
what  the  noble  Earl  *,  who  moved  the  ad- 
drefs,  has  given  as  his  opinion  of  our  Ame- 
rican army,  I  know  from  authentic  informa- 
tion, and  the  moft  experienced  officers,  that 
our  difcipline  is  deeply  wounded.  Whilfl 
this  is  notorioufly  our  finking  fituation, 
America  grows  and  flourifhes :  whilft  our 
ftrength  and  difcipline  is  lowered,  theirs  rifes 
and  improves. 

"  But,  my  Lords,  who  is  the  man,  that  in 
addition  to  thefe  difgraces  and  mifchiefs  of 
our  army,  has  dared  to  authorife  and  aflb- 

*  Lord  Percy. 

u  2  ciate 


'292  GENUINE    ABSTRACTS 

ciate  to  our  arms  the  tomahawk  and  fcalp- 
ing-knife  of  the  favage  ?  To  call  into  civi- 
lized alliance,  the  wild  and  inhuman  favage 
of  the  woods ;  to  delegate  to  the  mercileft 
Indians,  the  defence  of  difputed  rights  ;  and 
to  wage  the  horrors  of  his  barbarous  war 
againft  our  brethren?  My  Lords,  thefe 
enormities  cry  aloud  for  redrefs  and  punim- 
ment ;  unlefs  thoroughly  done  away,  it  will 
be  a  ftain  on  the  national  character — it  is  a 
violation  of  the  conftitution — I  believe  it  is 
againft  law It  is  not  the  leaft  of  our  na- 
tional misfortunes,  that  the  ftrength  and 
character  of  our  army  are  thus  impaired  ; — 
infe&ed  with  the  mercenary  fpirit  of  rob- 
bery and  rapine — familiarized  to  the  horrid 
fcenes  of  favage  cruelty,  it  can  no  longer 
boaft  of  the  noble  and  generous  principles 
which  dignify  a  foldier ;  no  longer  fympa- 
thize  with  the  dignity  of  the  royal  banner, 
nor  feel  the  pride,  pomp,  and  circumftance 
of  glorious  war, — "  that  make  ambition  vir- 
tue !" — What  makes  ambition  virtue  ? — the 
fenfe  of  honour.  But  is  the  fenfe  of  honour 
confiftent  with  a  fpirit  of  plunder,  or  the 
practice  of  murder? — Befides  thefe  mur- 
i  derers 


FROM  TWO  SPEECHES,  &C.         293 

derers  and  plunderers,  let  me  afk  our  mini- 
fters,  what  other  allies  have  they  acquired  ? 
What  other  powers  have  they  aflbciated  to 
their  caufe? — Have  they  entered  into  alli- 
ance with  the  Kingof  the  gypfes?— Nothing, 
my  Lords,  is  too  low  or  too  ludicrous  to 
be  confident  with  their  counfels. 

"  The  independent  views  of  America  have 
been  dated  and  aflerted  as  the  foundation 
of  this  addrefs — My  Lords,  no  man  wifhes 
more  for  the  due  dependence  of  America 
on  this  country  than  I  do.  To  preferve  it, 
and  not  to  confirm  that  ftate  of  indepen- 
dence into  which  your  meafures  hitherto 
have  driven  them,  is  the  objecl:  we  ought  to 
unite  in  attaining.  The  Americans,  con- 
tending for  their  rights  againft  arbitrary  ex- 
a&ions,  I  love  and  admire ;  it  is  the  ftruggle 
of  free  and  virtuous  patriots :  —  but  con- 
tending for  independency  and  total  difcon- 
neftion  from  England,  as  an  Englifhman,  I 
cannot  wifh  them  fuccefs ;  for,  in  a  due 
conftitutifmal  dependency,  including  the  an- 
cient fupremacy  of  this  country  in  regulat- 
ing their  commerce  and  navigation,  coniifts 
the  mtual  happinefs  and  profperity  both  of 

England 


294  GENUINE  ABSTRACTS 

England  and  America.  She  derived  abid- 
ance and  protection  from  us ;  and  we  reaped 
from  her  the  moft  important  advantages: 
Ihe  was,  indeed,  vthe  fountain  of  our  wealth, 
the  nerve  of  our  ftrength,  the  nurfery  and 
bafis  of  our  naval  power.- — It  is  our  duty, 
therefore,  my  Lords,  if  we  wifh  to  fave  our 
Country,  moft  ferioufly  to  endeavour  the 
recovery  of  thefe  moft  beneficial  fubjects : 
and  in  this  perilous  crifis,  perhaps  may  be 
the  only  one  in  which  we  can  hope  for  fuc- 
cefs  ;  for  in  their  negociations  with  France, 
they  have,  or  think  they  have,  reafon  to 
complain  : — though  it  be  notorious  that  they 
have  received  from  that  power  important 
fupplies  and  afliftance  of  various  kinds,  yet 
it  is  certain  they  expected  it  in  a  more 
decifive  and  immediate  degree  : — America  is 
in  ill  humour  with  France,  on  fome  points 
that  have  not  entirely  anfwered  her  expecta- 
tions : — let  us  wifely  take  advantage  of  every 
poflible  moment  of  reconciliation.  Befides, 
the  natural  difpofition  of  America  herfelf 
ftill  leans  towards  England*  to  the  old  habits 
of  connexion  and  mutual  intereft  that  united 
both  countries  ;  this  was  the  eftablifhed  fen- 

timent 


FROM  TWO  SPEECHES,  &C.         295 

timent  of  all  the  continent ;  and  ftill,  my 
Lords,  in  the  great  and  principal  part,  the 
found  part  of  America,  this  wife  and  affec- 
tionate difpofition  prevails :  and  there  is  a 
very  confiderable  part  of  America  yet  found 
— the  middle  and  the  fouthern  provinces ; 
fome  parts  may  be  factious  and  blind  to 
their  true  interefts ;  but  if  we  exprefs  a  wife 
and  benevolent  difpofition  to  communicate 
with  them  thofe  immutable  rights  of  nature, 
and  thofe  constitutional  liberties,  to  which 
they  are  equally  entitled  with  ourfelves  ;  by 
a  conduct  fo  jufl  and  humane,  we  (hall 
confirm  the  favourable,  and  conciliate  the 
adverfe :  —  I  fay,  my  Lords,  the  rights 
and  liberties  to  which  they  are  equally 
entitled  with  ourfelves,  but  no  more.  I 
would  participate  to  them  every  enjoyment 
and  freedom  which  the  colonizing  fubjecls 
of  a  free  flate  can  poifefs  ;  and  I  do  not  fee 
why  they  fhould  not  enjoy  every  fundamen- 
tal right  in  their  property,  and  every  origi- 
nal fubftantial  liberty,  which  Devonmire,  or 
Surrey,  or  the  county  I  live  in,  or  any  other 
county  in  England  can  claim  ;  referving  al- 
ways, as  the  facred  right  of  the  mother- 
country, 


296  GENUINE  ABSTRACTS 

country,  the  due  conftitutional  dependency 
of  the  Colonies.  The  inherent  fupremacy 
of  the  flate  in  regulating  and  protecting  the 
navigation  and  commerce  of  all  her  fub- 
je6ts,  is  neceffary  for  the  mutual  benefit  and 
prefervation  of  every  part,  to  conftitute  and 
preferve  the  profperous  arrangement  of  the 
whole  empire. 

"  The  found  parts  of  America,  of  which 
I  have  fpoken,  muft  be  fenfible  of  thefe 
great  truths,  and  of  their  real  interefts. 
America  is  not  in  that  ftate  of  defperate  and 
contemptible  rebellion,  which  this  country 
has  been  deluded  to  believe: — It  is  not  a 
wild  and  lawlefs  banditti,  who,  having 
nothing  to  lofe,  might  hope  to  fnatch  fome- 
thing  from  public  convulfions; — many  of 
their  leaders  and  great  men  have  a  great 
flake  in  this  great  contefl:  the  gentleman 
who  conducts  their  armies,  I  am  told,  has 
an  eftate  of  four  or  five  thoufand  pounds  a 
year:  and  when  I  confider  thefe  things,  I 
cannot  but  lament  the  inconfiderate  vio- 
lence of  our  penal  afts,  our  declarations  of 
treafon  and  rebellion,  with  all  the  fatal 
effects  of  attainder  and  confifcation. 

"  As 


FROM  TWO  SPEECHES,  &C.         297 

"  As  to  the  difpofition  of  foreign  powers, 
which  is  afferted  to  be  pacific  *  and  friend- 
ly, let  us  judge  my  Lords,  rather  by  their 
aftions  and  the  nature  of  things,  than  by  in- 
terefted  aflertions. — The  uniform  afliftance 
fupplied  to  America  by  France,  fuggefts  a 
different  conclufion: — The  mod  important 
interefts  of  France,  in  aggrandizing  and  en- 
riching herfelf  with  what  fhe  moil  wants, 
fupplies  of  every  naval  (lore  from  America, 
muft  infpire  her  with  different  fentiments : — 
The  extraordinary  preparations  of  the 
Houfe  of  Bourbon,  by  land  and  by  fea, 
from  Dunkirk  to  the  Streights,  equally 
ready  and  willing  to  overwhelm  thefe  de- 
fencelefs  iflands,  mould  roufe  us  to  a  fenfe 
of  their  real  difpofition  and  our  own  danger. 
Not  five  thoufand  troops  in  England  ! — 
hardly  three  thoufand  in  Ireland  ! — What 
can  we  oppofe  to  the  combined  force  of  our 
enemies? — Scarcely  twenty  (hips  of  the  line 
fully  or  fufficiently  manned,  that  any  admi- 
ral's reputation  would  permit  him  to  take 

*  See  the  King's  Speech,  page  a  78. 

the 


GENUINE    ABSTRACTS 

the  command  of* — The  river  of  Lifbon  in 
the  pofleffion  of  our  enemies! — The  feas 
fwept  by  American  privateers  :~— Our  chan- 
nel torn  to  pieces  by  them! — In  this  com- 
plicated crifis  of  danger,  weaknefs  at  home 
and  calamity  abroad,  terrified  and  infulted 
by  the  neighbouring  powers, — unable  to  aft 
in  America,  or  afting  only  to  be  deflroyed ; 
—where  is  the  man  with  the  forehead  to 

*  In  reply  to  the  noble  fpeaker's  aflertion  relative  to 
the  number  of  mips,  &c.  the  firft  Lord  of  the  Admiralty 
rofe  in  his  place ;  and  gave  their  Lordfhips  official  affur- 
once  "  that  thirty-five  mips  of  the  line  were  then  (Nov. 
"  20,  1777)  compleatly  ready  ;  that  /even  more  would 
**  be  ready  in  a  few  weeks;  in  all  FORTY-TWO:  and 
'?  that  an  admiral  of  the  moft  acknowledged  merit  (he 
"  then  faid)  and  of  the  higheft  reputation,  ADMIRAL 
"  KEPPEL,  was  ready  to  take  the  command." — In 
March  1778,  Admiral  Keppel  went  to  Portfmouth  to 
take  the  command.  He  found  "  but  six  SHIPS  ready" 
and  thofe  in  ill  condition. — See  defence  of 'Admiral  Keppel. 
— "  On  the  301)1  of  June,  twenty  /hips  of  the  line  were 
"  ready,  with  which  Admiral  Keppel  failed.  Thirfy- 
"  two  (hips  of  the  line  then  lay  in  Breft  water,  befides  an 
"  incredible  number  of  frigates." — Ibid.  The  Englifh 
fleet  were  forced  to  return,  from  this  vaft  fuperiority  of 
this  fleet  of  France. — "  A  firft  Lord  of  the  Admiralty,  ii' 
"  he  does  not  take  care  always  to  have  a  fleet  fuperior 
"  to  both  France  and  Spain,  defirues  to  lofe  bis  bead." —  • 
LORD  SANDWICH. 

promife 


FROM  TWO  SPEECHES,  &C.         299 

promife  or  hope  for  fuccefs  in  fuch  a  fitua- 
tion?  or,  from  perfeverance  in  the  meafures 
that  have  driven  us  to  it? — Who  has  the 
forehead  to  do  fo  ? — Where  is  that  man  ? — I 
fhould  be  glad  to  fee  his  face. 

"  You  cannot  conciliate  America  by  your 
prefent  meafures — you  cannot  fubdue  her  by 
your  prefent,  or  by  any  meafures. — What 
then  can  you  do  ?— You  cannot  conquer — 
you  cannot  gain — but  you  can  addrefs;  you 
can  lull  the  fears  and  anxieties  of  the  mo- 
ment into  an  ignorance  of  the  danger  that 
fhould  produce  them.  But,  my  Lords,  the 
time  demands  the  language  of  truth: — we 
muft  not  now  apply  the  flattering  unclion 
of  fervile  compliance,  or  blind  complai- 
fance.— In  a  juft  and  neceflary  war,  to 
maintain  the  rights  or  honour  of  my  coun- 
try, I  would  ftrip  the  fliirt  from  my  back  to 
fupport  it: — but  in  fuch  a  war  as  this,  un^ 
juft  in  its  principle,  imprafticable  in  its 
means,  and  ruinous  in  its  confequences,  I 
would  not  contribute  a  fingle  effort  nor  a 
fingle  milling. — I  do  not  call  for  vengeance 
on  the  heads  of  thofe  who  have  been  guilty 
— I  only  recommend  to  them  to  make  their 

retreat, 


£00  GENUINE    ABSTRACTS 

retreat, — let  them  walk  of; — and  let  them 
make  hafie,  or  they  may  be  aflured  that 
fpeedy  and  condign  punifhment  will  over- 
take them. 

"  My  Lords,  I  have  fubmitted  to  you, 
with  the  freedom  and  truth  which  I  think 
my  duty,  my  fentiments  on  your  prefent 
awful  fituation.  I  have  laid  before  you  the 
ruin  of  your  power,  the  difgrace  of  your 
reputation,  the  pollution  of  your  difcipline, 
the  contamination  of  your  morals,  the  com- 
plication of  calamities,  foreign  and  domeftic, 
that  overwhelm  your  finking  country. — 
Your  deareft  interefls,  your  own  liberties, 
the  constitution  itfelf,  totters  to  the  founda- 
tion.— All  this  difgraceful  danger,  this  mul- 
titude of  mifery,  is  the  monftrous  offspring 
of  this  unnatural  war.  We  have  been  de- 
ceived and  deluded  too  long  ; — but  let  us 
now  flop  (hort : — this  is  the  crifis,  may  be 
the  only  crifis*,  of s time  and  fituation,  to 

give 

*  It  cannot  have  efcaped  obfervation,  with  what  ur- 
gent  anxiety  the  noble  fpeaker  has  prefled  this  point 
throughout  his  fpeech ;  the  critical  necefllty  of  hfiantly 
treating  with  America.  But  the  warning  voice  was 

heard 


FROM  TWO  SPEECHES,  &C.         30! 

give  us  a  poflibility  of  efcape  from  the  fatal 
effe&s  of  our  delufions. — But  if  in  an  obfti- 
nate  and  infatuated  perfeverance  in  folly, 
we  meanly  echo  back  the  peremptory  words 
this  day  prefented  to  us,  nothing  can  fave 
this  devoted  country  from  complete  and 
final  ruin. — We  madly  rum  into  multiplied 
miferies  and  "  confufion  worfe  confounded." 
Is  it  poflible,  can  it  be  believed,  that 
minifters  are  yet  blind- to  this  impending  de- 
ftruftion  ?  I  did  hope,  that  inftead  of  this 
falfe  and  empty  vanity,  this  overweening 
pride,  engendering  high  conceits,  and  pre- 
fumptuous  imaginations,  —  that  minifters 
would  have  humbled  themfelves  in  their 
errors,  would  have  confefled  and  retracled 
them,  and  by  an  a6live  though  a  late  re- 
pentance, have  endeavoured  to  redeem 
them. — But,  my  Lords,  fince  they  had 
neither  fagacity  to  forefee,  nor  juftice  nor 
humanity  to  fhun,  thefe  oppreflive  calami- 
ties ;  fmce,  not  even  fevere  experience  can 

heard  in  vain:  the  Addrefs  triumphed:  parliament  ad- 
journed :  Minifters  enjoyed  the  feftive  recefs  of  a  long 
Chriftmas  : — and  America  ratified  her  alliance  with 
France. 

make 


gO2  GENUINE  ABSTRACTS 

make  them  feel,  nor  the  imminent  ruin  of* 
their  country  awaken  them  from  their  flu- 
pefaftion,  the  guardian  care  of  parliament 
mufl  interpofe.  I  mall  therefore,  my 
Lords,  propofe  to  you  an  amendment  to 
the  addrefs  to  his  Majefty,  to  be  inferted 
immediately  after  the  two  firft  paragraphs 
of  congratulation  on  the  birth  of  a  princefs ; 
— to  recommend  an  immediate  ceffation  of 
hoftilities,  and  the  commencement  of  a 
treaty  to  reftore  peace  and  liberty  to  Ame- 
rica, ftrength  and  happinefs  to  England,  fe- 
curity  and  permanent  profperity  to  both 
countries. — This,  my  Lords,  is  yet  in  our 
power;  and  let  not  the  wifdom  and  juftice 
of  your  Lordfhips  neglect  the  happy  and 
perhaps  the  only  opportunity. — By  the 
eflablifhment  of  irrevocable  laws,  founded 
on  mutual  rights,  and  afcertained  by  treaty, 
thefe  glorious  enjoyments  may  be  firmly 
perpetuated. — And  let  me  repeat  to  your 
Lordfhips,  that  the  ftrong  bias  of  America, 
at  lead  of  the  wifer  and  founder  parts  of  it, 
naturally  inclines  to  this  happy  and  confti- 
tutional  reconne&ion  with  you.  Notwith- 
Handing  the  temporary  intrigues  with 

France, 


FROM    TWO    SPEECHES,   &C.         303 

France,  we  may  ftill  be  afTured  of  their  an- 
cient and  confirmed  partiality  to  us. — Ame- 
rica and  France  cannot  be  congenial ; — there 
is  fomething  decifive  and  confirmed  in  the 
honeft  American,  that  will  not  aflimilate  to 
the  futility  and  levity  of  Frenchmen. 

"  My  Lords,  to  encourage  and  confirm 
that  innate  inclination  to  this  country, 
founded  on  every  principle  of  affeftion,  as 
well  as  confideration  of  intereft — to  reftore 
that  favourable  difpofition  into  a  permanent 
and  powerful  re-union  with  this  country — 
to  revive  the  mutual  ftrength  of  the  empire; 
again  to  awe  the  Houfe  of  Bourbon,  inftead 
of  meanly  truckling,  as  our  prefent  calami- 
ties compel  us,  to  every  infult  of  French 
caprice,  and  Spanifh  punctilio — to  re-eftab- 
lifh  our  commerce — to  re-aflert  our  rights 
and  our  honour — to  confirm  our  interefts, 
and  renew  our  glories  for  ever  (a  confum- 
mation  moft  devoutly  to  be  endeavoured! 
and  which,  I  truft,  may  yet  arife,  from 
reconciliation  with  America) — I  have  the 
honour  of  fubmitting  to  you  the  following 
amendment;  which  I  move  to  be  inferted 

after 


304  GENUINE    ABSTRACTS 

after  the  two  firft  paragraphs  of  the  Ad- 
drefs  :" 

"  And  that  this  Houfe  does  moft  humbly 
*'  advife  and  fupplicate  his  Majefty,  to  be 
"  pleafed  to  caufe  the  moft  fpeedy  and 
"  effe&ual  meafures  to  be  taken,  for  reftor- 
"  ing  peace  in  America ;  and  that  no  time 
"  may  be  loft  in  propofmg  an  immediate 
"  ceflation  of  hoftilities  there,  in  order  to 
"  the  opening  a  treaty  for  the  final  fettle- 
"  ment  of  the  tranquillity  of  thefe  invalu- 
"  able  provinces,  by  a  removal  of  the  un- 
"  happy  caufes  of  this  ruinous  civil  war; 
"  and  by  a  juft  and  adequate  fecurity  againft 
"  the  return  of  the  like  calamities  in  times 
"  to  come. — And  this  Houfe  defire  to  offer 
"  the  moft  dutiful  affurances  to  his  Majefty, 
*e  that  they  will,  in  due  time,  chearfully 
"  co-operate  with  the  magnanimity  and 
"  tender  goodnefs  of  his  Majefty,  for  the 
"  prefervation  of  his  people,  by  fuch  expli- 
*f  cit  and  moft  folemn  declarations,  and 
"  provifions  of  fundamental  and  irrevocable 
"  laws,  as  may  be  judged  necefiary  for  the 
"  afcertaining  and  fixing  for  ever  the  re- 

"  fpeftive 


FROM    TWO    SPEECHES,    &C.        305 

fpeftive  rights  of  Great-Britain  and  her 
Colonies." 


In  the  courfe  of  the  Debate,  Lord  Suffolk, 
fecretary  of  ftate  for  the  northern  depart- 
ment, undertook  to  defend  the  employ- 
jnent  of  the  Indians  in  the  war.  His 
Lordfhip  contended,  that,  befides  impolicy 
and  necejfity,  the  meafure  was  alfo  allow- 
able on  principle ;  for  that  "  it  was  per- 
"  feftly  juftifiable  to  ufe  all  the  means 
"  that  God  and  Nature  put  into  our  hands." 

"  I  AM  ASTONISHED!" (exclaimed 

LORD  CHATHAM  as  he  rofe) — "  fhocked 
—to  hear  fuch  principles  confefTed — to  hear 
them  avowed— in  this  houfe,  or  in  this  coun- 
try : —  principles  equally  unconstitutional, 
inhuman,  and  unchriftian ! 

"  My  Lords,  I  did  not  intend  to  have 
encroached  again  on  your  attention  ;  but  I 
cannot  reprefs  my  indignation — I  feel  myfelf 
impelled  by  every  duty  : — My  Lords,  we  are 
called  upon  as  members  of  this  houfe,  as 

VOL.  i.  x  men* 


306  GENUINE    ABSTRACTS 

men,  as  Chriftian-men,  to  protefl  againft 
fuch  notions  (landing  near  the  throne — pol- 
luting the  ear  of  Majefty  !— "  That  God  and 
Nature  put  into  our  hands  !" — I  know  not 
what  ideas  that  Lord  may  entertain  of  God 
and  Nature ;  but  I  know  that  fuch  abomi- 
nable principles  are  equally  abhorrent  to 
religion  and  humanity.  What!  to  attri- 
bute the  facred  fanclion  of  God  and  Nature 
to  the  maflacres  of  the  Indian  fcal ping- 
knife,  to  the  cannibal  favage  torturing,  mur- 
dering, roafting,  and  eating — literally,  my 
Lords,  eating  the  mangled  viclims  of  his 
barbarous  battles ! — Such  horrible  notions 
ihock  every  fentiment  of  honour; — they 
mock  me  as  a  lover  of  honourable  war,  and 
a  detefter  of  murderous  barbarity. 

'•'  Thefe  abominable  principles,  and  this 
more  abominable  avowal  of  them,  demand 
the  moft  decifive  indignation.  I  call  upon 
the  right  reverend  bench,  thofe  holy  mini- 
flers  of  the  gofpel,  and  pious  paftors  of  our 
church: — I  conjure  them  to  join  in  the 
holy  work,  and  vindicate  the  religion  of  their 
God.  I  appeal  to  the  wifdom  and  the  law 
of  this  learned  bench,  to  defend  and  fup port 

the 


FROM    TWO    SPEECHES,   &C.        307 

the  juftice  of  their  country.  —  I  call  upon 
the  Bifhops  to  interpofe  the  unfullied  fanc- 
tity  of  their  lawn  ;  —  upon  the  learned  Judges 
to  interpofe  the  purity  of  their  ermine,  to 
fave  us  from  this  pollution  :—  I  call  upon 
the  honour  of  your  Lordfhips,  to  reverence 
the  dignity  of  your  anceftors,  and  to  main- 
tain your  own  :  —  I  call  upon  the  fpirit  and 
humanity  of  my  country,  to  vindicate  the 
national  character.—  I  invoke  the  genius  of 
the  Conftitution  !—  From  the  tapeftry  that 
adorns  thefe  walls,  the  immortal  anceftor  of 
this  noble  Lord  *,  frowns  with  indignation 
at  the  difgrace  of  his  country.  —  Jn  vain  he 
led  your  victorious  fleets  againft  the  boafted 
Armada  of  Spain  ;  in  vain  he  defended  and 
eftablifhed  the  honour,  the  liberties,  the 
religion,  the  Proteflant  religion  of  this  coun- 
try, againft  the  arbitrary  cruelties  of  popery, 
and  the  inquifition  —  if  thefe  more  than  popifh 
cruelties,  and  inquifitional  practices  are  let 
loofe  among  us  ;  —  to  turn  forth  into  our 

*  Lord  Effingham.—  Lord  Effingham  Howard  was 
Lord  High  Admiral  of  England  againft  the  Spanifh  Ar- 
mada; the  dcftru&ion  of  which  is  represented  in  the 


x  2  fettlements, 


308  ,       GENUINE    ABSTRACTS 

fcttlernents,  among  our  ancient  connexions, 
friends,  and  relations,  the  mercilefs  cannibal, 
thirdi  ng  for  the  blood  of  man,  woman,  and 
child  !  to  fend  forth  the  infidel  favage, — 
againft  whom  ?  —  againfl  your  proteflant 
brethren  : — to  lay  wade  their  country — to 
defolate  their  dwellings,  and  extirpate  their1 
race  and  name ;  with  thefe  horrible  hell- 
hounds of  favage  war  ! — hell-hounds,  I  Jay, 
of  favage  war.  Spain  armed  herfelf  with 
blood-hounds  to  extirpate  the  wretched  na- 
tives of  America ; — and  we  improve  on  the 
inhuman  example  of  Spanim  cruelty — we 
turn  loofe  thefe  favage  hell-hounds  againfl 
our  brethren  and  countrymen  in  America, 
of  the  fame  language,  laws,  liberties,  and 
religion ;  endeared  to  us  by  every  tie  that 
fliould  Riiiclify  humanity. 

'•'  My  Lords,  this  awful  fubjecl;,  fo  im- 
portant to  pur  honour,  our  conditution,  and 
our  religion,  demands  the  mod  folemn  and 
effectual  inquiry :  and  I  again  call  upon 
your  Lordfhips,  and  the  united  powers  of 
the  (late,  to  examine  it  thoroughly  and  clc- 
cifively,  and  to  damp  upon  it  an  indelible 
fligrna  of  publick  abhorrence.  And  I  again 

implore 

2 


FROM     TWO     SPEECHES,    &C.          309 

implore  thofe  holy  prelates  of  oar  religion, 
to  do  away  thofe  iniquities  from  among  us. 
Let  them  perform  a  luilration  ; — let  them 
purify  this  houfe,  and  this  country,  from 
this  fin. 

"  My  Lords,  I  am  old  and  weak,  and  at 
prefent  unable  to  fay  more;  but  my  feelings 
and  my  indignation  were  too  ftrong  to  have 
faid  lefs. — I  could  not  have  flept  this  night 
in  my  bed,  nor  repofed  my  head  on  my 
pillow,  without  giving  this  vent  to  my  eter- 
nal abhorrence  of  fuch  prepoflerous  and 
enormous  principles." 


MISCEL- 


MISCELLANEOUS  POEMS. 


MISCELLANEOUS  POEMS. 


To  PORTIA  on  her  NATAL  DAY. 

IF  poetry  is  bed  infpir'd  by  love, 

And  amorous   numbers    moil    harmonious 

move. 

If  tender  feelings  form  the  tender  fong — 
Let  me  be  rank'd  the  tend'reft  bards  among. 
For  oh  !  not  Ovid  more  delighted  dwelt 
On  Chloe's  charms,  nor  more  enraptur'd  felt 
Their  foft'ning  pow'r— nor  Horace'  tender  lays 
More  truly  mov'd  in  Lydia's  claffic  praife ; 
Not  Cowley's  felf  more  amoroufly  own'd 
Fair   Amoret's    fway,    with   every    beauty 

crown'd ; 

Than  I  my  Fanny's  virtuous  charms  adore, 
Their  praife  confefs,  and  own  their  fofi'ning 

pow'r. 

— Tho'  my  untutor'd  mufe  in  vain  afpires 
On  youthful  wing  to  catch  the  rapt'rous  fires 

Which 


314  MISCELLANEOUS   POEMS. 

Which  warrn'd  their  glowing  fancy ;  yet  my 

theme 

Superior  (hall  infpire  a  purer  flame. — 
Come,  holy  Hymen!  vindicate  your  fway, 
And  teach  inferior  powers  to  obey : 
With  facred  drains  thy  votarifl  infpire. 
Duly  to  celebrate  thy  hallow'd  fire : 
Teach  him  to  fing,  that  Chloe's  wanton  arms, 
ThatLydia's  beauty,  and  fair  Amoret's  charms 
Without  thy  holy  fanclion,  wanted  pow'r ; 
— Inconftant  gew-gaws, — play-things  of  an 

hour : 
Teach  him  to  (hew  the  virtuous  joys  which 

blefs 
Thy  hallow'd  reign — pure  peace  and  happi- 

nefs : 

Teach  him  his  Fanny's  conduct  to  proclaim; 
— Her  conduct  and  thy  praifes  are  the  fame. — 
Divined  virtues, — genuine  growth  of  heav'n ! 
To  her  in  fulleft  excellence  are  given : 
Sincere  and  juft,  me  knows  not  to  deceive; 
Piercing  and  wife,  (he  knows  when  to  believe : 
Humane  and  foft,  fhe  feels  for  others'  woe  ; 
Gen'rous  and  free,  her  joy  is  to  beftow ; — • 
Gentle  and  mild,  (he  fears  to  give  offence, 
But  firm  and  bold,  in  honour's  juft  defence : 

Rare 


MISCELLANEOUS   POEMS.  315 

Rare  union  of  fuch  virtues !  happieft  he 
Who  calls  them  his,  in  fweet  fociety ! — 
Learn  hence,  ye  rakes ;. — the  greateft  good 

oflife 

Is  fuch  a  woman — fuch  a  virtuous  wife. — 
» — Oh  may  this  happy  morn  full  oft  return! 
Conftant  may  Hymen's  choiceft  torches  burn 
To  light  it  on  !  may  many  future  days 
Thus  happily  demand  my  grateful  praife ! 
— And  may  all-bounteous  Heav'n,    whofe 

gracious  power 
Form'd  thee  to  blefs,— (till  blefs  thy  latefl 

hour, 
Crown  thee  with  years,  with  affluence,  and 

eafe — 
Then  gently  waft  thee  to  eternal  peace ! 


To  Miss  CH— ~-  TTE  A— — N. 

JL  HO1  Friendfhip's  facred  name  is  oft  mif- 

us'd, 
Its  mafk  affum'd,  and  its  intent  abus'd ; 

Let 


MISCELLANEOUS   POEMS. 

Let  not  my  friend  miftruft  my  fimple  phrafe, 
Nor  think  that  flatt'ry,  which  is  barely  praife. 
As  the  kind  gard'ner,  with  unceafing  care. 
From  threat'ning  florins,  and  the  inclement 

air, 

frotefts  his  tender  plants — beneath  his  hand 
Complete  they  rife  and  flourifh  in  the  land-+ 
So,  if  in  early  youth Tome  feeds  of  worth 
Lay  in  my  mind,. thy  influence  brought  them 

forth ; 

Tho'  not  implanted,  they  were  rear'd  by  you, 
And  cherifh'd  by  your  nurture,  kindlier  grew; 
By  your  example  animated,  warm-'d, 
My  greener  youth  to  virtue's  path  was  form'd ; 
And  if  hereafter  in  maturer  days 
I  may  pretend  to  aught  that  merits  praife, 
>  Let  it  be  given  where  it  is  juftly  due, 
And  all  my  merit  be  deriv'd  from  you. 


MISCELLANEOUS   POEMS.  QIJ 

An    EPILOGUE 

Spoken  by  a  Young  Lady,  after  the  Perform- 
ance of  the  Tragedy  of  DOUGLAS,  at  a 
private  Theatre. 

1  aik  Mifs  Rofey's  pardon — 'tis  not  fo ; 

I  could  not  fure  fo  impolitely  go 

Without  a  curtTie— "  Plunge  i'th'  empty  air !" 

Lord,  how  it  makes  a  modern  widow  flare. 

Our  more  fubftantial — not  lefs  fatal — flights, 

Afpire  not  to  thofe  odious  rocky  heights  ; 

In  Pleafure's  lower  region  we  take  wing, 

Not  a  dead  Lord — a  loving  Slave's  the  thing. 

And  though  we  give  ourfelves  fome  "  empty 
airs," 

They're  not  from  rocks— but  boxes  above 
flairs. 

Such  is  the  modern  drama  of  the  time,. 

A  whimfy,  tragi-comic  pantomime  ; 

Where  clowns  and  changelings  net  the  fore- 
mod;  parts, 

And  where  Love's   plot !    alas  !  is   hands — 
not  hearts. 

But  hold, — fententious  fatire  ill  befeems 
A  Mifs,  juft,  at  your  fcrvice,  in  her  teens. 

Far 


I 

3'8  MISCELLANEOUS  POEMS. 

Far  more  delighted,  (he  with  rapture  tells, 
With  grateful  rapture,what  around  her  dwells. 
The  happy  fcenes,    where    "  Love   makes 

duty  light;" 

Where  fhines  confeft,  Matilda  of  to-night. 
Maternal  mines,  whilft  in  their  fphere  of  love, 
Her  little  fatellites  around  her  move. 
Bleft  with  her  bright  example,  we  afpire, 
To  catch  the  fparks  of  Virtue's  facred  fire. 
The  thought  that  elevates,  the  hope  that  glows 
With  lively  fympathy,  the  heart  that  knows 
No  other  pain,  than  other's  pains  create, 
No  purer  joy  than  friends  participate. 


A     PROLOGUE 

Spoken  at  the  opening  of  a  private  Theatre 
in  Ireland. 

VV  HILST  Shakefpeare's  name  our  fifler- 

nation  fills, 

Shall  we  not  write :  (hall  we  not  ufe  our  quills  ? 
Our  kingdom  boa  (Is  a  hero  as  divine, 
Swift  of  St.  Patrick's,  a  great  friend  of  mine. — • 

O  facred 


MISCELLANEOUS  POEMS. 

O  facred  (hade !  infpire  thy  humble  friend ; 
Let  not  thy  love  with  thy  exiftence  end. 
So  (hall  my  verfe  recount,  in  numbers  fit, 
Thy  humour,  drollery,  and  waggifh  wit. — 
With  gaping  mouth  how  have  I  lift'ning  flood, 
(Albeit  unufed  to  the  laughing  mood) 
When  you  would  complaifantly  condefcend 
To  crack  a  joke  and  bottle  with  your  friend ; 
Thou  firft  of  jokers !  glory  of  this  Ifle ! 
That  could  ft  even  me  *  provoke  fometimes 

to  fmile ! 

Since  thou  haft  left  us,  joy  and  joke  are  o'er, 
All  Ireland  weeps, — and  I  (hall  fmile  no 

more. — 

But  not  to  mirth  and  jeft  alone  confin'd, 
Thy  Country's  love  infpir'd  thy  noble  mind  : 
When  Wood  attempted  with  audacious  hand 
To  fpread  his  baleful  halfpence  o'er  the  land, 
Thy  watchful  genius  inftant  took  th'  alarm, 
And  crufh'd  the  traitor  with  revengeful  arm ; 

*  Mr.  Paragraph,  the  Speaker,  is  remarkable,  among 
other  things,  for  amoft  invincible  inflexibility  of  mufcles, 
from  which  he  was  never  known  to  deviate,  unlefs,  as  he 
fays  himfelfi  "  provoked  thereto  by  the  humour  of  the 
"  Dean." 

And 


32O  MISCELLANEOUS  POEMS. 

And  j uft  thy  vengeance ;  to  fuch  boldnefs  due; 
Sure  never  man  fuch  wild  ambition  knew ; 
To  hope  fuch  impofition  e'er  could  pafs ! 
In  Ireland  to  difperfe  hisfpurious  brafs! 
Where  every  day  the  true  ftands  full  confeft, 
Bright  in  each  forehead,  burnifh'd  on  each 

creft: 

But  foon  thy  genius  trac'd  the  bafe  allay, 
Andfent  the  coiner  penny-lefs  away. — • 
Such  wit  and  humour,  with  fuch  fenfe  com- 

bin'd, 

Perplex  and  puzzle  the  admiring  mind ; 
We  know  not  which  we  mould  moft  highly 

praife, 

Thy  mighty  talents— or  foft  winning  ways  ; 
Thy  fpirit  never  dies,  thy  wit  ne'er  flags, 
Thou  firft  of  Patriots !   and  thou   firft  of 

Wags! 


To 


MISCELLANEOUS   POEMS.  32! 

To  Mrs.  Bo  YD,  in  England,  from  H.  Bo  YD 
in  Bengal,  with  his  PICTURE, — 22^  of 

oa.  1785. 

IF  true  to  Nature,  imitative  Art 

Could  in  the  faithful  features  paint  the  heart, 

With  genuine  force  give  the  warm  wifh  to 

glow — 

The  conftant  figh  to  heave—the  tear  to  flow ; 
And  all  the  mix'd  emotions  fully  blend 
Of  lover,  hufband,  guardian,  father,  friend : 
Then  mould  this  canvas  proudly  claim  your 

care, 

For  truth  and  tendernefs  would  triumph  there. 
But  fince  no  Art  can  fuch  fenfations  trace, 
Since  even  Nature  hardly  gives  the  face 
All  that  the  heart  can  feel, — be  thine,  my 

love, 

Kindly  to  view  and  fondly  to  improve. 
And  as  you  firft  th'  Original  infpir'd 
With  real  paflion,  and  with  rapture  fir'd, 
So  let  the  Copy  meet  your  fav'ring  eyes, 
And  Sympathy  fupply  what  Art  denies. 


VOL.  i.  Y  On 


322  MISCELLANEOUS  POEMS. 

On  the  Performance  of  feletted  facred  Mu- 
siCK,/0r  the  Benefit  of  the  MALE  ASY- 
LUM, at  Madras. 

JTlEARD  ye  not  the  folemn  drain? 

Hark  ! — trie  aweful  founds  again ! 

Still  through  the  quiv'ring  air  they  float, 

Each  varied,  lengthen'd,  melting  note : 
Now  in  refiftlefs  majefty  they  roll, 
Now  thrilling  through  the  heart,  exalting 
now  the  foul. 

O  magic  charms,  whofe  potent  fway, 
Or  fires  to  rage,  or  melts  to  tears, 
Whofe  power  the  paffions  all  obey, 
Love,  hate,  joy,  grief,  warm  hopes,  chill 

r 

fears : 

Hail  mighty  power  of  all-commanding  fong! 

Sweet  as  the  vernal  breeze,  as  the  high  bil- 
low ftrong. 

When  from  thy  native  heavenly  fphere, 
Defcending  on  the  mortal  ear 
Thou  pour'ft  the  full  extatic  ftrain, 
Rapture  borders  upon  pain, — 

When 


MISCELLANEOUS   POEMS.  323 

When  from  the  awful  paufe— again  the  full 

notes  meet, 
Almoft  for  fenfe  too  flrong,  too  exquifitely 

fweet. 

Can  Mudck's  charms  more  powerful  move 

Than  tun'd  to  glory,  or  to  love  ? 

Than  in  warm  friendfhip's  generous  glow  ? 

Than  in  foft  pity's  tender  woe  ? 
Yes — a  fublimer  theme  our  ear  demands, 
And  the  beft  paflions  of  the  foul  commands. 

O  CHARITY  !  thou  Chriftian  grace! 

Parent  of  good  !  of  heavenly  race ! 

Uniting  in  thy  facred  call 

Love,  friendfhip,  pity,  glory, — all ; 
Lo  !  at  thy  foftering  fhrine,  with  uplift  hands, 
The  poor,  the  helplefs,  infant  orphan  Hands  ! 

Pious  Orgie-s  ftrike  our  ear  ! 

Angels  bow  from  heaven  to  hear ; 

Sound  again  the  hallow 'd  lays — 

Again  the  HALLELUJAHS  raife — 
To  notes  of  heavenly  rapture  touch  the  lyre, 
The  Orphan's  grateful  voice  (hall  fill  the  choir. 

END  OF   THE   FIRST   VOLUME. 


UC  SOUTHERN  REGIONAL  LIBRARY  FACIUTY 


A     000006413     9 


- 


