The night before Larry was stretched.
The boys they all paid him a visit ;
And bit in their sacks, too, they fetched,
They sweated their dads till they riz it :
For Larry was always the lad,
When a friend was condemned to the squeezer,
But he'd fence all the togs that he had
To help a poor friend to the sneezer,
And moisten his gab 'fore he died.
I'm sorry, now, Larry, says I,
To see you in this situation ;
'Pon my conscience, my lad, I don't lie,
I'd rather it had been my own station !
Och hone ! it's all over, says he,
For the neckcloth I'm forced to put on,
And by this time to-morrow you'll see
Your Larry will be dead as mutton,
Bekays why, my dear, my courage was good.
The boys they came crowding in fast,
They drew all their stools round about him j
Six glims round his trap-case were placed,
He couldn't be well waked without them !
I axed if he was fit for to die,
Without having duly repented ?
Says Larry, that's all in my eye,
It's only what gownsmen invented
To get a fat bit for themselves.
The cards being called for, they played,
Till Larry found one of them cheated ;
He made a smart stroke at his head,
(The boy being easily heated,)
Oh, by the holy, you teef,
I'll skuttle your nob with my daddle ;
You cheat me because I'm in grief,
But soon I'll demolish your noddle,
And leave you your claret to drink.
Then in came the priest with his book,
He spoke him so smooth and so civil ;
Larry tipped him a Kilmainham look,
And pitched his big wig to the devil ;
Then stooping a little his head,
To get a sweet drop of the bottle,
And, pitiful sighing, he said,
Oh, the hemp will be soon round my throttle,
And choke my poor windpipe to death.
So moving these last words he spoke,
We all vented our tears in a shower ;
For my part, I thought rny heart broke,
To see him cut down like a flower.
On his travels we watched him next day,
Oh, the hangman, I thought I could kill him j
Nor one word poor Larry did say,
Nor changed till he came to King William,
Then, my dear, his colour turned white.
When he came to the nubbling chit,
He was tucked up, so neat and so pretty ;
The rumbler jogged off from his feet,
And he died with his face to the city !
He kicked, too, but that was all pride,
For soon you might see 'twas all over ;
Soon after the noose was untied,
And at darkee we waked him in clover,
And sent him to take a ground sweat.